{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V19 191-20","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v19_191-20.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V19 191-20","mylang":"de"}
J O U R N A L
OF THE
iety for Psychical Research
VOLUME XIX
1919—1920
For Private Cirailatio7i among Members
and Associates only
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
All rights 7-eserved
No. CCCLI.—Vol.; XlX,
» » A t 1 3 >
Januarv, 1919.
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Notice of Meeting, 1
New Jlembers and Associates, - 2
Meeting of the Council, 3
Cases, , 3
Correspondence, 10
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On FRIDA F, JANUARY i\st, 1919, at 4.30 p.ui.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" A Report on the Trance-Phenomena
oi Mrs. Leonard
"
WILL BE KEAD BY
Mrs. W. H. SALTER.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting, Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
196030
Journal of 'Sacif/t.-iL ^or:.P-py:dhi/;&^ Jax., i919.
NEW- IvtEMBKE^ ; AND -
iSS'OCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Agar, Mrs. J. S., The Berkeley Hotel, Piccadilly, London, W, 1.
Beckett, W. N. T., D.Sc, Lieutenant R.K., c/o Messrs. Stilwell
and Son, 4i' Pali Mall, S.W.
Clowes, Major G. E., 42 St. James's Place, London, S.W. 1.
FitzGeraid, The Hon. Mrs. Eustace, 15 Nevillu Street, Onslow
Square, London, S.AV. 7.
Flude, Mrs., Glyn House, Aigyle Road, Bognor,
Gould, Mrs., 8 Elsham Road, London, W. 14.
Hayes, Chas. F., 38 Park Road, Rugby.
Howell, Mrs., fithy, Lostwithiel, Cornwall.
Malda, Luis A., 120 Broadway, New York City, U.S.A.
Mather, Mrs., Laugliolm Bridge Cottage, Lowick, near Uiverston.
Miidmay, The Hon. Mrs. St. John, 121 Mount Street, London, W.
Moore-Brabazon, Lieut.-Colonel J. T. C, 1 1 Ennismore Gardens,
London, S.W, 7. _
Newbold, Captain Eric, R.E., Beach Brow, Deid.
Newbold, Mrs. Eric, Beach Brow, Deal.
Spencer, H. H. F. E., 58 Hornsey Lane, London, N. 6.
Wiliock, Mrs. C. J., I^lderton Lodge, Thorpe Market, Norwich.
Alldkidge, L). H. S., Mar.sa Scala, Blenkarne Road, Wandsworth
Common, London, S.W.
Alldridge, Mrs. D. H. S., Marsa Scala, Blenkarne Road, Wandsworth
Common, London, S.W.
Babcock, Mrs. Bernik, 512 Palm Street, Little Rock, Arkansas,
U.S.A.
Beckett, Mrs. Clifford, 111 Iverna Court, Kensington, London,
W. 8.
Candler, Miss M. I., Norton Hall, Campden, Glos.
Chadwick, Mrs. Ellis, St. Moritz, Parkstone, Dorset.
Clay, The Hon. Mhs., 11 Lite Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
De Gr.4M0nt, Count A., D.Sc, 179 Rue de I'Universite, Paris,
France.
Franklin, Tnii Hon. Mrs., 50 Porchester Terrace, London, W. 2.
Glasson, J. W., I.C.S., 51 St. George's Road, Hariogate.
Job, H. S., c/o The National Bank of Egypt, Khartoum, Sudan.
Jan., 1919. New Members cmd Associates. 3
Laverton, Major H. S., Leighton, Westbnry, Wilts.
PKRROrr, D. F. M., 24 Bridge Road, Worthing.
Shkldon, Mlss Mary, Duke's School, Alnwick, Northumberland.
Silvester, Captain E. S., 27 St. John's Hill, Clapham Junction,
London, S.W. 11.
Walker, Mrs. Claude, Rupert's Rest, Great Glenn, Leicester.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
Tfie 158th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, December 12th, 1918, at
•4.30 p.m., Sir Lawrence Jones in the chair. There were also
present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William Barrett, Rev. M.
A. Bayfield, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, Mr.
Sydney C. Scott : also Mrs. Salter, Editor, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Sixteen new Members and sixteen new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for October and November, 1918,
were presented and taken as read.
CASES.
I. Apparition at the Time of Death.
L. 1220.
This case was first brought to our notice by Miss H. E.
Macklin, who has been an Associate of the Society for some
years, in the following letter :
June 26, 1918.
My nephew, 2nd Lieut. David Macklin, was killed near Albert,
March 27th [1918], his mother receiving the news from the War
Office on April 3. On the night March 27-28 (within a few hours
of his death), she saw him (whether in sleep or not is doubtful),
and believed it to be an intimation of his death. She made
no written record at the time, but spoke of it that day to her
sister and her servant.
a2 •
4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1919.
It is an interesting point tliat she saw him dressed in a way
wliich surjirised and puzzled Jier, but which seems to have been
correct. We could probably make certain.
Helen B. Macklin.
On July 2, 1918, Miss Macklin called at the S.P.R. Rooms
and save the Secretary further particulars in regard to the
case. As a result of this interview she kindly expressed her
willinoness to collect the necessary evidence.
A statement from the percipient, Mrs. Macklin, was received
a few days later, as follows :
'
White Wood Corner, Sandy.
July 5, 1918.
My sister-in-law has asked me to write to you about an im-
pression 1 had of my son coming to me about the time of his
deatli
.
I did not make any note of it at the time, but I know the
date, because I spoke of my impression next day to a sister who
came to visit me that day and to a servant who came home
the same afternoon, March 28th.
When the German offensive began on March 21st, I was
anxious about my son, because he was (2nd Lieut, in the 4th
Bedfordshire), as I believed, somewhere in the neighltourliood of
Arras.
On the night of the 27th March or in the early hours of the
28th (I don't know the time), I had what I can only describe
as a waking dream. I mean that it did not seem just an
ordinary dream to me.
When I got uj) on the Thursday morning it was so vivid that
it haunted me, and I spoke of it, as I said, on that day.
It seemed that I felt or heard footsteps along the verandah
outside my bedroom window (I live in a bungalow), and that I
ruslied out knowing the steps were my boy's. (Bodily I did not
leave my bed.)
I seemed to see him with a " tin hat" and his jmck with webbing
equi])ment, and my general feeling was great dismay tliat he
should be in ''
Tommy's kit," and I exclaimed, " Oh, David boy,
you have never disgraced your officer's uniform and had to go
back to Tommy's clothes." '
'
'
(1 am i-ather troubled at repeating this, because it almost
seems tn iin])ly that 1 h;id doubts of my boy, which T certainly
Jan., 1919. Gases. 5
had iiot. He was a very dear sou and brother, and had got
on splendidly as Intelligence officer; he was a most hapjiy and
very keen soldier, and letters from his senior officers and men
testify to his efficiency and courage, as well as to his thoroughly
good and useful work.)
He passed as in a flash and I can't say that he looked at
me, it was more a feeling of knowing he was there. From that
time I expected bad news of him and I was not surprised to get
a telegram from the W.O. on the 3rd April, to tell me that my
son had been killed in action on March the 27th.
1 think that the dream or impression, whichever it Avas, haunted
me all the more, because on the last evening of my son's leave
before he returned to France on Jan. 31, I was helping him to
pack, and naturally there was one thought uppermost, though we
were both quite cheerful. I said to him, If what we can't
help thinking about should happen, will you try to come to me ?
"
I He did not say anything, but he would always try to do any-
thing he could that I asked him, and I believe if it were in
his power that he would have willed to come to me at the time
of his death.
On Friday, April 5th, two of my other sons came home. I
was talking to them about my impression of their brother's
coming to me and my trouble that he should be wearing Tommy's
clothes. And they both said, "That is how he would have
seemed to you."
I think that is all I can tell you, and it does not seem very
much, but mv sister-in-law asked me to write.
Marian M. Mauklin.
Y
After making this statement Mrs. Mackliii wrote to her
sister and to the servant to whom she had mentioned her
experience before it was verified to obtain their corroboration.
We quote her letters below to show that her enquiries \\'ere
couched in quite general terms. .
Letter from Mrs. Macklin to Lizzie Reynolds.
Do you remember when you came home for Easter, my teUing
you about a sort of dream I had had about Master David ^
I have been asked if you would mind writing down what yon
remember of what I told you.
If you. don't remember,, never mind, but if you do remember
6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jak., 1919.
anything, just state what \ou can. Give your reason for re-
membering the date.
To this letter Mrs. Mackliu received the following reply :
August 13, 1918.
Mrs. Macklin has asked nic to write what I remember concerning
the dream she had of her son, Mr. David Macklin. On March
28th Mrs. Macklin related to me, how during some period of the
night of March 27th she saw in a dream Mr. David running
along the verandah in his tin helmet and private's uniform, when
she exclaimed :
" Oh, David, what have you done to disgrace
yourself?" -The following Wednesday [April 3] Mrs. Macklin
received a telegram stating her son had been killed in action
on Wed.. March 27th. L. Reynolds.
P.S.—I am quite certain it was March 28th Mrs. Macklin
spoke to me of her dream, as I had been away several weeks,
and returned home on that date to spend Easter.
Letter from Mrs. Macklin to Miss Bridgman.
I have been asked if you would write an account of what
you remember of my telling you about my impression or dream,
or whatever it may have been, of dear David on the day that
you came to White Wood Corner in March. Possibly you may
not remember anything. I don't want to remind you of any
details or give you leads. But if you can write anything clearly,
I want to send it to the tS.P.R.
Miss Bridgniau replied to this letter as follows :
^
4 Sr. Stephen's Road,
Bayswater, W. 2.
" I have been asked by my sister, Mrs. Macklin, to write what
I can remember of what she told me of her dream or vision
on the 27th-28th March this year.
I can state that these were her words as nearly as possible
:
'
I have a queer feeling about my David this morning. Last
night I saw him so clearly, he seemed to come suddenly round
the corner of the verandah, rushing, and in a great hurry dashed
past me. He seemed to be dressed in an ordinary Tommy's
uniform, with " tin helmet." I said, " Oh, David, you have done
iMiss Bridgman 's statement, which is not dated, was written in August,
1918, but by an oversight was not sent to the S.P.R. until November.
Ja.v., 1919. Gases. 7
nothing to disgrace your uniform as an officer." He did not
reply, but disappeared to the right of the front of the bungalow.'
I went to visit my sister on Thursday, March 28th, and it
was the day that I arrived that she told me of her dream."'
H. M. Bridgman.
In reply to a further enquiry Mi's. Macklin informed us
that she had never had a similar impression or any other
experience of psychical interest that she could recall.
The statement of the two witnesses may be held to establish
the fact that Mrs. Macklin had this experience during the
night immediately following the death of her son at the Front
and before any intimation of his death could possibly have
reached her by normal means. The experience appears to
have been in the nature of an unusually vivid dream. The
fact that Mrs. Macklin had been in special anxiety about her
son for some days weakens the evidence, and if the case
stood alone, we might conclude that the close coincidence in
time between the mother's dream and the son's death was
due to chance. But since the case belongs to a type con-
cerning which a large amount of evidence has akeady been
put on record, it seems likely that the dream originated in
a telepathic impression.
With regard to Mrs. Macklin's impression that her son was
in a private soldier's uniform. Lieut. Macklin's body was never
recovered, and since many of those with him have been killed
it has not been possible to obtain definite information on
this point. But it is a common thing for officers when they
go into action to be so equipped as to be practically indistin-
guishable from private soldiers.
We are indebted to Mrs. and Miss Macklin for their permis-
sion to use names.
11. Coincidental Auditoey Hallucixatiox.
L. 1221.
The following case of apparent telepathy we have received
through the kindness of Mr. F. C. Constable of Wick Court,
near Bristol, a Member of the Society. He writes :
The two statements and letter given below speak for them-
selves. Dr. Beavis, IVIrs. S. Ashley and Miss Dodd,—a daughter
8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jav., ioi9.
of the late Major Dodd,—are all well known to me jJersonally.
Miss Dodd's statement was sent me by post. At the time of
the accident she was in residence with Mrs. 8. Ashley. Mrs. S.
Ashley's statement was made by her in my absence. Her endorse-
ment on Miss Dodd's letter was made in my presence.
F. C. Constable.
23j-(/ Oct. 1918.
: .
HI(li oneid of Miss Dodd.
' -
Parsoxnagk House,
LlDDINGTON, NK. SwlNDON, Od. \7th.
Dear Mr. Constable,—In reply to your note this is as nearly
as I remember what passed between Mrs. Ashley and myself on
the day Arthur met with his accident. I missed him at his
usual dinner hour, but his mother then told me that he did
not always come home at that time. After dinner I retired as
usual to my little sitting-room and Mrs. Ashley to her duties
at the back of the house. In about an hour's time I was sur-
prised to hear her call out, " Is that you Arty ? " and getting
no reply she came into my room saying " Have you seen any-
thing of Arthur ?
" I said " No, I have not." She then seemed
very surprised, saying, " Well, I heard him call out '
Ma,' (a pet
name for his mother) as plainly as I have ever heard him, and
if that was not his voice I have never heard it." I remarked
that it was very curious, and she then added, " I hope there's
nothing the matter with him. '
Seeing that she was much
agitated I tried to soothe her and said, " Oh ! he will be home
all right presently." This was all we said to each other and
Mrs. Ashley then went away, but soon after I heard a knock
at the door and some one said, " No answer," then I heard
Mrs. Ashley cry out and on going to her to see what had
happened she put a letter in my hand which she had just received
from the works telling her of her son's accident. I think this
is all you will want to know, and hope I have made it plain
enough. I may add that I have been much impressed by such
a clear premonition ' of the sad event.
'•
C. A. DoDl^.
'Mr. Constable informs us, in reply to enquiries, tbat he has "not the
slij^htest doubt [Miss Dodd] used the term 'premonition' merely for 'abnormal
occurrence.' "—that is not as implying that Mrs. Ashley's experience preceded
the accident. - -
Jan., 1919. Cases. 0
Endorsement on the ahove hfi Mrs. Ashley.
I have read this letter and all therein stated is correct. I never
heard my son's voice clearer in ray life.
, . . M. Ashley.
Croft Cottage, Wick, ^ ' .
Bristol, Oct. 22)1(1, 1918. ' '
'
3frs. Ash/ei/'s own Statement.
At the honr of the accident I distinctly heard the boy call me.
I said " Arthur, is that you ? Having no answer I said, " Is
that Arthur, Miss Dodd ?
" She said, What, is Arthur come
home ?
" I said, " I distinctly heard him call me. I do hope
nothing has happened to him." She said, " I hope not."
On Friday afternoon, Sept. 6th, at 3. .30, I \va.s in the back
kitchen wiping my hands. Both back and front doors were
open ; it was about 3.30 the accident happened, and the distance
is about 1 mile from the house.
M. Ashley.
Croft Cottage, Wick,
Bristol, Oct. nth, 1918. "
_
Statement hj Dr. Beams, Manager of the ivorhs where the
, accident occurred.
WjCK, NKAR Bristol, Oct. 25rd, 1918.
The accident happened at about 4 p.m. on Sept. 6th. I
myself took the lad, whose right arm was crushed, to the hosjiital
at Cosham, and he remained conscious from the time of the
accident up to the time of my handing him over to the hospital
authorities.
Charlks Beavis.
,= QUERY—COINCIDENCE ? OR AVHAT ?
We are indebted to Dr. Hereward Carrinaton for the following
letter describing a curious incident which it is difficult to class.
The writer, he tells us, is known to him personally, and he
believes him " to be a very good and reliable '
witness.' " .
Nkw' York, Jan. 2Qth, 1918.
I had arrived in Boston expecting a very important letter to
meet me there. It did not arrive,
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. .Tax., 1919.
So, after two weeks waitino- there, I prepared to leave for New
York. T was living at the Vendome Hotel, where each room-
door contains a plate of ground glass.
I was seated under a light near the door, when T saw what
seemed to be the shadow of an arm and hand sweep by the
glass on the outside. I opened the door, but the corridor was
empty.
Then I returned to my seat and took up my book.
Then a piece of furniture at my right, something like a chest
of drawers, began to stir and creak, as do articles on a ship
when the waves are high.
Wondering what could cause such a demonstration, I rose and
pushed the furniture aside to ascertain what was causing the
disturbance. And there, on the floor, and until then completely
hidden by that piece of furniture, was the missing letter !
It had been pushed under the door by a bell-boy and pushed
so hard that it had disappeared under the article of furniture.
But for the moving and creaking of the furniture my attention
would not have been called to it, and I would not have received
the letter. I have no explanation to offer ; had not then, nor
have I since, made any pretence of looking into " the Occult
Sciences."
I simply state the incident as it occurred.
W. A. Whitecar.
COREESPONDENCE.
To Ihe Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
WiNDLKSHAM, CllOWEOROIJClH,
Sussex, November. 1918.
Dear Madam,- On the morning of April 4th, 1917, I woke
up with a strong feeling that information of importance had
been conveyed to me in my sleep. I had a feeling also that it
was of a consoling nature. I could only remember one word,
however, Piave. It rang in niy liead, Piave ! Piave ! It was
as though it were .some keyword, and if I could retain that, I
.should have the essence of the message.
No doubt in my reading I mvist have seen the word, and on
my visit to the Italian front I had actually passed over the
river, but I had retained the names of none of the many streams,
Jan., 1919. Correspondence. 11
save only the Isonso, upon which the war was at that time
being waged. Thus Piave conveyed nothing to vtxy mind. I
was so impressed, however, that I went at once into my study
and looked up the index of my Atlas. By this reference J
discovered that the name was that of a river about fifty miles
in the rear of the Italian front, which was at that time victori-
ously advancing. I could imagine few more unlikely things
than that the war would be transferred to the Piave. None
the less I was so impressed by my dream that I drew up a paj^er
at once, under the date April 4, 1917, in which I stated that I
knew some great event of the war would centre on the Piave.
This was witnessed that morning by two witnesses. In view of
my feeling of elation on waking I took it that this event would
be favourable, tho' how a favourable event couid occur fifty miles
in the rear was more than I could understand.
It is a matter of history how six months later the Italian
army was driven from its positions. Whilst it was in retreat
I sent a sealed envelope to the S.P.R. with an account of my
dream. The army crossed several points, such as the Tagiia-
meuto, where a stand seemed probable, and halted eventually
upon the line of the Piave, which had been said to be un-
tenable, since it was commanded from the left rear. They were
still there in February, 1918, when I was writing my " New
Revelation." In describing the incident I said, " If nothing more
should occur the reference to the name has been fully justified,
presuming that some friend in the beyond was forecasting the
coming events of the war. 1 have still a hope, however, that
more was meant, and that some crowning victory of the Allies
at this spot may justify still further the strange way in which
the name was conveyed to my mind." This sentence appeared
in print in April. 1918.
It will be recalled that it was on June 17th, 1918, that the
first battle of the Piave was fought. It was not a great victory,
but it was a victory, and it is noteworthy that this date marked
the whole turning point of the war. Up to then the Allies had
in this year sustained three severe defeats, that of the second
Somme battle, the battle of the Lys, and the second Aisne
battle. On June 17th their prospects were very black. From
the day of the Piave battle they never looked back again,
and on every front they had an uninterrupted record of victory,
culminating, in the case of the Italians, in the second Piave battle,
]2 Journal uf Society for Psychical Research. Jan ,
1919.
which was the most decisive in the war. Thus in conveying the
name '
Piave ' my comforter had given me the keyname which
would unlock the whole situation.
Now how could this be accounted for by coincidence ? That
is unthinlcable. Even if my subconscious self had known there
was a river called the Piave, that would not have shifted the
Italian army back to it. Was it then telepathy ? But no one in
the world could have conjectured such a series of events. What
then was it ? I claim that the only possible explanation is that
my friends on the other side, knowing how much I worried over
the situation, were giving me comfort and knowledge. The
ordinary spirit has, so far as my reading and experience teach
me, only a very limited and uncertain gift of prophecy. There-
fore I have some reason to hope that my information came
from a high source. Why I should have been so privileged
above others is the one point which is beyond my conjecture.
Arthur Conan Doylk.
{The sealed letter to which Sir Arthur Conan Doyle refers above
was received by the Secretary on November 7, 1917, with a covering
note asking that it should be opened only at the writer's request. It
ran as follows :
WiNDLESHAM, CrOWBOROUGH,
Sussex, November 4, 1917.
In the early sumnaer of 1917 I woke from sleep with the word
Piave in my head, as the culmination of some dream of which
I could remember nothing. I had no remembrance of the word,
but thought vaguely it was a place. The index of an atlas
showed me that it was a river some distance behind the Italian
front. I drew the attention of my wife and brother-in-law to'
it that morning, and said something would surely occur there.
Afterwards the Italians advanced and Piave seemed far in the
rear. Now the tide has turned, tho' I have not yet seen the
line of the Piave mentioned. It is always the Tagliamento.
Still it is worth chronicling and putting into neutral hands.
A. Conan Doyle.
This letter ivas opened and read on November 20, 1918, on re-
ceiving the further communication from Sir Arthur Conan Doyle,
which we print above. Eu.]
Nos. CCCLII.-CCCLIII.—Vol. XIX. Feb. -March, 1910.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENT.S.
PAGE
Notice of Meeting, - 13
New ilembers and Associates, - 11
Annual General Meeting, - - 14
Meetings of the Council, - 15
Private Meeting, - 16
Donations to the Printing Fund, 17
Report of the Council for the year 191S, . - . 17
Personal Appearance of the Departed, 24
Case, 30
Correspondence, 32
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IX
THE STEINWAY HALL
LOWER SEYMOUR STREET, LONDON, W. i.
Oh FRIDAY, APRIL wth, 1919, at 4.30 /.;//.
Address by the President,
Lord RAYLEIGH, CM., F.R.S.
N.B.
—
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing tlieir names
at the door. Visitors will be adjnitted on the production of
an invitation card signed by a Member or Associate. Each
Member or Associate is allowed to invite one friend.
A
14 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb. -mah., 1919.
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Appleby, Joseph, Fainley, Great Crosby, Liverpool.
De Venancourt, Count, 7 Rue Duperre, Paris.
McOonnel, D. R.. Chantry Green, Steyning, Sussex.
Merton, Major Gerald, M.O., R.A.F., 12 Hobart Place,
Grosvenor Gardens, London, S.W.I.
Moore, R. E., 3 Temple Gardens, London, E.C.4.
Oldham, Mrs., 28 Norfolk Crescent, Hj^de Park, London, W.2.
Pickard, Mrs. Fortescue, 31 Buckingham Gate, London, S.W.I.
Sewell, Mrs. A. H., Flat 2, 25 Pembridge Crescent, London, W. 11.
Upton, William, Carantock, Gyllyngvase, Falmouth.
CoLLARD, Mrs., 120 St. Julian's Farm Road, W. Norwood,
London, S.E.27.
FiNULAY, J. Arthur, M.B.E., Woodside, Beith, Ayrshire.
Gledstonk, Miss Mary, 73 Gleneldon Road, Streatham, London,
S.W.I 6.
Heaton, Guy, 51 WestclifF Road, Bournemouth.
HooKHAM, Philip, 15 Chad Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Howard, C. S. G., 18 Queen's Road, Worthing.
Jknkinson, W. E., Highthorn, King Cross Road, Halifax, Yorks.
Keough, John J., 119-1/2 Calyer Street, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
McCoNNEL, Mrs. D. R., Chantry Green, Steyning, Sussex.
McIntyre, Mrs., The Nook, Cross Lanes, Findon, Sussex.
MuKPHY, Miss Imogen H., 23 Somerset Terrace, Dukes Road,
London, W.C.I.
Thatcher, Mrs. G. Robin, 20 Alexandra Road, Kingston Hill.
ToKKiLDSEN, V., Bergen, Norway.
Wild, Miss Ida, Harcombe, Uplyme, S. Devon.
Williams-Walkeh, a., Surgeon-Lieut. R.N., c/o S.N.O., Lerwick,
Shetland Isles.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS.
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was
held at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Friday, January
31st, 1919, at 3 p.m. ; Mr. J. G. Piddington in the chair.
Feb.-Mak., 1919, 15
There were also '"pteSent-r "Mi-. "Wr- W- B?.ggally, Mrs. Roy
Batty, Sir W. Barrett, Mr. Axtliur' Caj-lfenv Captain A. J.
Hollick, Sir Lawrence Jones, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Miss Rad-
clyife-Hall, Mrs. St. Clair Stobart, Mrs. Troubridge, Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick, Dr. V. J. \Voolley (and, by proxy. Dr. L. P. Jacks,
Sir Oliver Lodge, and Mr. Sydney C. Scott) ; also Mrs. Salter,
Editor, and Miss I. Newton, Secretary.
The Report of the Council for 1918 was accepted. The
audited account of income and expenditure for the year 1918
was presented and taken as read.
The Chairman announced that the six retiring Members of
the CouncU offered themselves for re-election. No other
aominations having been received, the following were declared
to be duly elected Members of the Council : Mr. W. W.
Baggally, Mr. St. G. Fox Pitt, Lord Rayleigh, Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, ]VIrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 159th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, January 31st, 1919, at
2.30 p.m. ; Mr. J. G. Piddington in the chair. There were
also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir W. Barrett, Sir Law-
rence Jones, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, l^Irs. Henry Sidgwick, and
Dr. V. J. WooUey ; also Mrs. Salter, Editor, and Miss I.
Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
The Report of the Council was considered for the year 1918.
The 160th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, January 31st, 1919, im-
mediately after the Annual General Meeting ; Mr. J. G.
Piddington in the chair. There were also present : Mr. W. W.
Baggally, Sir W. Barrett, Sir Lawrence Jones, Dr. T. W.
Mitchell, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. and Dr. V. J. Woolley ; also
Mrs. Salter, Editor, and Miss I. Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
16 Journal of Society f07' P.'iy^ckmil. Research, feb.-mak., 1919.
The proceedings of the Annual Geaeral. M^etiiig were reported.
The Right Hofc: liOr'd' llMleigh . wa^ ;€;iied;e9.- President of the
Society for the year 1919.
Mr. J. G. Piddington was re-elected Hon. Treasurer ; Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick and the Hon. Everard Peilding, Hon. Secre-
taries ; and Mr. John Avery, Auditor, for the current year.
The following were co-opted as Members of the Council for
the year 1919 : the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Mr. G. Lowes
Dickinson, Sir Lawrence Jones, Dr. T. AV. Mitchell, Dr. V. J.
WooUey, and Dr. M. B. Wright.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication : The Right Hon.
Gerald W. Balfour, Sir William P. Barrett, the Rev. M. A.
Bayfield, the Hon. Everard Peilding, Dr. W. Leaf, Sir Oliver
Lodge, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Lord Ray-
leigh, and Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
Library Committee : Sir William Barrett, the Hon. Everard
Peilding, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, and Mr. J. G. Piddington.
House and Finance Committee : Mr. W. W. Baggally, the
Hon. Everard Peilding, Mr. J. G. Piddington, and Mr. Sydney
C. Scott.
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were elected
for the year 1919.
Nine new Members and fifteen new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
PRIVATE MEETING PGR MEMBERS AND
ASSOCIATES.
The 59th Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber, at 20
Hanover Square, London, W., on Priday, January 31st, 1919,
at 4.30 p.m. ; Mr. J. G. Piddington in the chair.
Mr. Piddington, in announcing that the Council had that
afternoon elected Lord Rayleigh as President, said that they
felt it was a great honour for the Society to have as its
President a man of Lord Rayleigh's scientific distinction
;
amongst mathematical physicists no one held a higher place.
The aimouncement was received with much applause, -
/
Feb. -Mar., 1919. Report of the Council for the Year. 17
Mrs. W. H. Salter read a paper on " A Keport on the
Trance-phenomena of Mrs. Leonard," which will, it is hoped,
be published later in the Proceedings.
FURTHEE DONATIONS TOWARDS THE
INCREASED COST OF PRINTING.
Miss Irene Putnam ($100)
H. N. Matthews
Lord Selborne - - -
Lady Butt . . _
J. Arthur Hill -
Mrs. Hoare
Mrs. Belaribi - - -
Mrs. Courage -
Miss Diana Nash ( $5)
E. J. Thomson
Mrs. Arthur Tugwell
Miss Isabel Basden -
Miss Rachel Davison
Mrs. C. H. Taylor -
Mrs. Scott Browne -
£40 9 0
REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR THE YEAR 1918.
We may hope that the year which is now past has seen the
end of the European War, under the shadow of which we have
lived siace 1914, and that with the approach of peace the Society
for Psychical Research, like other scientific societies, may look
forward to a return to wider activities under more normal
conditions. Not only has our work been restricted by the
fact that many of those whom we might have enlisted as
co-operators in this country have been otherwise engaged, but
intercourse of any kind with our foreign members, even with
such as were allies or neutrals, has been very difficult. More-
over, several foreign and British periodicals whose contents
have a bearing on our work have been either in abeyance,
or much reduced. AU these factors have necessarily limited
our outlook and opportunities for research.
a2
£21 0 0
3 3 0
3 0 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
1 1 0
1 1 0
1 1 0
1 1 0
1 0 0
0 10 6
0 10 6
0 10 0
0 5 0
18 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb.-Mab., 1919.
So far as the membership of the Society is concerned, the
war made its influence felt most in 1915, when the net
decrease was 96 ; in 1916 it was 31, but in 1917 we were
able to report a net increase of 62, and in 1918 there has been
a further increase of 68. Fifty-seven new Members have been
elected, including one Honorary Member, and 4 Associates have
become Members ; 80 new Associates have been elected, and
7 Members have become Associates. The number of Members
elected last year was again large in proportion to the number
of Associates. The losses from death, resignations, and failure
to renew subscriptions amount to 21 Members and 48 Associates.
The total member.ship of the Society now stands at 1215, of
whom 348 are Members and 867 Associates.
The increase of interest in the Society's work which these
figures suggest is also indicated by the large sale of publica-
tions. In the sales to the general public there has only been
a small increase, the amoimt last year being £40 3s. 3d., as
compared with £33 16s. 8d. in. 1917 ; but seeing that these
sales are for the most part confined to the current volume, and
that our recent output has for various reasons been below
the average in size, we could hardly expect an increase here.
What is noticeable and encouraging is that the sale of publi-
cations last year to Members and Associates realised £104 15s. 9d.
This is the largest amount that the Society has ever obtained
from this source in any single year. The previous record was
reached in 1906, when the amount was £83 12s. 3d. ; the
average annual amoujit for the ten years between 1904 and
1913 was £54 14s. 3d., so that last year's total was ahnost
twice our pre-war average. This total was chiefly made up
by the sale of earlier volumes of Proceedings to those who
have recently joined the Society, which implies that our new
Members take a serious interest ki the work of the Society,
a fact of good augury for the future.
In July the Council decided to print in the Journal a
statement calling the attention of Members and Associates
to the very great increase in the cost of printing and paper,
which, if the average output of Proceedings and Journal was
to be maiatained, would involve an extra expenditure of about
£500 a year. The Council said that they hesitated at such a
tinie to make a general appeal, but that if any Members or
Feb.-Mab., 1919. Report of the Council for the Year. 19
Associates were willing to contribute, their generosity would
be much appreciated. The response to this appeal amounts
already to about £130, and donations are stUl being received.
Several contributors have expressed a hope that the Society's
publications would not be reduced ; some of them have offered
to make an annual donation so long as the present rate of
expenditure continues, and some Associates have intimated their
wish to become Members from January, 1919, in order that the
Prmting Fund may benefit by their increased subscriptions.
The principal piece of research work carried out last year
by the Society, as a Society, has been an enquiry into the
trance-phenomena of Mrs. Leonard. At the end of 1917, as
stated in the Annual Report for that year, an agreement was
entered into with Mrs. Leonard, whereby for a period of
three months from the middle of January to the middle of
April, 1918, she should give sittings only to persons for whom
appointments had been made through the Society. It was
made a condition of granting these appointments that a
recorder approved by the Society should be present at each
sitting to take notes, and that sitters should so far as possible
pro\'ide the information necessary for enabling investigators
to form a judgment upon the value- of the results obtained.
All the arrangements for sittings were in the hands of a
Committee appointed by the Council for that purpose, and
Mrs. Leonard received a weekly salary for her work. About
eighty sittings were held dm'ing this period. A preliminary
report on them is to be read to the Society by the Honorary
Research Ofiicer, and it is hoped that a fuller report upon
them may be published later.
In addition to supposed communications from spirits of a
type similar to those obtained through other mediums, sittings
with Mrs. Leonard are characterised by a special class of
phenomena, Imown as " book-tests," in which the communi-
cator professes some knowledge of passages in books standing
unopened in shelves in distant rooms. Into these the Society
is also enquiring, and if the claim of supernormal know-
ledge made in connexion with these tests should be substan-
tiated, the matter is likely to prove of some importance.
Although the Society no longer has any definite agreement
with Mrs. Leonard, it has not lost touch with her. Miss
20 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb.-Mae., 1919.
Kadclyffe-Hall and Mrs. Troubridge, upon whose report of
their own sittings the determination of the Council to enquire
into Mrs. Leonard's phenomena was partly based, are still
having regular sittings of which careful records are kept
;
and the Honorary Kesearch Officer, Mrs. Salter, has also had
sittings from time to time with good results.
Some of the theoretical problems which are raised by the
phenomena obtained through Mrs. Leonard and other mediums
have been the subject of discussion in the Journal, and
especially the question as to how we can account for veridical
descriptions given of the personal appearance of supposed
communicators unknown to the medium. The explana-
tions which have been put forward may be classified
according as they postulate a purely telepathic hypo-
thesis to explain this phenomenon, or account for it by
a theory of quasi-materialisation. Those who adopt the
telepathic hypothesis may be further classified according as
they suppose the telepathy to be from the sitter, or from
the communicator. To this last supposition it has been objected
that the descriptions which the medium gives appear to be
of people as others see them rather than as they appear to
themselves ; but in reply the suggestion has been made that the
telepathic impressions received by the medium are derived,
not from the communicator's conscious self as it existed when
he was aUve, but from his whole self, which may have a much
truer and profounder knowledge of his body than he ever
possessed consciously. It has also been pointed out that the
phenomena observed with mediums do not stand alone, but
fall into line with other phenomena, such as veridical appari-
tions of living persons. Sir Oliver Lodge has tentatively
suggested that the psychic interaction which appears to take
place with matter may take place also with the ether by
which matter is interpenetrated, and that a deeper loiowledge
than we at present possess of the properties of ether may
throw light upon psychical problems.
During the past year the Society has lost two old and
valued supporters by the death of Mrs. Benson, who had
been a member of the Society since the year of its foundation,
1882, and Bishop Boyd Carpenter, who had been a Vice-
President since 1885, and was President in 1912.
Feb. -Mae., 1919. Report of the Council for the Year. 21
The Assistant Secretary, Mrs. Thatcher, resigned in April,
1918, and considerable difficulty was experienced in finding
an efficient successor. As a consequence much extra work
was thrown on the Secretary, Miss Newton, who was without
adequate assistance for a considerable period. The Council
wishes to place on record their appreciation of the manner in
which Miss Newton surmounted the resultant difficulties and
successfully carried out the work of the Office.
The financial position of the Society is on the whole satis-
factory, though not so favourable as the Balance Sheet might,
perhaps, suggest. It is true that the General Fund has been
able to repay £100 borrowed from the Endowment Fund,
and also to transfer to the Endowment Fund the balance
(£200) of Mrs. Verrall's legacy of £500. But the Society's
Income was augmented during 1918 in an exceptional manner
by [a] donations to the Printing Fund amounting to £114 10s. 6d.,
(6) by an unusually large number of Life Membership and
Life Associateship payments, and (c) by an unusually large
sale of back numbers of the Proceedmgs. Of these three
sources of income, two at any rate, (6) and (c), are not
likely to continue to be as productive as in the past year.
Moreover, a far heavier expenditure for printing than that
shown in the accounts was incurred during 1918, and a further
payment of about £500 will have to be made to the printers
early in 1919.
Two Parts of Proceedings were published last year, Part
LXXV. in July and Part LXXVI. in November.
The number of meetings held during the year was four.
On January 31st, at a Private Meeting, Miss Radclyffe-Hall
read the first part of a paper by Mrs. Troubridge and herself
on "A Series of Sittings with Mrs. Leonard."
On March 22nd, at a General Meeting, Miss Iladclyffe-Hall
read the second part of the paper described above.
On July 5th, at a General Meetuig, Dr. T. W. Mitchell read
a paper on " The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality."
On November 15th, at a General Meeting, Sir Oliver Lodge
spoke on " Ether and Matter, and their possible Psychical
Bearings."
It is hoped that the two papers mentioned abo-ve will be
published later in Proceedings.
o
1-t Oi CO
TO c: CO
u'^OOO'-'OCOOOOlOOO^CO'-C'OOCO
T—t T—I I—
I
CO O O O '-'^ ^ <C O X CO O 1—< li'j CD
" tH i-Hr-Hi-H Cld
o CO o OO'-O
r-l
3 00 OOt-
Ci O O CO
I r-t o o
Cl C 1 ^
O •
g o £
3
PL,
to
p c3
e^a3
GOT— flJSOjOt:'
Pi
— j_i a; w —
a
2 2 g
0 CO
0 0 I>
tH
0 * (M
0 01
CO 0 CO CO
cf of
3
00
00
00
CI ^
o
o
o
Or:
O C3
J, 5 V- '-'
_ 55 ~ I
;
o gx)Hpq
, 4) o c:
J:-
—
|o..
Sa
o
00 -a "
-I a-<
OJ c3 •
CO 3 c S
05 5
So J='°
fi g-« S 2i
Ss"^3
"3
m
0 lO o^ooo 000a; 00 0 0
Cl ooi 0 1-H 0 0 0 I>
1-t .—1 ( 1—1 „ r-f r-t T-H i-H
0 0 i-H lO 01 (M 0 T-f CI
Cl I> CO CO CO ^ i-l Cl T-" CO Cl
CO 10 CO C<I CO
<*J
of oT
So
I O :
C*J 3
r- Cl 00000
0 Cl Cl 0 0 Cl
-T- C] Cl Cl 0
i.o o o
f» —
<
-< O CO c;
rf o m 01 O 01 c: Cl
eg." ^^^^^
3 >> —
i-H .-H W ^ Cl
o o c: o
Cl CO o
1.0 CO Cl
,2 <;
c ^
'4MB
s o 1^ r :
H ;
ra'-g 2 g =
^ i o
^ O C
go o 32
"•^s 3 «
CCKOOr-,
° 3
C 3
3 .
C
^ 3
is
2
Ih " O
a)r--a go
s 0) = <B
in
o
,
o
o
o
r/2
3
0
2 " 5 e4
H
o S ^' '5 . 'S
2«
--3
J C3
H
r/2
O
n
o
.V3 S
o ^ H a -J M o ;> Iz;
OOOOOr-jOOO
ooooooooo
O C/J o o »o o o
CC 03 O lO O ~. O
C<J a: (M O CI X)
^^^^ ^^ti
c
Z;
^ = it
S ®3
CO
6S
S o
So
CO
03 O
eg <V
aj CO
a;
^ .-i =5 o
>> 6 ee
^'5 '3 .
C ^ ^ (TI
— S
cc y: TO
o o o "5
O K CLi
£ 3 <u
0 0)^"
lii ^ ^ — ^
> JD ^ O ^
p o ce r^. r;; ^ c;
g'S S.2
:3 ,
-tJ QJ O O
cooo ^
(M O O
CM '-^
00 JC
° M S ^ c: ^
-M O O , VO O lO
T-MS-jt-ioo^-Mcqcrtitj
"i'? 'it '*t7 *|> '|7 ^ii>
^1 "I
00
O
I
o
o
CO
o
S
O O i-H
O o
P-i
.a
a
a
o
M Q
£.1
c3 --^
0)
3 1^ c6
^ o O O 1—
i
t- CO O O lO
t- lO o O CO
o o I—
1
« (M <M 05
<^
2 C5
C
o
s
= =o g g
-s § ?
"
^
S 5
a
^1
o «
1^
a
=
c >
^ B
o
> cj
o<C
^'^
S °
^ as
3^
3
i
s
o
24 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb.-Mak., 1919.
PERSONAL APPEARANCE OF THE DEPARTED.
By Dr. L. P. Jacks.
In a previous communication I pointed out that these appear-
ances, as described by mediums, seem to indicate not such
knowledge as a person would have of what he looks (or
looked) like, but rather the view of an external observer.
They suggest the public view of his appearance and character
as distinct from any -private view or estimate he may have
formed of himself. If I may be allowed so ugly a word, the
distinction may be otherwise expressed by saying that they
have all the marks of being ^etero-biographical and not auto-
biographical. From this I inferred the likelihood that these
descriptions are derived telepathically from the mind of some
person (most frequently the sitter) who remembers, either
consciously or subconsciously, the outside or public view
of the departed as he apjDcared during life.
In spite of what has been written by Sir Oliver Lodge,
Dr. Schiller, Professor Hyslop and Miss Sellers, this still seems
to me the least difficult explanation, though I would not
deny that it has difficulties of its own. If, on the other
hand, I am to view these appearances as autobiographical
or 6eZ/"-painted likenesses, I find them both physically and
psychologically unintelligible, and I can then account for them
only by supposing that spirits possess the power of working
what must be called a miracle. Miss Sellers seems to make
the same supposition when she suggests that spirits " have the
inherent power to be in appearance what they thmk themselves
to be." This I should say would be miraculous in the same
sense that a power to increase my height by thinking myself
a cubit taller than I am would be miraculous. But is this
a scientific mode of explanation 1 If the spirits may be credited
with an "inherent power" to do whatever they are alleged
to do, there would be no end to the claims on our credulity.
Until we have made up our minds on that point it is
useless to discuss the present question. How far may we
ascribe to spirits the power to perform feats which are
impossible to human agency under the known conditions, mental
Nor would it serve tlie purpose of recognition. If we are to be recognised by
our friends we must "build up" as they think us and not as we think ourselves.
Feb.-Mah., 1919. Personal Appearance of the Departed. 25
and physical, of this life 1 I observe in many quarters a
strong tendency to do so, and it seems to me to require
criticism. Thus, in the case of a haunted house with which
I had something to do, a door which was so bolted and
barred as to be absolutely unshakable by any human force
was alleged to have been violently shaken by the spirit. I
argued thus : this door is unshakable—but it is alleged to
have been shaken—^therefore there is something wrong with
the evidence. The witness argued in a very different way
:
this door is unshakable—-but it has been shaken—therefore
a spirit must have shaken it. The witness believed with
Miss Sellers that spirits have an inherent power to do this
kind of thing, and the more I urged the impossibility of
the thing the more convinced he became that a spirit had
done it. Which of these two is the right attitude of mind
for the psychical researcher ? The bearing of the point on
the present question is obvious. A spirit in the example
before us produced a back view of its former bodily appearance
—painted his own portrait, as it were, from behind. Does
the normal impossibility (or next to impossibility) of doing
this indicate something m'ong with the evidence 1 Or does
it increase the probability that a '
spiritual ' agency has been
at work ?
From the general tenor of his paper I gather that Sir
Oliver Lodge would support my own attitude in this matter.
Instead of appealing to a thaumaturgic power as the cause
of these phenomena he endeavours, in the true scientific
spirit, to correlate them with known facts. His argument
is that the bodily appearance of the departed • is an instance
of the normal process by which mind unconsciously builds
up a body conformable to itself. On the general theory
that our bodies are thus moulded and made what they are
by the mind I am entirely at one with him. But I doubt
if this theory can be made to cover the facts now before
us. For what the spirits ap|)arently do is not to manifest
themselves in the bodies they now possess, but to manifest
themselves in the bodies they formerly possessed—^their age
as it was, their dress as it ivas, even their hair brushed as
it ivas. All this is clearly '
out of the picture ' to which
Sir Oliver refers, and seems rather a breach of the theory
26 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb. -Mar., 1919.
than an instance of it. On the lines of the theory I should
expect my departed friend to manifest himself as he had
become in the meantime ; instead of which he manifests as
he was a long time ago, with his old suit on and his age
unchanged. Thus, though I agree that our normal minds
have what Sir Oliver calls a materializing faculty, I would
insist that they have no power of returning to their former
materializations.
Not, at least, in our waking experience. In dreams it
is different, and I think Miss Sellers has done a service to
the discussion by reminding us that in certain dreams we
go hacli to our former selves and appear in self knowledge as
we were at earlier points of our existence. And I agree with
Miss Sellers that the study of dreams would throw light on
this question of personal appearance—and not on it alone
but on the whole group of phenomena with which it is
associated. I am not sme, however, that the result of such
a study would be favourable to the survival hypothesis. It
might be. At present I am strongly inclining to the belief
that in dreams we are all telepathists ; the dream cited by
Miss Sellers, in which she seemed to herself to be another
person, suggesting to my mind that she was tapping somebody
else's experience.
I pass on to the question of names. In the particular
case to which I referred, I had been struck by the fact that
a spirit who manifested his former personal appearance with
great accuracy, even to minute details, was yet apparently
unable to manifest his name, except in an imperfect and
doubtful manner. It seemed to me an odd thing that one
who could build himself up, clothes and all, and even indicate
peculiarities in his appearance which could only be seen from
behind, should yet be unable to find the sound of his name,
or to trace the letters of it, which his hand must have traced
thousands of times on earth and which his eyes must have
seen thousands of times after they had been traced. Dr.
Schnier truly remarks that we do not usually think of ourselves
by name, or at least that the knowledge of our name has
very little to do with our self-consciousness. But I should
say that our back-view has still less. As to clothes, people
differ ; but I am very sure that my friend of the seance
Peb.-Mar., 1919. Personal Appearance of the Departed. 27
when on this earth was as far from thinking of himself in
terms of his old coat as he was from identifying himself
with the somid or letters of his name. Yet the coat was
manifested and the name was not. On the other hand, our
names, while imessential to our self-consciousness, do play
a prominent part in our sensible experience, especially with
those of us who are cursed by an iatermxinable correspondence,
and one would think that a mind returning on its old tracks,
as Sir Oliver Lodge suggests the spirits do, would find his
name one of the easiest things to pick out.
All this, however, can be retorted upon the hypothesis
of telepathy, as both Dr. Schiller and Miss Sellers have been
prompt to see. If the medium got the back-view of my
friend, and his old coat, telepathically from me, why did
she fail to get his name also ? It is a choice between diflS.-
culties. On the survival hypothesis you have a departed
spirit who has kept touch with his coat but lost touch with
his name ; on the other hypothesis you have a telepathist
who gets his coat from me but fails to get the nama It is
not easy to decide on which side the difficulties preponderate.
On the whole, however, I am inclined to think that they
are Lighter for the hypothesis of telepathy. It is easier to
understand how a telepathist. haviag succeeded in reading
one part of my mind, should fail or omit to read another,
than it is to understand how an educated man, in the other
life, should be able to reproduce his coat but unable to trace
the letters of his own name. Even when telepathy is known
to take place it is never claimed, I believe, that the whole
contents of the subject's mind lie open to the telepathist.
Nor is the telepathist discredited because, after reading one
of my thoughts correctly, he has failed to read another. It is
as though I had accused a person of stealing my watch and
the defence were set up that he could not have stolen my
watch because he didn't steal something else which was in
the same pocket.
Sir Oliver Lodge suggests that I have no right to speak of
the spirit forgetting its name, and that what I take to be
this is probably due to the failure of the control to " catch
"
the name which the spirit has correctly given. In the case
to which I was referring, I doubt if this can be accepted : all
28 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb. -Mar., i919
the signs indicated that the failure was in the communicating
spirit. But even if we do accept Sir Oliver's view, the result
is merely to shift the difficulty from the spirit to the control.
Why, if the control can " catch " and reproduce long messages
or sentences given by the spirit, should she be unable to
" catch " the name in spite of the effort of all parties to get
it through 1 Sir Oliver agrees with Dr. Schiller as to the
unimportance of our names to our self-consciousness, the
suggestion being, I suppose, that spirits are not interested
in their names. And yet, whether successfully or not, they
apparently make great efforts to get them through both by
spelling and by sound. And naturally so ; for however unim-
portant names may be in the psychology of self-consciousness
they are an important means of identification, and would
inevitably be made use of by an intelligent spirit interested
in getting itself identified by the sitter. He would use not
only his own name, but the names of those he remembered
or was addressing—-and apparently does so, when he can.
I think^ that both Sir Oliver and Dr. Schiller show at this
point the disposition to draw a metaphysical herring across
the track. It is a very good herring but has no business
here.
Sir Oliver suggests further that I err in regarding the personal
appearances as consciously enacted by the spirits on the basis
of consciouslij remembered data ; and thinks that the diffi-
culties I have indicated would disappear if we refer the pheno-
mena to subconscious activities. Well, I am perfectly willing
to translate the whole argument into subconscious terms, but
I cannot see how this would ease the difficulty. The old
question recurs in precisely the same form. If the spirit, by
means of some subconscious activity, can produce a likeness
or quasi-material embodiment of its former presence, including
the clothes it wore, why cannot it also, by means of the
same subconscious activity, produce a lUceness or quasi-material
embodiment of its former name ? Why again, if subconscious
activities enable it to recover its former language and to speak
it with fluency, should they not enable it to recover the one
spoken and written word with which it was most familiar 1
Are we to suppose that the realms of subconsciousness are
receptive to such things as a clean-shaven face and a tweed
Feb. -Mae., 1919. Personal Appearance of the Departed. 29
suit (botli of which were " built up " on the occasion in
question) and language in general, but intolerant of proper
names ? I see no reason to suppose anything of the kind.
Recurring to the hypothesis of telepathy, Sir Oliver puts
the following case and asks whether I would regard it as a
crucial test
;
" Suppose a perfectly unknown person is being described, one
whom the sitter has never seen ; and suppose he is ultimately
told to take messages from this stranger to a friend or
acquaintance ; and suppose that on taking the message, and
showing the description, it is recognized as correctly repre-
senting the recipient's memory of the communicator."
I have heard of several such cases and believe them to be
well-authenticated. Would telepathy cover them ?
I can only give a hypothetical answer, for the simple reason
that I do not know, and am not aware that anybody knows
what the range of telepathy is. The hypothetical answer
would be as follows :
(1) If it were conclusively proved that telepathy is une
affaire a deux, that is, always limited to the telepathist and
the person on whom he is immediately operating, then clearly
the case supposed is a crucial one and telepathy is ruled out.
(2) But telepathy is not necessarily limited to two persons.
It may conceivably work through a network of centres—all
of them doubtless in the subconscious realm. Thus the
telepathist who taps my mind may through my mind have
access to the mind of my friend, and through his to that of
a third person, and so on. By the entry gained into one
mind the telei)athist might in fact be able to read a whole
group of minds with which the first is in some sort of relation.
Nothing of the kind, so far as I know, has been proved ; but
neither do I know that it has been disproved, nor of any
reason that renders it antecedently impossible. If this long-
range telepathy exists the case supposed is not a crucial one
and telepathy is not ruled out.
30 Journal of Society for Psychical ResearcJi. Feb. -Mae., 1919.
CASE.
L. 1222. Auditory.
The following case is a good specimen of a sensory halluci-
nation concerning a person which preceded by a short time
the unexpected arrival of that person. Several such cases
will be found in Phantasms of the Living and elsewhere, in the
Society's publications. Assuming that we can rule out chance,
the presumption is that the hallucination is due to a telepathic
impulse from the person on the point of arriving.
We arQ indebted for the first account we received of this
case to Miss E. Arkwright, who wrote as follows from Bourne-
mouth :
On Tuesday, January 8, (at Grrange-over-Sands, Lanes), Mr.
Saunders (a retired gardener of ours) heard a message (Mr. Saunders
has a grandson at the front called Tom). The message is this,
that Saunders heard " Tom is coming to-day." Saunders was
wide awake (about 7.30 in the morning), and had been for some
time. He looked round to see who it was speaking ; and there
was no one to be seen. If the message had not been uttered
loudly Saunders would not have heard, as he is extremely deaf.
When he went down to breakfast he told the incident to his
family. They chaffed him and said he must have been dreaming.
After brealcfast (at 9 o'clock) when Saunders was washing up the
breakfast things in walked the said Tom.
On January 7th they received a printed card from Tom from
France to say he was very well and a letter would follow. His
leave was quite unexpected. The message Saunders received was
on the following day, January 8th.
As our correspondent was unknown to us and had omitted
to give her name, we asked Mr. RoUeston Walker, an associate
of the Society living at Bournemouth, if he could find out
more for us. This he has very kindly done. He saw Miss
E. Arkwright, who gave him a very satisfactory account of
the percipient, " a most reliable, a matter-of-fact person."
She also put him in communication with her Aunt, Miss S. M.
Arkwright, at Grange-over-Sands, from whom she first heard
the story. To the latter lady he sent a note of points on
which information was desired, and she was good enough to
call on the family of Mr. Saunders, who were known to her.
Feb. -Mar., 1919. Case. 31
Finding him absent she left a request for a written account
of his experience, with the following notes of points to be
dealt with.
1. A signed statement from one or more of the persons to whom
Saunders described his [experience] before the arrival of his
grandson.
2. A statement as to the time of the son's arrival and its
unexpectedness.
3. Whether Saunders has ever had a similar experience, visual,
auditory, or otherwise.
4. The state of Saunders's health before and after the incident.
5. His age.
6. A confirmatory letter from Tom of the incident.
In reply she received the following statements from Mr.
Saunders and his granddaughter :
On the eighth of January about 7 a.m. I heard four words
distinctly as I lay in bed: "Tom's coming to-day." I asked
Maud and her mother if either had been in the room. They
answered in the negative. I told them what I had heard. They
thought I must have been dreaming. There it ended till the
unexpected Tom turned up between 9 and 10 a.m. on the same
day.
My health was good at the time, before and after. Age 84.
James Saunders.
Fern Bank, Grange-o.-Sands.
On the morning of January 8th, 1918, while Grandfather was
having breakfast he said :
" Tom's coming to-day, so some one
told me." He explained his words by saying that while he lay
in bed a voice distinctly said, " Tom's coming to-day," so he
turned over to see who it was speaking, but there was no one
there.
A Uttle later on the same morning my brother Tom arrived.
None of us knew he was coming and we were not expecting him.
Maud Saunders.
Fern Bank, Grange-over-Sands.
October 14, 1918.
P.S.—Mother has written to Tom and asked him if he re-
members anything about the circumstances, but we shall not be
able to get a reply for several days [Tom being with the army
in France].
32 Jottrnal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb.-Mae., 1919.
It will be seen that Mr. Saunders has not answered the
important question whether he has ever had other similar
experiences. Perhaps the meaning of the question as it
stands was not very clear to him. If auditory hallucinations
were frequently experienced by him the evidential vahie of
the coincidence would of course be materially diminished. It
seems probable, however, from the evidence before us that
the experience was at least rare and striking if not unique.
After some time, no answer reaching her from '
Tom,'
Miss S. M. Aikwright called on the Saunders family again,
and learnt that a letter had been received from him but lost
or mislaid. Miss Maud Saunders writes on January 13, 1919 :
My brother Tom, when we wrote to ask him if he remembered
the incident, said he remembered it quite well and only wished
it had occurred again, but his letter is not to hand; so cannot
send it on to you. M. Saunders.
COERESPONDENCE.
I. EFFECT OF LIGHT ON LONG ETHER WAVES AND
OTHER PROCESSES.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
A curious and imi^ortant observation, made on the basis of
experience in long-distance wireless telegraphy, exhibits a strange
kind of interference between ether waves of very different lengths.
The extremely short waves which ionise air interfere with the
easy transmission of the long waves which are originated by
alternating electric currents, and may conceivably have something
to do with the optical opacity of dry haze.
This is an entirely different effect from the purely localised
bands of interference which accompany the superjaosition of wave
motions and are a matter of simple geometry. In this phenomenon
of interferenceJ^ands there is no destruction, only re-distribution,
of energy ; and there is nothing akin to opacity whether of
the absorbent or of the reflective kind. It is moreover purely
an affair of the ether : whereas opacity is always an effect brought
about by the presence of matter in the path of ether waves.
The ions or electrons which are liberated from matter by exceed-
ingly short waves raise a barrier or act as a reflector to extremely
long ones. Thus the phenomenon depends on the interaction
Feb.-Mak., 1919. Gorrespon dence. 33
between free ether and electrified particles immersed in it. So
far I have recently written to Nature, in connexion with a project
for observing the effect of the forthcoming solar eclipse of May
29th on Wireless Telegraphy in the region of totality between
Brazil and the Gulf of Guinea. I now continue on a different
theme.
It has been customary among non-physical writers to claim
wireless telegraphy as analogous to telepathy—as if that too were
likely to be a travelling physical process transmitted by the
ether at a definite pace. There is no evidence in favour of
such a proposition, and the analogy between telepathy and wireless
telegraphy is merely popular and superficial. If telepathy were
shown to vary as the inverse square of the distance, if it were
interrupted by metallic screens, even if it were obstructed by
light or by transition from light to dark between sending and
receiving stations,—these facts would be relevant. But I know
of no such facts.
An obstructive influence of light has always been asserted in
connexion with certain phenomena, it is true, and the consistent
character of this testimony is worthy of attention : but these
phenomena have been always of the psycho-physical order-
materialisations let us say, or direct voice, or movement of objects
without contact— and never, so far as I remember, has any luminous
obstruction been asserted for purely psychical phenomena such as
I at present believe telepathy to be.
If it be true, however, that light really does interfere with what
are technically known as " physical phenomena, that fact is
clearly important,—for here we are dealing with Avhat must be
2>artly a physical process and which if genuine .seems likely to be
at least an interaction between ether and matter. So it may be
that either the etherial quiver known as light, or else the residual
ionised jKoduct of rapid ether waves, does exert some definite
physical influence inimical to the ready exertion of the material
forces or manipulations necessary.
It becomes important, and it would seem comparatively easy,
to ascertain whether still more rapid etherial oscillations, too rapid
to affect the eye but exceedingly effective in ionising power,
such as X-rays for instance, would also exert a detrimental
influence, in a room otherwise and optically " dark." Not
necessarily perfectly dark—for since the longer waves of red light,
which are known to have less ionising power, do not appear to
34 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb. -Mar., 1919.
be seriously hostile to physical phenomena, there would be evi-
dential advantage in employing such illumination as usual.
If this country possessed a psychical laboratory, such as will
some day no doubt be established, or if Dr. Crawford could
continue his researches at Belfast, the influence of X-rays coming
through a thin aluminium partition into the operating room
—
such rays being preferably put on or off at times unknown to
those present, so as to minimise the effect of suggestion,—the
experiment would be well worth making. For a physical pheno-
menon, even a psycho-physical phenomenon, must have physical
concomitants ; and the investigation of these would be sure sooner
or later to throw light on the mechanism of the at present barely
credible phenomena themselves, and determine their relationship
in the orthodox physical family from which hitherto they have
been too arbitrarily and ignominiously extruded.
Oliver J. Lodge.
II. TBLERGY.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE S.P.R
There has been some criticism, most courteous in form, of
my use of the word '
telergy '
in a little book I have written.
I think, then, it is but just I should be allowed to explain why
I have so used the term : I beheve I have followed Myers'
footsteps directly.
In his great work on Huntan Personality he defines telergy
as :
" The force exercised by the mind of an agent in impressing
a percipient—involving a direct influence of an extraneous spirit
on the brain or organism of the percipient." How does he himself
interpret this definition ?
On page 197 of the same work he says telergy is a kind of
correlative to telepathy. He says also :
" This action on the
physical brain may be due either to the percipient's own spirit
or subliminal self, or else directly to the agent's spirit."
On page 526 he says " That law (that spirits should influence
men) is the direct transmission of thought and emotion from
mind to mind and the telergy—to use here a word more active
in its connotation than telepathy—the telergy by which this
transmission is effected may be as imiversally diffused in the
metatherial world as heat in the material."
These statements of Myers, I think, show that he meant the
word inoolving to be used in its ordinary sense not as meaning
Feb. -Mar., 1919. Correspondence. 35
'
involving in every case.' If he meant the word involving to
be used as '
involving in every case,' then, in his own great work,
he misused his own definition. F. C. Con.stable.
III. DREAM-ANALYSIS.
To the Editor of the Journal op the S.P.R.
Dear Madam,—Students of Freud and Jung will have read
Miss Johnson's article on Dream-Analysis in Part LXXV. of the
Proceedings with very great interest, and those who know Miss
Johnson's work on behalf of the Society will not fail to be im-
pressed by the results. Even these, however, I venture to think,
will wonder whether the quality of dream-analysis is not strained
when the solution does not drop dew-like into consciousness
spontaneously.
For example (page 70), Miss Johnson says, (a) " For a long
time I tried in vain to think of any other associations ; at last
it occurred to me ; ... ," and (&) (page 82) " when about
four months later I got the book again and read it carefully
(in connection with another dream), I foimd to my surprise that
Aristophanes' primeval man was behind this dream also."
Is it a legitimate process in dream-analysis to try and think
of associations ? Can one reaUy be sure of distinguishing the
spontaneous acquiescence felt to the connection of a memory mth
a dream incident, on waiving or in Freud's quiescent state, and
the feeUng of aptness residtant upon finding an associable idea
in the course of one's reading afterwards ? Supposing in case
(6) above, Miss Johnson had, in the course of her reading after
the dream, happed upon the story of Troy and the Wooden
Horse, how would this have fitted in with the Rocking Horse
dream ? There is a certain relevancy to the dream : the busy
swarm of bees issuing from Samson's lion, Aristeus' ox, and the
soldiers pouring from the hollow horse.
Again in the Tableau Vivant dream, from the account of
which (a) is taken, it seems to me, if I may venture to say so,
there seems to be a strong association with " Alice through the
Looking Glass "
;
especially if the brightly coloured dress of the
happy wife was red : I mean Alice with the Red and White
Queens. The latter was of a distinctly hypochondriacal if not
unhappy disposition, and the incident is largely connected with
her cloak, which finally came off and blew away.
36 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. v-rh.-Uaw., itno.
Of course this may have occurred to Miss Johnson and failed
to awaken the necessary subliminal sense of approjjriateness.
The fact that the flat-faced dolls faced one another in the
doll dream while the dreamer was able to see their faces is of
course quite possible in dreams, nevertheless it suggests a touch
of " secondary elaboration '"
in the actual outlining of the dream.
That " '
letters '
suggest literature and hence that a literary origin
is to be looked for is not quite convincing, especially as the
letters are so clearly assignable to the recent visit to the oculist.
But waiving the above criticisms—the results obtained have
perhaps an important significance in connection with the sugges-
tion made by Miss May Sinclair in the Journal for May-June,
1917 '
: that the cross-correspondences may be traceable to sub-
conscious desire on the part of the automatists (or an auto-
matist) to produce script of this kind. Here we have proofs
that Miss Johnson's subconscious self has been very busy corre-
lating the ideas both manifest and latent in the old scripts, and
that they do not emerge full-fledged into her waking mind on
analysis, but some later than others. If we adopt Freud's
nomenclature and suppose that some of the ideas (familiar now
to readers of the Proceedings) were telepathically conveyed by an
automatist X, to A from the Unconscious, and others to B
from the Pre-conscious (assuming that they (such ideas) do pass
from the former to the latter on their way to Consciousness),
and assuming further that in the absence of the analytical nisus
they do not reach consciousness at all—if this is assumed, scripts
produced would have a purely living source, would perforce show
the complementary character, and no one would necessarily know
whence they originated.
The strength of Freud's theory is that it affords an explanation
of the strange predilection of the subconscious for veiling its
message in this inexplicable way. If it has a meaning it is not
ashamed of, why wrap it w.]) in symbolism '? If symbolism is,
like the appendix and tonsils, a rudiment of a bygone method
of fimctioning, why should not the supraliminal have inherited
the faculty of interpreting its messages or " ruminations " ?
Ernest E. Thomas.
iJo«r. S.P.n. Vol. XVIII., pp. 67. 68.
NOTICE. -
The index to Volume XVIII. of the Jourjial will very shortly be
ready, and may be obtained, post free, on application to the Secretary.
No. CCCLIV.—Vol. XIX. .
\ April, 1919.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates, - ----- 37
Meeting of the Council, 38
Donations to the Printing Fund, 38
Obituary Sir WOliam Crookes, O.M., F.R.S. 38
Cases, 39
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Allen, P. F., c/o W. E. Clark Lumber Co., Inc., 207 Whitney
Central Buildings, New Orleans, U.S.A.
Anderson, Mrs. F. J., 4 Trebovir Road, Kensington, London,
S.W. 5.
Crosfield, J. J., Gwernyfed Park, Three Cocks R.S.O.
Gowan, Commander C. H. B., R.N., H.M.S. Furious.
Hasiam, Oliver H., Sand Ridge, St. Anne's-on-the-Sea, Lancashire.
Hepworth, Captain W. C. P., Moorings, Dovercourt.
Johnstone, Hon. Gilbert, 43 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
McKay, H. G., St. Bede's School, Duke's Drive, Eastbourne.
Mullins, Colonel W. B., Ambersham House, Midhurst, Sussex.
Pollard, Dr. W. H., J.P., 343 Hagley Road, Edgbaston.
Rae, Dr. J. Burnett, 145 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
Sebastien, Charles, Sanchez, Samana, Republica Dominicana.
Denny, Rev. H. L. L., St. Giles' Rectory, Horsted Keynes, Sussex.
Fowler, Captain Alfred, 17 Board of Trade Building, Kansas
City, Mo., U.S.A.
GoucHER, F. S., Ph.D., Toynbee Hall, 28 Commercial Street, White
chapel, London, E.
Hara^ey, G. H., P.O. Box 254, Quebec, Canada.
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1919.
Knight, Maxwell, 18 University Mansions, Putney, London, S.W. 15.
Le Patoueel, Miss M. L., 26 Walpole Street, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
Nicholson, Lady, 35 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Owen-Williams, Mrs., Ridgeway, nr. Narbeith, Pembrokeshire.
Parr, W. H., 10 Westbury Park, Bristol.
SoLEY, Mrs., 66 Holbein House, Sloane Square, London, S.W. 1.
MEETma OF THE COUNCIL.
The 161st Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Tuesday, March 11th, 1919, at
4.30 p.m. ; Mr. J. G. Piddinuton in the chair. There were
also present : Sir William Barrett, the Eev. M. A. Bayfield,
Captain E. N. Bennett,' Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J. Woolley : also Mrs. Salter, Editor,
and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Twelve new Members and ten new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Account for January, 1919, was presented
and taken as read.
FUETHER DONATIONS TOWARDS THE INCREASED
COST OF PRINTING.
A. Mansell, - - - - - - - -
Dowager Lady Farrer, ------
Mrs. F. W. H. Myers, . . - _ _
Mrs. Salter, - ^ ----- -
OBITUARY.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S.
We record with much regret the death of Sir William Crookes,
O.M., F.R.S., which occurred on April 4th, 1919. An Obituary
Notice will be published later in Proceedings. ,
£1 1 0
5 0 0
15 0 0
12 10 0
Apeil, 1919. Gases. 39
CASES.
I. Apparition at the Time of Death.
L. 1223.
We owe the following case in the first instance to Mr. Hubert
Wales, who has been a Member of the Society for several
years and kindly undertook to collect the necessary evidence.
Its special interest lies in the fact that some intimation of
the death of an officer in action appears to have been received
in three different quarters at about the time of his death
or very shortly afterwards, before any normal knowledge of
what had occurred could have reached those concerned. The
officer in question was Captain Bowyer-Bower, and the following
notice of his death appeared in the Cotirt Journal of June 1,
1917 :
BowYER-BowER.—Previously reported missing, now reported
killed in action on March 19th, Bldred Wolferstan Bowyer-Bower,
Captain the East Surrey Regiment and R.F.C., son of Captain
and Mrs. T. Bowyer-Bower, of 30, Bramham Gardens, S.W., and
of Ashanti, and grandson of the late Major-Ceneral Henry Bower,
aged twenty-two years. (Captain Bower's body, beside his
beriddled plane, was found and recovered by his own father on
May 10th.) No mourning.
It appears from information received by Captain Bowyer-
Bower's mother (see below) that his death occurred in the
early morning.
1. The most remarkable of the experiences which have
been reported to us was an apparition of Captain Bowyer-
Bower which was seen by his half-sister Mrs. Spearman in
India, within a few hours of his death. Mrs. Spearman's
original report of her experience was obtained under the
following circumstances.
Shortly after Captain Bowyer-Bower's death, his fiancee,
Miss Highett, had a sitting with a professional medimn, Mrs.
Brittaiu, at which a statement was made which Mrs. Highett
reports thus in a letter to Mr. Wales :
Wed. mil June [1918].
I wish to tell you that Mrs. Brittain was quite a stranger to
Captain and Mrs. Bower and me. My interview with her took
40 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apkil, 1919.
place on September 29th, 1917. After telling me many things
about Mrs. Bower's son she said, " He has a sister." I said,
"Yes, Cicely." She said, "No, that's not the name." She
waited a few seconds and then said :
" Joan. She has a little
girl called Joan, now I get Dorothy." I said, " Yes." He
says, " Tell Dorothy she has the power to communicate." He
also said, " She is not in this country." ^Eta Highett.
Mrs. Bowyer-Bower wrote to her step-daughter, Mrs. Dorothy
Spearman (Captain Bower's half-sister) in India, with refer-
ence to the statements made to Miss Highett at this sitting.
The following passage is extracted from Mrs. Spearman's reply :
Calcutta,
2 Jan., 1918.
. . . Now I have never told you this before because I was
afraid you would not understand. Eldred was greatly on my
mind when baby was born, and I could only think of him. On
March 19th, in the late part of the morning, I was sewing and
talking to baby, Joan was in the sitting-room and did not see
anything. I had a great feeling I must turn round and did,
to see Eldred ; he looked so happy and that dear mischievous
look. I was so glad to see him, and told him I would just put
baby in a safer place, then we could talk. " Fancy coming
out here," I said, turning roimd again, and was just putting
my hands out to give him a hug and a kiss, but Eldred had
gone. I called and looked for him. I never saw him again.
At first [I] thought it was simply my brain. Then I did think
for a second something must have happened to him and a terrible
fear came over me. Then again I thought how stupid I was,
and it must be my brain playing tricks. But now I know it
was Eldred, and all the time in Church at baby's christening
he was there, because I felt he was and know he was, only I
could not see him. All the time I thought why do I fee] like
this when Eldred is safe. And Mrs. K kept on telling me
to look more cheerful ...
Mrs. Bowyer-Bower states that Mrs. Spearman was at a
hotel in Calcutta at the time referred to in the above .extract,
and in a letter to Mr. Wales she says :
mh May, 1918.
. . . The little boy whose Christening is mentioned was to have
been his godson and the day he was baptized Eldred fell. Dolly
April, 1919, Gases. 41
[Mrs. Spearman] did not of course know of Eldred's death, or
even that he was out in France again, as he had been home
several months and [had] only returned there three weeks when
kiUed ...
In reply to a question addressed to her by Mrs. Bowyer-
Bower as to whether she had informed any one of her ex-
perience before she knew of Captain Bowyer-Bower's death,
Mrs. Spearman wrote thus :
Darjeeling,
August 3rd, [1918].
... I can only tell him [Mr. Wales] I saw Eldred, and, Peggy,
I shall never forget the joy that went through me or the horror
when I looked and called and could not find him or make him
hear. No, I did not tell any one before I heard of his death
and have not up to now. I did not tell Alec^ because I knew
he did not beUeve as I did. When I told him how Mrs. B
saw the W boy, Alec said it must have been a dream. One
day Alec said, I wonder if any one has seen Eldred, and I said
yes I have, and I explained what I saw and how I felt, and
when I went to the Grand we took the same rooms and I showed
him where Alley stood. He now believes we can see those who
have gone. His belief is the same as my own. If Alec had
been with me at the time. I would have called out to him and
asked if he had seen Eldred, was he in the sitting-room. I only
knew the K s in Calcutta, and often when I spoke to them
they would laugh. So I never said a word about Alley. In
fact I thought it might be my own madness. I started a letter
to you the same day and tore it up as I thought you would
only say it was cracked. . . .
Subsequently a further statement concerning her experience
was obtaiaed from Mrs. Spearman in a letter to Mr. Wales,
as foUows :
12 Jan. 1919.
My step-mother Mrs. Bowyer-Bower asked me to write to you
about the vision I had of my brother.
My brother appeared to me on the 19th March, 1917. At the
time I was either sewing or talking to my baby, I carmot
remember quite what I was doing at that moment. The baby
was on the bed.
I had a very strong feehng I must turn round ; on doing so,
1 Mrs. Sijearruan's husband.
42 Joumcd of Society for Psychical Research. Apeil, 1919.
I saw my brother Eldred W Bowyer-Bower. Thinking he was
alive and had been sent out to India, I was simply delighted
to see him, and turned round quickly to put baby in a safe
place on the bed, so that I could go on talking to my brother
;
then turned again and put my hand out to him, when T found
he was not there. I thought he is only joking, so I called him
and looked everywhere I could think of looking. It was only
when I could not find him I became very frightened and the
awful fear that he might be dead. I felt very sick and giddy.
I think it was 2 o'clock the baby was christened, and in the
church I felt he was there, but I could not see him. Two weeks
later I saw in the paper he was missing. Yet I could not bring
myself to believe he had passed away. I did fancy once I saw
my grandmother, but she seemed very misty, so it may have
been fancy.
I did not tell any one of the vision I saw of my brother for
quite 1 or 2 months after I heard of his death, as I was
staying in the Grand Hotel, Clalcutta, and did not know anyone
there very well. My husband was not with me and I did not
write to him about it, because he did not believe in these sort
of things. However. I finally told him before writing to Mrs.
Bowyer-Bower. The only reason I did not mention it was, I
felt nervous people would only say I had imagined it, so decided
to keep quiet on the subject.
Dorothy C. Spearman.
It is unfortunate that Mrs. Spearman should not have
mentioned her experience to anyone before she knew of her
brother's death, but this weak point in the evidence is to
some extent counteracted, because the date of the experience
is established by the circumstance (clearly recollected by Mrs.
Spearman) that it occurred on the da} upon which her baby
was christened. The christening of the child, as we are
informed by Mrs. Bowyer-Bower, took place on March 19,
1917, the day of Captain Bowyer-Bower's death. It is very
unlikely that Mrs. Spearman's memory would deceive her on
such a point as that, and it is evident from her statements
that the experience was of a striking and unusual character,
the apparition being so completely developed as to make her
think momentarily that her brother was actually present in
the flesh. She states that the experience took place " in
the latter part of the morning," which means that allowing
April, 1919, Gases. 43
for the diiference of latitude it occurred at about the time
of Captain Bowyer-Bower's death, seeing that, so far as can be
ascertained, he died in France in the early morning of the same day.
2. Some visual impression of Captain Bowyer-Bower would
also appear to have been received at about the time of his
death by his niece, a child of not quite three years old.
This incident was reported to Mr. Wales in a letter from
the child's mother, Mrs. Chater, Captain Bowyer-Bower's
sister, thus :
June 5th [1918]
My mother Mrs. Bowyer-Bower tells me you wish me to write
and tell you about my little girl saying she had seen my brother
after he was killed.
One morning while I was still in bed, about 9.15, she came
to my room and said, " Uncle Alley Boy is downstairs," and
although I told her he was in France, she insisted that she had
seen him. Later in the day I happened to be writing to my
mother and mentioned this, not liecause I thought much about
it, but to show that Betty still thought and spoke of her uncle
of whom she was very fond. A few days afterwards we found
that the date my brother was missing was the date on my
letter. This letter has since been destroyed.
The child was a httle under three years old at the time. . . .
I have never attached much importance to this incident as it
may be just only a childish lie. Cecily Chater.
Concerning the above letter Mrs. Bowyer-<Bower wrote to
Mr. Wales as follows :
8 St. Paul's Road,
Bournemouth.
12th June, 1918.
. . .
'
Alley Boy ' was Eldred's pet name since he was a baby. .
.
I could not positively declare the date of Mrs. Chater's letter
to me telMng me what Betty saw. It might have been the
19th, 20th or 21st, but anyhow I received it down here before
I got the War Office telegram announcing he was missing. Eldred
fell on the Monday. The War Office telegram was received by
me by post sent on from Bramhain Gardens, South Kensington, my
home, on Friday morning, March 23rd. ... I believe I received
Mrs. Chater's letter on the Wed. 21st It was 'positively a day
or two before I got the other news. In any case she told me
44 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apeil, 1919.
it was on Monday Betty tried to get her out of bed to come
down and see '
Uncle Alley Boy.' It proved to be about the
time the boy fell. His Colonel's account said he went out at
dawn and after " reconnoitring just over an hour over German
lines he was pounced on from the clouds by an overwhelming
number of enemy machines," etc., etc. He received the news
from a Cavalry Patrol between 10-11 a.m. the same day.
3. Concerning the third impression received at about the
time of Captain Bowyer-Bower's death, Mrs. Bowyer-Bower
wrote to Mr. Wales, thus :
June 12th, 1918.
. . . Mrs. Watson, an elderly lady I have known many years,
wrote to me on the afternoon of March 19th [1917] after not
corresponding with me for quite 18 months, and said she felt
she must write because she felt I was in great anxiety over
Eldred. (I have her two letters in store in London, fortunately.)
I wrote back and said Eldred was fit and happy, and I simply
took her writing thus [as an] excuse for writing again after so
long. I asked her in my reply what she felt about Eldred, and
she replied to this effect—on the afternoon of the day she wrote,
about tea time, a certain and awful feeling came over her that he
was killed, etc., etc. It was the day . . .
Subsequently in November, 1918, ]\Irs. Bowyer-Bower sent
to Mr. Wales the first of the two letters written to her by
Mrs. Watson, which runs as follows :
March 19, 1917.
Something tells me you are having great anxiety about Eldred.
Will you let me know ? Also have you good news of Tom ? . . .
The second of Mrs. Watson's letters Mrs. Bowyer-Bower was
not able to find, but her statement is sufficiently corroborated
by the first letter, given above, which is dated March 19,
1917, the day of Captain Bowyer-Bower's death.
The last two experiences, that of the child and that of Mrs.
Watson, are not in themselves very striking, and if either
stood alone, it might be put down to chance-coincidence. But
taken together, and especially taken in conjunction with Mi's.
Spearman's remarkable experience, they are not without
interest, and assuming the agency of Captain Bowyer-Bower,
1 March 19, 1917, was a Mouday.
April, 1919. Cases. 45
they suggest that this agency was unusually powerful and was
felt by more than one person.
Two later experiences, occurring after Captain Bowyer-
Bower's death was known, are also worth recording. They
do not fall into the same category as the three experiences
related above, as indicating knowledge supernormally acquired,
but they were such as greatly to impress the percipients, and
again assuming the agency of Captain Bowyer-Bower ia the
case of the former experiences, they suggest that this agency
has continued to make itself felt since Captain Bowyer-Bower's
death.
4. The percipient in one case was Mrs. Bowyer-Bower, who
describes her experience thus :
June 12, 1918.
During the night, either in the late part of Nov. or early
part of Dec. 1917, I came over very hot indeed and turned down
the eiderdown, etc. Some few moments later I became extra-
ordinarily cold with a most unnatural coldness. ... I doubled
the eiderdown over myself and tried to sleep and the feeling left
me shghtly, but came back again stronger than ever and far more
intense. While I wondered what I could do a yellow-blue ray
came right across the room and I at once blamed the housemaid
(to myself) for not drawing the '
Raid '
cmtains together, thinking
it was a Ught from the garage outside. I looked to make sure,
but the curtains were all well together, and as I looked the ray
moved right across the foot of my bed and then came round
right across in front of where I lay. I watched, not at all
nervously, and something like a crumpled filmy piece of chifion
unfolded and the beautiful wavy top of Eldred's head appeared,
a few seconds and his forehead and broad, beautiful brow appeared,
still it waited and his lovely blue eyes came, but no mischievous
twinkle, but a great intensity. It all shook and quivered, then his
nose came. More waiting and quivering and then his tiny
Uttle moustache and mouth. At this point he turned his head
very slightly and looked right into my face, and moistened his
lips slightly with his tongue. I kept quite quiet, but it quivered
and shook so much and no chin came, and in my anxiety I put
out my hands and said :
" Eldred, I see you," and it all flickered
quite out, Hght and all. It is possible it might have been a
dream, one never can be certain at night, but in my own mind
I am satisfied it was not. The eiderdown was doubled over me
46 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1919.
in tlie morning when I was called, and it is not one of my habits
to do things in my sleep. I certainly never slept after this, and
I got slightly this cold feeling once or twice after and continued
small rays several times during that night. Eldred referred to
it through Mrs. Leonard in Jan. 1918. F. M. B. B.
5. The percipient in the other case was Miss ^ta Highett
(Captain Bowyer-Bower's fiancee), who describes it to Mrs.
Bowyer-Bower thus :
The Lodge, Hythe.
January ith, [1918].
... I think I will tell you something that happened to me
a short time ago. I certainly did not dream it, or imagine
it, but of course it may be something to do with my brain.
I was going to tell you before, only I thought you would think
me mad. I heard a number of raps when I was in bed and I
began to talk to Eldred, and asked him tn rap" twice if he was
ever going to show himself to me. Almost inimediately two raps
came ; I waited a long time but saw nothing. Then I went
to sleep. Afterwards I woke up and looked round and saw
Eldred on the bed beside me, he was wearing his blue suit. I
sat up and started talking to him, [Miss Highett records what she
said, and that " his lips started to move " and made a reply
" just above a whisper "]. I then tried to touch him, but my
hand went through him, and Uke a fool I started to cry, and
he disappeared. . . .
A letter from Mrs. Bowyer-Bower to Mr. Wales, written
on May 30, 1918, states that "Miss Highett had her vision
in Dec. [1917]..." In a subsequent letter, written in reply to
questions put to her by Mr. Wales, Miss Highett writes
:
Saturday I5th, [June, 1918].
... At the time of my vision I knew of the experiences of
Mrs. Bower and Mrs. Watson and Mrs. Chater's child. [Miss
Highett did not, however, know of the experience of Mrs. Spear-
man. See date of Mrs. Spearman's letter.] You wish to know
what 1 did between my waking and seeing the vision. As a
matter of fact I saw Mrs. Bower's son as soon as I woke up.
After having seen the vision I switched on the electric light,
which is by my bed, to look at the time and found it was four
o'clock in the morning. I think you will know by this that I
was perfectly awake. . .
."'
In a further letter to Mr. Wales Miss Highett says that
when she had this vision " Captain Bower seemed to have a,
light all round him that made him perfectly visible."
Apku,, 1!)19. Gases. 47
II. Appaeition at the Time of Death.
L. 1224.
The following case was brought to our notice by Mrs. Willett,
an Associate of the Society, who wrote to us concerning it
thus :
Fir Tree End, Hayward's Heath,
Sussex, November 7, 1918.
I inclose an account written from dictation by the Percipient
of an appearance to her of a friend who was dying at the time.
Ada Orr, who is a single woman between 50 and 60, has been
known to me nearly all her life. She is an absolutely truthful
and straightforward person. She is quite ready to answer any
questions, but particularly begs that the names of her friends
shall not be made public. Mrs. B is a very nervous woman,
and the subject of Mrs. S 's appearance has not been men-
tioned to her. Mary Willett.
The statement by the perci^nent enclosed with this letter
was as follows :
November 6, 1918.
I went to see Mrs B in Road, on October 4, 1918,^
[but] did not find her at home. As I came away from the
house, I distinctly saw Mrs. S who formerly lodged with
Mrs. B standing by the corner of the house. Just like
a puff of cold air seemed to go over me. I saw exactly how
she was dressed. I noticed she was wearing her black hat
with a ribbon bow at the side. Her face was quite distinct.
Having seen her so distinctly as I came roand the corner of
the house, the next moment she had disappeared. I felt qiute
a creepy feeling all over me. At this time, I afterwards found
Mrs. S was dying at the Cuckfield Infirmary—Mrs. B
having gone to see her. She passed away at 2 a.m. the next
morning. When I saw Mrs. B a few days later she told
me about Mrs. S and how she had longed to go " home
to die." She said this many times, but the doctor would not
agree to her being removed. Before her death Mrs. S had
told her daughter how much she wished to see me.
[Signed] Ada Orr.
A further statement was obtained from Miss Orr, partly
in reply to questions put by us, and partly by Mrs. Willett,
who kindly saw Miss Orr on our behalf. According to the
information thus received. Miss Orr did not mention her
experience to anyone before she heard of Mrs. S 's death,
except "to an unknown woman passing by" Mrs. B 's
house at the time. The date of her visit to Mrs. B and
^ By an error this date was first given as October 3, see below. —Ed.
48 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, apiul, 1919.
of her seeing the apparition is, however, clearly fixed in her
mind, as she told Mrs. Willett, by the circumstance that these
events occurred on the day on which she heard of the birth
of a great-niece. Mrs. Willett informs us that the child was
born on October 3. 1918, and the postcard annoimcing the
birth was received by Miss Orr on October 4, 1918. The
mistake in Miss Orr's original statement, in which the date
of her visit to Mrs. B was given as October 3, arose
doubtless through that being the date of the child's birth
by means of which she had fixed the date of her experience.
A written statement was obtained from Miss Orr on this
point, thus :
December 17, [1918].
I remember the date by hearing of the birth of my niece's
Baby which I heard of by P.O. on the day that I saw Mrs. S .
A. M. Oer.
In reply to a question as to how recently she had seen
Mrs. S and what she knew about her state of health,
Miss Orr wrote on November 13, 1918, thus :
[I] had not seen her for at least three months when she was
taken away from Mrs. B 's to the Infirmary. I had no
idea her end was near. At the time I saw her I had had a long
walk and was *^ired, thought I would call at Mrs. B 's for
a rest, and heard afterwards she was with Mrs. S who was
dying, which I knew nothing about. Ada Ore.
In regard to the date of Mrs. S 's death, independent
testimony was obtained through the Curate of the Parish,
who WTote thus :
December 13, 1918.
I have just found out—quite indirectly—from Mrs. B that
Mrs. S died at Cuckfield Infirmary on Saturday, October 5th,
at 2 a.m. H. E. W.
It will be seen that it was not possible in this case to obtain
corroborative evidence from any one to whom Miss Orr had
related her experience prior to her knowledge of Mrs. S 's
death ; but her original statement was made only a month
after the experience occurred, when it was still fresh in her
mind, and there appears to have been nothing in the circum-
stances, as known to Miss Orr at the time, which would
lead her to imagine that she saw Mrs. S . Miss Orr teUs
us that she has never had any similar experience before, but
her sister had one many years ago.
Nos. CCCLV.-CCCLVL—Vol. XIX. May-June, 1919
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Notice of Meeting, 49
New MemVjei-s and Associates, 00
Meeting of the Council, 50
General Meeting, 51
Appointment of American Agent, 51
A Sixteentli Century Instance of " Elongation," 51
Case, 56
Obituary, - . - - , . .
5S
Correspondence, ----- 60
Reviews, 70
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society.
WILL BE HELD AT
THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF MEDICINE
(IN THE ROBERT BARNES HALL)
I WIMPOLE STREET, LONDON, W.
On FRIDA Y, JUL Y ^t/i, 19 19, at 5.30 p.ni.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" The Psychological Foundations of the Belief in
Spirits
"
WILL BE READ BY
Dr. C. J. JUNG (of Ziirich).
N.B.
—
Membeis and Associates will be admitted o?t signing t/ieir names
at the door. Visitors will be admitted on the production of
an invitation card signed by a Member or Associate. Each
'. .. Member or Associate is allowed to invite one friend.
A
50 Jo^irnal of Society for Psychical Research. mat-June, 1919.
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Smatj. Capitals.
Oarew, Mrs. R. T., 4 Ti-ebovir Eoad, London, S.W. 5.
Carter, Mrs. F. M., 'ioi Union Street, Aberdeen, Scotland.
Constable, Mrs., 97 Kempe Road, Brondesbury, London, N.W. fi.
Gill, A. Wilson, M.D., Chatterley Cottage, Hanley, Stoke-on-Trent.
Hall, Captain Basil, R.N., Charing Cross Road, London, W.C.
Karstaedt, Louis, 5863 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, U..S.A.
Knoblock, Edward, G2 The Albany, Piccadilly, London, W.
Preedy, Kenelm, 84 Philbeach Gardens, London, S.W.
Smith, Mrs. Wansey, 71 Queen's Avenue, Church End, Finchley,
London, N. 3.
Winby, Lieut. -Colonel L. P., Royal Automobile Club, Pall Mall,
London, S.W. 1.
Wood, T. Eugene, The Limes, Kedleston Road, Derby.
Fryer, Mrs. F., 9 St. Peter's Grove, York.
Glover, Cedi'jc H., 35 Steeles Road, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
Hassan, Princess Aziza, 139 Mahmoudia, Alexandria, Egypt.
HoDSON, L. J., Tlie Mill House, Robertsbridge, Sussex.
Isaac, Miss Edith, The Lodge, Kempsey, Worcester.
Leslie, Rev. G. Lindsay, The Manse, Eddleston, Peeblesshire.
LuNN, Arnold, Palace Hotel, Montana, Sur Sierre, Switzeiland.
Marsden, E., 12 EUerdale Road, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
Marshall, Miss Iris, Seacourt, Hayling Island, Hants.
McLaren, Miss Mary C, Great Comp, Borough Green, Kent,
Page-Turner, F. A., J. P., 15 Palmeira Square, Hove, Sussex.
Place, Rev. Charles A., Lancaster, Mass., U.S.A.
Plenty, E. P., Hill House, Wash Hill, Newbury, Berks.
Stacey, F. C, 5 Fulready Road, Leyton, London, E. 10.
Steele-Perkins, George, M.D., 30 Weymouth Street, Portland
Place, London, W.
Wilkinson, Miss Marian S., 7 The Avenue, Clifton, Yoi'k.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 162nd Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, April 11th, 1919, at .3 p.m.;
Mat-June, 1919. Meeting of the Cotmcil. 51
Mb. Gerald W. Bal"four in the chair. There were also
present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Sir
Lawrence Jones, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington,
Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick ; also Mrs.
Salter, Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Eleven new Members and sixteen new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for February and March, 1919, were
presented and taken as read.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 158th General Meeting of the Society was held at The
Steinway Hall, Lowei: Seymour Street, London, W., on Friday,
April lith, 1919, at 4.30 p.m.
A Presidential Address was delivered by Lord Rayleigh,
O.M., F.R.S., which will be published later in Proceedings.
APPOINTMENT OF AMERICAN AGENT.
Thk F. W. Faxon Co., 83 Francis Street, Boston, Mass., have
been appoirifced the Society's Agent in America.
Subscriptions should therefore be paid to the F. W. Faxon
Co. Orders for extra copies of the Proceedings and JournoJ
should also be sent to them, together with payment for the
same.
A SIXTEENTH CENTURY INSTANCE OF "ELONGATION."
By the Rev. Herbert Thurston, S.J.
The phenomenon of " elongation " is of comparatively rare
occurrence among alleged manifestations of the physico-psychic
order. The case of D. D. Home has, of course, been widely
and fully discussed, but materials for comparison are not
abundant, and some account of an out-of-the-way sixteenth
century example may possibly be of interest. The details
52 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May-June, 1919.
which I here submit are derived from the Process of Beatifi-
cation of an Italian nun, Veronica Laparelli, who was born
in 1537 and died in 1620.
Although the Process has never been completed, the delay
was not due, I fancy, to any lack of the necessary evidence,
but probably only to want of funds, for a process of beatifi-
cation, like a private bill in parliament, entails considerable
outlay in taking evidence, printing reports, paying copyists,
etc., and when such a process drags on for fifty or a hundred
years the interest of promoters is apt to slacken. In the
case of Veronica Laparelli the first stages were successfully
carried through, and a fat volume of the usual blue-book
size enshrines the Positio super dubio an. constet de Virtutibus
Fide Spe el Charitate et Cardinalibus . . . in gradu heroico, in
other words a statement of the claim of this particular servant
of God to have practised virtue in a heroic degree. The
printed volume to which I refer ^ includes, as is usual, a full
summary of the evidence given by witnesses on oath before
both the " ordinary " and " apostolic " commission. Such
a blue-book, if we may so describe it, was intended exclusively
for the use of the members of the Congregation of Sacred
Rites charged with the examination of the cause, and references
are given throughout to the official report of the depositions,
preserved in the archives of the Congregation. The portion
of the volume which concerns us here is that which describes
the ecstasies {estasi, ratti) of Suor Veronica. In middle life
(about 1560 to 1590) she undoubtedly experienced many such
trances, but, as often in other similar cases, they do not
seen* to have continued in old age. Hence the depositions
taken during the " Processus ordinarius," i.e. the bishop's
commission, which sat in 1629, are somewhat less satisfactory
than might othepwise have been expected, owing to the fact
that at that date Veronica's own contemporaries were mostly
either dead or very aged. Itx seems, however, that one of
the nuns, Suor Margherita Cortonesi, afterwards Abbess, wrote
a life of Veronica while she was yet living.
' Tlie copy I liave used is in the library of the British Museum. It is
catalogued under "Veronica (Laparelli), Saint,"—this is a mistake; she is not
in fact canonized—and was printed in Rome in 1747. The press mark is
1229, h, 7.
Mat-Junk, 1919. Instance of " Elongation." 53
This document was presented in evidence. Further, there
were a few of the nuns, and some externs, who had a clear
recollection of the ecstasies, while others deposed to what they
had heard about them from the older generation now passed
away. Perhaps the most extraordinary of these trances was
one which once came upon Veronica when she was ringing
a joyous peal upon the convent bell on the eve of the great
festival of St. Francis. The bell went on and on, without
stopping, and on going out to discover the cause, they found
that Veronica had fallen into an ecstasy without interrupting
the occupation upon which she was engaged. The ringing
continued for three hours, during which they tried in vain
to awaken her from the trance. Her hand gxasped the beU
rope so firmly that it was impossible to wrest it from her,
and in the end they found it necessary to cut the rope.
But even this operation, attended necessarily by a cessation
of the noise and a diminution of the muscular effort, did not
bring her to herself, and she went on for some time in the
trance state, moving her arm up and down as before.^ On
the feast of the Conversion of St. Paul (Jan. 25th) she used
for many years in succession to fall into an ecstasy which lasted
for fifty or sixty hours.
The Archpriest of Cortona (the convent to which Veronica
belonged was at Cortona), the Very Rev. Letio Passermi,
aged sixty-seven, deposed that in his youth he had seen her
when she had already been three days in that state. " She
was kneeling," he said, " with her hands joined, her face
tm'ned to heaven, her eyes open, fixed and unblinking " [con
gV occhi aperti e fissi che non battevano niente).'^ It was
known to all the community, as the manuscript Life, already
spoken of, attests, that on some of these occasions "'she was
raised above the ground.
Mother Plautilla Semboli, a nun who in 1629 when she
gave evidence was seventy-four years of age, deposed that the
said Suor Veronica had many ecstasies and raptures, and that
she herself had frequently seen her in this state. " In parti-
cular," she went on, " my late father, Averardo Semboli, on
one occasion came to the gTate of the convent and found there
Sister Veronica, kneeling in ecstasy, and he said to me, '
look
^ " Summarium in op. cit. p. 14"2. - /'*. p. 140.
54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May-June, 1919.
and see what it is that Sister Veronica has under her knees,
for she seems to me to be taller than her ordinary stature '
;
and I thereupon put my haiid under her knee and I found
that she was lifted up above the ground." ^ Another witness,
not a nun, one Signora Magdalena Alari, aged sixty-five,
deposed that she had three times seen Suor Veronica in
ecstasy, and on one occasion raised from the ground as much
as a palm (? 10 inches), or a little more according to the account
of some of the nuns. After which the witness goes on :
" And, as I stated above, I sav; her three times, on different
days, when one of the nuns aforesaid took a stick and passed
it under the knees of the said Suor Veronica, so that the
people who were there present might see that the said Suor
Veronica in her ecstasy was raised above the gxound. She
knelt {stava) with her hands joined, motionless, her eyes
fixed, and such a nimiber of people came to look at her
that the chapel was full of them. Suor Veronica, who had
come there to say her prayers, was inside the grate, which '
was then opposite the altar of the Blessed Sacrament." ^
"With regard to the fact of elongation the evidence is less
precise than one could wish, but in the process of 1629 the
manuscript life by Suor Margherita Cortonesi was cited to the
following effect
:
" On one occasion, among others, when she (Veronica) being
in the trance state was reciting her ofiice alternately with
some invisible being, she was observed gradually to stretch
out imtil the length of her throat seemed to be out of all
proportion (pareva facesse 'una gala lunga fuori di misura) in
such a way that she was altogether much taller than usual.
We, noticing this strange occurrence, looked to see if she was ,
raised from the ground, but this, so far as our eyes could
tell us, was not the case. So, to make sure, we took a yard-
measure {canna) and measured her height, and afterwtrds
when she had come to herself we measured her again and she
was a " span " (at least ten inches) shorter. This we have seen
with our own eyes all of us nuns who were in the chapel."" ^
The second piece of evidence is second-hand, but it was
^ Stmiinnriitm, p. 138. - Snmmarium, p. 141.
"'
Summarlum, p. 144.
May-June, 1919. Instance of " Elongation." 55
given in 1629 and is quite definite. Donna Hortenzia Ghini,
aged sixty-nine, then deposed that :
" Sister Lisabetta Pancrazi, formerly a nun in the said
convent, told me that on one occasion seeing that the said
Sister Veronica when in ecstasy seemed taller than m hef
normal state she took a yard-measure (canna) and measured
her height, and that after the said Sister Veronica came to
herself she measured her again with the said yard-measure,
and she found that she was half an arm's length {un mezzo
hraccio) shorter ; and this I know because I heard the said
Sister Lisabetta say it, as I said above." ^
Witnesses in the " Apostolic " enquiry held in 1728, a
hundred years later, evidently exaggerated the facts observed.
They, at that date, could only speak of the traditions surviving
in the convent. The story, of course, had grown, and some
nuns declared that in her trances Sister Veronica was at times
twice her normal height. Clearly, such evidence as this is
quite worthless, while even the depositions just cited are by
no means as full or as direct as one would wish. But the
point I would lay stress upon, even more than the evidence
itself, is the extreme unlikelihood of these enclosed nuns having
invented such a detail as the elongation of Veronica's throat
and body. They certainly knew nothing of Jamblichus, and
while instances of levitation are very common in such records
of saintly mystics, I have never previously come upon a case
of apparent elongation. Moreover, this particular feature was
evidently quite new to the Promotor Fidei (the "Devil's
Advocate ") whose duty it was to criticise the evidence and
call attention to weak points. In his Animadversiones he
singles out among other details this incident of the reported
elongation. It seems rather to have shocked him.
"Furthermore," he says, "we may note a certain unUkeli-
hood and incongTuity in the fact, as stated in the Summarium
(p. 141), that on one occasion the body of the servant of
Grod. when in ecstasy, stretched out and grew beyond its
natural measure, while other witnesses extend the same pheno-
menon to occasions when she was praying without any ecstasy.
And thereupon he goes on to remark that this elongation was
not only intrinsically improbable, but that it could serve no
^ SHinmarium, p. 141.
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May-.Tune, 1919.
purpose of edification or utility. It could uot help the servant
of God herself, and would excite repulsion and alarm rather
than devotion in the beholder.^
And there, I think, we may leave the matter, with the
remark that even if the nuns Avere unscrupulous enough to
be willing to fabricate evidence, they would not be likely
to invent things calculated to prejudice rather than to aid
the cause they had at heart.
CASE.
L. 1225. Telepathic.
The following case of a dream which appears to have had
a telepathic origin has been sent to us by the dreamer, Mrs.
Hanson, who has been an Associate of the Society for some
years. _
An account of her experience was received from Mrs. Hanson
as follows :
Pleasaunce Cottage, Dorman's Park,
Nr. East Grinstead, January 7, 1919.
I thought the enclosed dream might be of interest to the
Society for Psychical Researeli, of which I have been an Associate
for several years, so am sending details.
Since the summer of 1915 I have, first personally and later
through the Prisoners of War Care Committee, been sending
regular parcels to Lance-Corporal W. D ,
Royal Scots Fusiliers
Regiment, prisoner first at Doberitz and later at Guben, Branden-
burg.
I do not know the man or his family personally, and heard of
him through a friend who was interesting herself in the British
Prisoners. Apart from occasional J)ostcards thanking me for the
parcels, and two photographs and a group taken at the Prison,
I have had no other correspondence with the man. Since the
Armistice I have naturally awaited with interest any news that
I might receive from him. I was away for Xmas, and as I had
heard nothing from him I began to wonder if he was all right,
and determined on my return to write to his wife and ask her
if she had received any news.
' Animadrersione», p. 13.
Mat-June, 1919. Case. 57
I had a good deal of correspondence to get through, and put
off writing until Sunday, Jan. 5th. The previous night (Sat.
Jan. 4th) I had a very vivid dream twice repeated, in fact I
could be almost sure it came three times, but of twice I am
certain. In the dream I was with my husband in some strange
place talking to L.-C. D . We shook hands with him, and he
said he was safe home. He was dressed in a dark imiform
similar to that of one of the photographs he sent me. In
the morning (Jan. 5th) when I woke up I told my husband, and
also the maid when she came to wake us. I enclose both their
statements to this effect. The impression left by the dream was
so vivid that I did not write to Mrs. D ,
thinking I would
wait a day or two longer in case I might hear of her husband's
arrival. This morning (Jan. 7th) I received a p.c. which I also
enclose, dated by postmark Jan. 5th, from L./C. D saying he
had just arrived at Leith. Therefore when I was dreaming that
he was safely home he must have nearly reached Leith , . ,
I am not in the habit of dreaming much, and seldom remember
my dreams, and only once before, a good many years ago, have
I ever had anything of interest in this way. M. R. Hanson.
A corroborative statement was enclosed from Mrs. Hanson's
husband, thus :
January 7, 1919.
On the morning of Jan. 5th, shortly after 7 a.m., my wife
told me she had had two most vivid dreams about her Prisoner
of War, a man named D . She said that she and I met
him in a strange jilace, that we shook hands with him, and he
said he was safe home.
My wife told me she was sure we should hear something of
him very shortly. B. F. Hanson.
A further corroborative statement was enclosed from Mrs.
Hanson's maid, thus
:
January 7th, 1919.
I beg to say that at 7.15 on the morning of the 5th of January,
I called Mr. and Mrs. Hanson. Mrs. Hanson said : " I have
had such a vivid dream of D ," meaning a Prisoner of War,
that she through the Red Cross had been sending parcels to, and
Mrs. Hanson said : "I was in a strange place with Mr. Hanson
and saw D——,'"
in the suit that he had sent her a photograph
58 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May-June, 1919.
of himself, and site said, " I woke up, and went to sleep and
dreamt of him again."
In a little over 40 hours I took a postcard to Mrs, Hanson
and said, " I think it's hom D ." I might say I have been
in service for Mr. and Mrs. Hanson some years. M. 0.
The postcard to which Mrs. Hanson refers in her statement
has an Edinburgh postmark, dated 4 p.m., January 5, 1919.
It reads :
I have just landed at Leith, and am going on to
Prisoners of War Recej)tion Camp,
South Camp,
Ripon.
[Signed] L./C. W. D
R.S.F.
It appears, therefore, as Mrs. Hanson says, that at the time
of her dream, the night of January 4-5, 1919, Lance-Corporal
D was approaching Leith. The intention of sending a
postcard to Mrs. Hanson may well have been in his mind at
the time, since he despatched it immediately on his arrival.
The coincidence is not a very striking one, but it seems
worth while to put it on record, in view of the fact that Mrs.
Hanson does not frequently dream, or at any rate remember
her dreams, and that this particular dream was vivid and was
repeated at least twice during the night.
OBITUAEY.
Charles Mason Barrows.
We have received from Mr. Arthur 0. Christensen of Brooklyn,
N.Y., some account of the life and work of Charles Mason
Barrows, who was for many years an Associate of the Society
for Psychical Research and died in 1918. In 1896 he con-
tributed an article to Proceedings (Vol. XII. pp. 21 ff.) entitled
*'
Suggestion without Hypnotism."
Mr. Barrows, who was born in 1838, appears to have become
interested in the question of cure by suggestion at quite
an early age, and for many years he practised healing with
considerable success. He himself gives some account of the
Mat-Jone, 1919. Obituary. 59
results he achieved in the article to Proceedings which is
mentioned above ; as its title implies Mr. Barrows did not
use hypnotism, but gave the suggestion to his patients in a
waking state.
Perhaps the most interesting, though not the most successful
part of his work, was his prolonged effort during the latter
years of his life to cure deafness by suggestion, and in par-
ticular deaf-mutism. He turned his attention to this subject
first at the end of 1901, and in 1904, when he was living in
Boston, he got into touch with Alexander Graham Bell, Presi-
dent of the American Association to Promote the Teaching of
Speech to the Deaf, and a Committee was appointed to enquire
into his methods. Partly with the assistance of Dr. Hodgson,
then Secretary of the American Branch of the S.P.R., ten
j)upils were obtained, but the results achieved, although not
without interest, were inconclusive.
In 1907 JVIr. Barrows moved to New York, where he con-
tinued his experiments.
Florence Linsky seems to have been the star pvipil. . . Letters
from her parents and a doctor state that she was totally deaf
and dumb when she began treatment, but that she became
normal in hearing and speech. John P. Hines of the St. Matthew's
Roman Catholic Church at 216 W. 68th St., New York, wrote
on Jan. 5, 1910 :
" I have known her (Florence Linsky) from
infancy. She had spinal meningitis . . . which left her totally
deaf . . . convinced me beyond a doubt that the girl hears as
Avell as the average. . . . She easily heard and repeated words
and sentences which I spoke to her . . . under conditions that
23revented her getting any help from sight."
Mr. Barrows also seems to have had some success with a
man called Holton " between thirty and thirty-five years old,
deaf and dumb from his birth."
The course began May 18th. All summer treatments were
•continued. On June 12th Holton wrote :
" When I am quiet
around my work I hear some fellows talking. It does not last
longer than one or two minutes, but the hearing is getting clearer
and stronger. When I first heard it was very faint, but now
is about four times as clear."" On June 30th, " I told Mrs.
Holton I would prove I could hear trolley cars. . . . She was
60 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May-June, 1919.
surprised. I told her a piano was playing next door. She
did not believe me, and I told her to go and see. She was
surprised to find it was." On July 8th : "I don't know what
some soimds I hear are. The hearing is really increasing." . . .
On Jan. 24, 1914, in a carefully written report, Mr. Luther H.
Holton, cousin of Charles, . . . wrote: "We are satisfied that
C. N. B. Holton has acquired the ability to hear certain sounds."
Still the case was not conclusive.
Unfortunately Holton seems to have become impatient of
the treatment, and it was given up. Mr. Barrows continued
his efforts up to within a very short time of his death, but
he does not seem to have attained any results more definite
than those c[uoted above. He worked to the last, however,
with disinterested enthusiasm.
COEEESPONDEXCE.
PERSONAL APPEARANCE OF THE DEPARTED.
I.
I'o the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
April 8, 1919.
Dear Madam,—Dr. Jacks will hardly expect a reply from me
to his interesting discussion in the February—March Journal.
He is seeking to find the simplest explanation of certain
phenomena, but of course well knows that what we really need
is not the simple but the true. He will say the simplest must
also be the truest, and I agree; but we cannot always judge
what is really the simplest, until our knowledge is adequate.
I go further, and say that the true explanation of anything is
not only in the long run the most simple, it is unique. A
problem has not two solutions but only one. Yet, as in a chess
problem, a number of false solutions appear at first sight both
simple and attractive, while the real solution may appear
strange and unlikely. Inevitably so in a period of half
knowledge. Only when we fairly grasp the whole can the
beautiful simplicity of reality conspicuously appear.
An astronomical structure for the atoms of matter, if suggested
20 years ago, would have appeared absurdly complicated, and
the lines in the spectrum of an element were felt to be almost
hopeless in their variety ; yet law and order are dawning through
Mat-June, 1919. Corresponclen ce. 61
the mist, and a wonderful generalisation is beginning to appear.
At present we psychic enquirers may feel sometimes like asking
"Who shall roll vis awav the stone from the door of the
sepulchre"? But v.dien we arrive at the door we may find that
the stone is rolled away.
Oliver Lodge.
II.
To the Editor of tJir Jovrn-al of the S.P.R.
Dear ]\L4.dam, —Dr. Jacks savs that "these appearances, as
described by mediums, seem to indicate not such knowledge as
a person would have of what he looks (or looked) like, but rather
the view of an external observer." I now offer an argument
which, if sound, proves that Dr. Jacks is right : the experience
of mediums must, if veridical to us as evidence, give these
appearances as those concerned were known to us, not merely as
they are or were known to themselves.
In the discussion of the question raised it would appear that
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick's exhaustive paper on the '"Psychology of
Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena" (Proc, Vol. XXVIII.) has
not been referred to. I tliink. if the theory she suggests be
accepted, the problem before us is simplified. But, of course,
any deductions I may suggest, I alone am responsible for.
Now we (nearly?) all dream, and in dreams we picture other
people to ourselves as we kneic them. Most of these dreams pass
away from us in memory. But some few do not so pass. Many
probably, like myself, have had innumerable dream.s which have
all passed away: all passed away but some very few. Why have
these few remained marked and distinguished in memory ? Because
of something distinct and separate from the appearance. The
appearance is like all other dream experiences, but at its time
of appearance it is uniquely marked as no more than the projected
appearance- on our mortal plane of a spirit. We feel this, do
not know it. It is the strength of this feeling which stereotypes
the experience in memory. But, in every case, the appearance
is of the person as known to us, not as known to itself. We
feel that the spirit has "put on" its anthropomorphic appearance
purely for the purpose of appearing to and being recognised by
us as we Icnew it on earth.
And here, with all respect, I must differ from Dr. Jacks. He
says "I should expect my departed friend to manifest himself
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May-June, 1919.
as lie had become iu the meantime; instead of which he manifests
as he was a long time ago." . , .
•
.
If metempsychosis be true and the departed friend has, after
death, taken on some other material form^that of a bear ? —he
could manifest himself as he had become in the meantime, though
it is doubtful, even in such case, that he would be recognised.
But if, after death, he has form—even etherial form—which has
never been part of our human experience, he could not manifest
himself as he had become. Any such appearance to us would
be meaningless,—for all thought is relative. In order to appear
he must appear as we knew him. Otherwise we could by no
possibility recognise him,—unless in ecstasy.
It has been well said that there are three John Smiths : one
known to his God ; one to himself ; one to others. If the John
Smith known to himself and to others be the same, then cadit
qitaest'io. But assume they are not the same? Then John
Smith, in order to appear to others and be recognised, must
appear as they knew him.
In fact we dramatize ourselves not only to others, but to
ourselves. What we know of each other is the dramatized " I,"
and for a departed friend to appear to us and be recognised he
must appear as he was dramatized for us and not for liimself.
I worry out this question in "Myself and Dreams."
Mrs. Sidgwick's suggested theory agrees, I think, with human
experience and still leaves open the possibility of communication
from spirits. But with such communication we are not now
concerned.
Mrs. Piper, when in trance, dreams: dreams even of Julius
Caesar, clad in helmet and armour, with a sword, flying in search
of a Mexican cowboy ; dreams of him so engaged in company,
it would appear, with D. D. Home, Alexander the Great, Proteus
and others. I think we must assume that iu all such dreams she
dreamt of personages as they appeared to her, not as they
appeared to themselves.
I refer to Mrs. Piper's subjective dreams not for the purpose
of throwing contempt, but to emphasize the fact that some q£
her dreams are of individuals, imaginary or real, who appear to
her as pictured by herself not by themselves. Pier dreams are
like to our own dreams. If they diifer it is in degree not in
kind.
Now with Mrs. Piper we find sometimes what Mrs. Sidgwick
May-June, 1919. Correspondence. 63
lias termed "flashes of iutelligeuce." Telergic messages are said,
at times, to get through from a communicator ; that is, the
communicator appears himself to use Mrs. Piper's brain as a
machine directly : he does not, first, affect her spirit and make
her spirit use its brain for the message to emerge. (But cf. Proc,
Vol. XXVIII., p. 320.)
But is there any veridical case, where a "flash of intelligence"
has got through, qua appearance? Is such a thing possible for
Mrs. Piper herself, quite apart from the question of the evidence
of it she could offer us if it occurred ?
Let us assume that, in trance, Mrs. Piper's spirit is so free
from the body that she is in communion with other spirits, though
the assumption is a bold oue. Even with this assumption it
would be impossible for Mrs. Piper to give us any evidence of
how these spirits appear to themselves or even as they appear to
her : there is no language in existence to express such appearances.
Por language can only use ideas for expression, and really spiritual
appearances transcend ideas. I agree with William James that
ecstasy is part of human experience. But the records of ecstasy
are all anthropomorphic.
I agree with Mrs. Sidgwick as to the relation which exists
between Mrs. Piper on the one hand and her controls and
communicators on the other. But this hypothesis, as she points
out, does not interfere with any assumption as to telepathy from
the dead.
We have not before us for consideration the personal experience
of mediums: all we have is the fvidencc they offer of their
experience.
If, free in spirit, mediums are in communion with disembodied
spirits, they can offer no evidence of what is the appearance of
spirits in reality : on return from the state of ecstasy no language
is found available to express the past experience.
But, it is now assumed, the disembodied do return in such form
that mediums can give evidence to us of their appearance. For
this evidence to have any weight with us what must its nature
be ? It is worthless to us unless we ourselves recoenise the
personality in question.
It follows that the appearance, in order that we should recognise
it, must be of the person as known to us, not as known to itself.
_ . F. C. Constable.
6'4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May-June, 1919.
III.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.E,.
Dear Madam,—Dr. Jacks in the Journal for February-March
seems to find difficulties where perhaps there are none, as to th&
power of spirits to build up bodies—or to suggest what he calls
for tlie moment an (a<<obiographical representation of themselves.
It would appear that even on this plane each of us has an
inherent idea what he or she looks like, and any Art-school
master knows that in drawing from the life the tendency
of the student is to reproduce him or herself, so that a tall
student will have a tendency to draw the model tall and a short
student makes the opjDosite mistake, and so with other attributes,
as fatness or thinness. Artists have a tendency also to draw
themselves. Cruickshank's model in very many of his illustrations
was undoubtedly himself, and this effect was an unconscious one.
Anyone with a capacity to draw will be able to draw himself not
only front but sid© face, and will also make a fair representation
of his back view.
This, I think, will be found to be undisputed.
If the spirits then have tlie power of building up a form, it
requires no supposition of a miracle on their part to build up a
form which shall be like themselves as they were m life.
As to the incident of the unshakable door mentioned by Dr.
Jacks, the difficulty here arises from the word—the door was
"unshakable" and afterwards was shaken (apparently).
It would appear the adjective unshakable was wrongly used.
A. G. WiTHERBY.
IV.
To the Editor of tlie Journal of the S.P.R.
Dear Madam,—Is it not possible that when a medium gives a
description of the personal appearance of a departed spirit, th©
description is derived from what I may term a retrospective
vision of the deceased person, and his or her environment, when
alive upon earth ? This vision would be similar to retrospective
crystal visions in which past events are reproduced in exact detail
together with the characteristics of the persons who took part in
them.
Sucli a vision might be induced by telepathy from a sitter, or
by telepathy from a departed spirit v/ith whom the medium was
-May-June, 1919. Correspondence. 65
in some sort of communication. And the medium would not
necessarily knoAV from whom the telepathic influence was derived ;
or the date of the vision : or whether the person seen was alive
or dead.
Such visions were, I think, consciously seen by "Miss A.,"
who also received verbal communications from those she saw in
visions—crystal and otherwise. And, if I remember rightly,
Lady Radnor particularly noted that when "Miss A." described a
crystal vision at the time of seeing it, she usually spoke as if she
were in the midst of the people she described, not merely looking
at them in a moving picture.
I suggest that trance-mediums have similar visions, but,
through being unconscious, are unable to describe them as
visions in the way "Miss A.," who was alway.s fully conscious,
was able to do.
S. M. KiNGSFORD.
V.
To thr Editor of the Journal of the S.P.E.
April 28th, 1919.
Dear Madam,—Dr. Jacks in his interesting article in the
Journal for February-March, 1919, dealing with the question of
whether the personal descriptions given by a medium are the
alleged spirit's conception of his own appearance, or the view of
an external observer, seems, if I may venture to say so, to deal
too much with the a priori aspect of the subject.
Would not some a posteriori evidence throw more light on the
matter ? In other words, would it not be possible to collect and
record the differences, if any, between the descriptions given and
those remembered by the sitter and others ?
In this connection my own small experience may be worth
recording. A recent long, and in many ways very "evidential,"
sitting with Mrs. Leonard began with a description of my late
wife, as having dark brown hair and dark brown eyebrows. I
have asked several people who knew her well what they considered
the colour of her hair, and one and all have unhesitatingly
answered "black." But, and this is the point of my story, she
herself in life always vehemently alleged, in despite- of the
laughing contradiction of myself and her friends, that her hair
was dark brown.
Basil Hall.
. ^
• [This correspondence must now cease.—Ed.]
66 Jotirnal of Society for Psychical Research. mat-June, 1919.
CO-OPERATIVE AUTOMATISM.
To the Editor of tin- Journal of the S.P.R.
Jannary, 1919.
Dear Madam,—The most important advance in Psychical
Research that has been made in recent years has been the
institution of co-operation between two or more automatists.
This is true irrespective of the results obtained, as to thef
significance of which tliere is still room for much dispute. It
is the method that matters, and the introduction of a new
method into any science is an event of the first importance.
This new method, which may be called that of co-operative
automatism, was suggested in the first instance by an observed
concordance between the scripts of various automatists, and has
been developed almost entirely in the direction of securing
internal evidence of the activity of independent intelligences.
The privilege of initiating experiments is not confined to those
in charge of the experiments, but is even conceded to the very
'
controls '
'
whose nature is under investigation. It is what I
should call a very advanced method, and it is my object in
this letter to throw out a few suggestions for a programme
of very elementary experiments of a kind that seems to be in
danger of being overlooked in connection with that particular
class of automatisms generally included in the term automatic
wfiting. (I am not aware of a generic term which covers
automatic hand-writing, planchette writing, use of " Ouija board,"
etc., and suggest 'manual automatism' as being a convenient
phrase.)
When a scientific worker is confronted with a relatively
unknown conq^lex x, he can usually perceive or guess at the
outset that it is to some extent at least determined by certain
relatively better known factors or conditions a, h and c. If
the subject matter permits, he proceeds to vary the quantity
or incidence of a, h and c in order to watch the eifect on
oc. During the experimental process, other factors d and e
emerge, and in the end he is able to state x in terms of «, h, c, d
and ('. In the realm of Psychical Research x is usually a
highly elaborate complex about which we know very little. It
is therefore necessary to start, as it were, at the very beginning
and to vary in a systematic manner the most general and
' I u.se the word control in a general sense, as indicating any soi-disant
" comnumicator. '
May-Junk, liil9. Correspondence. 67
elementary conditions in which the phenomenon under observation
occurs.
We may now apply this principle to the case of manual
automatisms. Regarded objectively, every such automatism is
an event, determined in time, place and circumstances. Our
programme of experiments will require us to vary each of these
in turn in a scientific manner. Some experiments, of course,
would 'prove' more than others, and it will be useful, in
passing, to consider the evidential value of one or tv/o types
of experiment. Take each of the above 'conditions' in order.
I. Time.
(a) Sipichronized automatisms. I am not aware that any
systematic attempt has been made with two or more automatists,
working in different places, to obtain exactly simultaneous
messages from the same control. If, as the result of a series
of such experiments, it appeared that a given control never
manifests in two places at ])rccis(ly the same moment, it would
tend to show that a control is independent of the automatists
and is not a 'subliminal self of any one of them. If, on the
other hand, simultaneous messages were received, it would seem
to follow either that the control is not an independent entity,
or else that it can 'divide its attention' in a supernormal way.-'
(6) Periodic automatisms. The experimenter would then set
out to obtain at certain definite intervals of time a series of
messages from the same control through different automatists
and study any evidence there might be of development in time.
An experiment of this type was earned out by Mr. J. A. Hill,
and is described on pp. 240 and 241 of his book " Psycliical
Investigations." With a 'rapport' object which had belonged
to a person recently deceased he obtained through different
mediums results which varied from complete failure five days
after death, through partial failures, to '"considerable evidence"
of "identity and initiative" some five and a half months after
death. On the spiritist hypothesis, this apparent development
indicates a gradual waking up of the spirit of the deceased
person. Experiments of this type, however, though valuable,
iMr. Lambert does not seeiu to have takeu into account the possibility of
"deferred impressions," i.e. that an impression might not emerge until some
time after the automatist had received it. This possibility would greatly com-
plicate such an experiment as he suggests.
—
Ep.
68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May-Junk, 1919.
are by no means crucial in the sense of excluding any other
than the spiritist explanation. Psychometry might give the
medium (subconsciously) the simple information '
this object
belonged to a person who has been dead j: days or months,' and
the medium's constructive imagination, assisted by telepathy
from the sitter, would 'construct' a spirit with just the right
amount of development, according to the common belief among
spiritists that a period of sleep and gradual awakening follows
bodily death. I do not suggest that this is the right explanation,
but the mystery that surrounds psychometry obscures the issue
of all such experiments as formal proofs or even as evidence
of the theory they are usually supposed to confirm.
II. Place.
It seems to me a pity that the place where an automatism
occurs is not always recorded as an essential particular. The
question arises whether an automatist is more successful in one
place than another in obtaining messages from a given control.
Do places exercise a kind of '
rapport ' influence ? This seems
to be believed by persons who obtain historical details about
places by automatic writing, but I am not aware that this
circumstance has been systematically investigated in connection
with the evidence for or against the individuality and identity
of controls. Experiments in this field are urgently required to
throw additional light on the vexed hypotheses of '
clairvoyance,'
'cosmic memory,' 'spirit return' and so on.
III. Circumstances.
This term covers a very wide range of conditions, from the
emotional state of the automatist to the colour of the wallpaper
in the room, and opens up a wide field for experiment. It
must here suffice to suggest variations of two very general
conditions which may influence the phenomena under investigation,
viz. :
(a) preseuce or absence of liglit
(h) presence or absence of sifters.
It seems to be a well-established fact that white light has
as a rule a disintegrating effect on the 'mechanisms' which
produce telekinetic movements of material objects, but, so far
as I am aware, it does not interfere with manual automatisms.
The point of this observation will be made clea.r by what
Mat-June, 1919. Correspondence. 69
follows. Certain considerations almost compel the conviction
that, at any rate with some automatists, the movements of the
hand and arm are not centrally controlled through the mechanism
of brain, nerve and muscle, but are imposed, as it were, locally
by a kind of nascent ectenic force applied inside the arm (if
this contradiction in terms may be allowed). It is to be noted
that the interior of the arm (and of the whole body) is
protected by the blood in the capillaries from the direct incidence
of actinic rays, which are harmful to certain vital processes, and
provides a suitable place for the application of that force wliich,
when projected externally, causes telekinesis. Take, for instance,
the experiments described by Sir William Barrett in chapter xiv.
of his book "On the Threshold of the Unseen." The autoscope
(an ouija board) there spelt out messages from letters concealed
from the automatists and arranged in an order which was not
known to them. The suggestion of " locally-imposed " guidance
is here very strong.
The further question arises whether the recorder of the
messages has anything to do with the success of such experiments.
Does the operating force use his eyes to direct the hands of the
actual automatists? In other words, is he an unconscious
co-operator in the experiments ? I have not come across any
investigation of this possibility, which seems to me to be a real
one. To put this matter to the test, it would be necessary to
exclude the recorder of the message and devise some means of
keeping a mechanical record of the movements of the autoscope.
This might be done by covering the letters on the table with a
sheet of thin slightly frosted glass, such as that on which
children trace pictures, and by fitting a pencil as one leg of
the autoscope. The pencil would leave a trace as it moved
from letter to letter sufhciently clear, I imagine, to enable a
short message to be deciphered after the movement had ceased.
There are, of course, many other attendant circumstances that
might be varied. The field is a very wide one, and gives much
scope for ingenuity in devising experiments. The purpose of
them should be primarily to ascertain the ohji'ctivc factors that
determine the phenomena in question. The results would thus
not depend in any way on the veracity of the controls. Before
we proceed to the difficult task of trying to prove the identity
of individual controls, it seems to me of paramount importance
to study the nature of controls in general, and to find out
70 Journal of Society for Psychical Reseaixh. May-June, 1919.
what are their powers and liTiiitations in so far as their activities
come witliin the scope of our experience. There is a tendency
at present to concentrate attention on the subject matter of
automatic scripts and to pass by this other field for research.
There is, however, a real opportunity for systematic study in
the direction I have indicated. The mere task of setting out a
scientifically arranged programme of experiments would in itself
be a labour of no small magnitude, and the execution of the
work would require the co-operation of many "willing hands." ^
G. W. Lambert.
REVIEWS.
I.
S-piritualisin , Its History, Phenoi/iena and Doctrmc By
J. Arthuk Hill. With an Introduction by Sir Arthur
CoNAN Doyle. (Cassells.)
Tills brief notice of Mr. Hill's book must not be taken as a measure
of its merits, unless it be in inverse ratio. One might go into
detail and write several pages, but it would come to the same
thing ; one would only be saying at length what can be said
in a single sentence,—that the work is as admirable an intro-
duction to the study of Psychical Research as could be wished,
and a worthy successor to the valuable volumes on the same
subject that we have already had from the author's pen. One
may recommend it without hesitation to anyone who wishes to
obtain in compact form a comprehensive account of what
"spiritualism" ia, and what progress has been made in the
study of it up to the present. A short resuint of the book's
contents will show how wide is the ground traversed. The
matter is divided into two parts. The First Part, entitled
"Historical and Evidential," comprises chapters on the early
Antecedents of Modern Spiritualism, Swedenborg, Confluence
of Swedenborgianism and Mesmerism in America, the Hydesville
Knockings, Early Days in England, W. Stainton Moses, the
Society for Psychical Research, Physical Phenomena, Confirma-
tory Phenomena in India, Ghosts, and Evidence, Proof and
Belief. The Second Part, entitled "Religious Aspect and
Criticisms," deals with Spiritualism as a Religion, Materialistic
and other Objections, Roman Catholic and Mystical Objections,
Some Protestant Objections, Fechner's Theory of Life after
^ Mr. Lambert hardly makes sufficient allowance for the extreme ditficulty
of isolating such phenomena as tliose with which psychical research is cou-
cerned, and determining which amf)ng a multitude of concomitant circumstances
have been crucial in the result oliserved. But doubtless it is desirable that
systematic experiments should be tried, so far as is possible, and we therefore
print Mr. Lambert's letter as indicating one or two directions in which an
attempt might be made.
—
Ed.
May-June, 1919. Reviews. 71
Death, and Spiritualistic conceptions of After-Death Conditions.
In his final chapter Mr. Hill gives the conclusions at which
he himself has arrived. That he should carry his readers with
him to the adoption of all of them, he himself will not expect.
We have now left the objective for the subjective, and are
dealing with questions on which there will be difference of
opinion to the end of time. Tlius on one point, which this
is not the place to discuss at any length, I find myself in
complete disagreement with the authoT, and compelled to repeat
what T think I have had occasion to say before in this
connexion. I cannot understand how "spiritualism" can be
exalted into a religion, at least in any worthy sense of the
latter word ; more goes to the making of a religion than
spiritualism can ever furnish. T fail to see liow it could even
form a basis for religion. It has added nothing new to the
Christian religion ; it has only furnished confirmation of
certain truths which have always been an integral part of it,
and in the absence of which it would long ago liave fallen to
pieces. One other protest must be made On p. 5 Mr. Hill
quotes from a book by "a preacher and Principal of a
theological college," Dr. E. Griffith-Jones, as follows: "Among
the reasons for the decay of the influence of the Christian
pulpit during the past generation, one is undoubtedly the
fact that the doctrine of immortality has so largely lost its
place at the heart of the Christian message." This writer,
we must suppose, speaks from his own experience, but if he
is speaking for the Church of England or tlie Church of
Rome, I cannot imagiiie a statement more preposterously
nntrue. M. A. Bayfield.
II.
Voices from the Void. By Hester Travers Smith, with
Introduction by Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. William
Rider and Son, Ltd., London, 1919. Pp. 108. Price
3s. 6d. net.
In this volume Mrs, Travers Smith gives—what one would
expect from a daughter of the late Professor Edward Dowden
and wife of a Dublin physician —a careful and critical account
of her own psychical experiments, which have extended over the
last seven years. The method employed was that of the ouija
board, with two operators, usually a man and a woman, the
latter in most cases being Mrs. Smith. The letters were spread
on a table underneath a sheet of plate glass, and in some
experiments they were re-distributed so that the blindfolded
operators did not know the position of any letter. Messages
even under these conditions were rapidly spelt out by some of
the controls. But experience has shown the difficulty of complete
blindfolding, and—even when a screen was used as well—the
reader can never feel as sure as the experimenters perhaps quite
72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. jnIay-June, 1919.
legitimately felt, that the letters were not seen, subliminally if
not pupraliminally. The evidence for supernormal faculty is
therefor© mostly in the content of the messages.
The most striking cases are those of the pearl tie-pin (quoted
in Sir W. F. Barrett's book On the Threshold of the Unseen,
a-nd briefly described in tlie review, Journal S.P.R., Vol. XVIII.,
p. 59) and of Sir Hugh Lane, who purported to communicate
before the automatists became aware by normal means that he
was on the Lusitcmia. Mrs. Smith is "almost convinced" that
the communicator at this sitting and later ones—when he
expressed emphatic wishes about the disposal of his pictures
—
was what he claimed to be : but she does not expect the sceptical
reader to agree^ with her.
The regular "controls" were of the usual type: Peter Rooney,
an Irisli American whose story about his deatli in Boston turned
cut untrue ;
Eyeai—an Egyptian priest of the time of Raraeses
II. —wlio was sentimental, suave, and unreliable, personating
spirits whom he claimed to have brought ; Shamar, a Hindoo
woman, sensible and helpful; and so on. Thei:e persons'
identities being unverifiable, Mrs. Smith expresses no strong
opinion, though she naturally finds it difficult to believe that
they are fractions of her own mind. "Shamar" has the
peculiar power of "bringing" living people who are asleep, and
these often gave evidential messages, which they said they would
forget on awaking. Some of the controls are good at psychometry
also, though in most cases the phenomena might be accounted
for by telepathy from one of those present.
It is to be hoped that Mrs. Smith will continue her investi-
gations, for it is only by the study of a large collection of data
that we can expect to reach conclusions of any value. It is
still an open question whether in such phenomena we are dealing
entirely with the subliminal levels of the automatists' minds, or
whether some external intelligence is at work ; but in either
case experiment should teach something, about discarnate minds
or the methods of incarnate subliminals. In preparing any
later volumes Mrs. Smith will perhaps consider the desirabiUty
of giving full accounts of all sittings, instead of extracts ; also
of using "sitter" in the usual sense as meaning all those
assisting at the experiment, rather than as meaning only those
operating the traveller of the ouija-board, who may be called
the operators or automatists.
Sir William Barrett, who was present at many sittings,
discusses in his Introduction the various theories of "controls,"
and inclines to believe that some of them are separate entities.
Most investigators v/ill agree with him that we need to guard
against using "the subliminal self" with a comfortable feeling
that we have thereby explained things. The tenn is useful, but
it is often little more than a cloak for our ignorance.
. .. J. Arthur Hill.
No. CCCLVII.—Vol. XIX. July, 1919.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAOE
Obituary : Lord Rayleigli, 73
New Members and Associates, 74
Meeting of the Council, 75
Printing Fund, -
75
The "Masked Medium," -
76
Cases, - • 76
Correspondence, - - S8
Review, 92
The Rooms of tlie Society at 20 Hanover Square, London,
W. 1, will be closed after Friday, August 1st, re-opening on
Monday, September Sth.
The next number of the 'Journal' will be issued in October.
OBITUARY.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S.
We greatly regi-et to have to announce the death of
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S., which occurred on June 30,
1919, after a short illness. Lord Rayleigh had been a
Vice-President of the Society from its foundation in 1882
and a Member of the " Committee of Reference" from its
first appointment in 1885. At the time of his death
Lord Rayleigh was President of the Society, and his
Presidential Address, delivered on April 11, 1919, is
published in the current number of Proceedings. A
further account of Lord Rayleigh's life and work will
appear in the next number of Proceedings.
A
V4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1919.
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Crosfield, Miss Margaret C, Undercroft, Reigate, Surrey.
Dawson, Captain G. de H., R.A.M.C., Ashhurst War Hospital,
Littlemore, Nr. Oxford.
Fletcher, L. S., 3 Elm Court, Temple, London, E.G. 4.
Harris, Rev. Charles, D.D., Colwall Rectory, Malvem.
Heape, Mrs. Walter, 10 King's Bench Walk, Temple, London, E.G. 4.
Lee, Dr. H. D. C, Flat 2, 106 Gt. Portland Street, London, W. 1.
Macaulay, Miss Gertrude F., Gairnbrae, 109 The Boulevard,
Westmount, Montreal, Canada.
Mathews, Dr. Frank, Welsh Row House, Nantwich.
Nation, Captain Cecil, R.E., 10 Neville Terrace, Onslow Gardens,
London, S.^\'. 7.
Richardson, Dalton, M.D., 19 Chalfont Court, Upper Baker Street,
London, N.W. 1.
Shore, Mrs. Ross, 8 Delamere Terrace, Paddington, London, W. 2.
Wellesley, Victor A. A. H., C.B., -20 St. Loo Mansions, St. Loo
Avenue, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
AuNE, E., Ag. Asst. Supt. Revenue Surveys, Raub, Pahang, Fed.
Malay States.
Bevan, Arthur O., Townsend House, Nantwich, Cheshire.
Browne, O. H., H.H. The Nizam's Mint, Hyderabad, Deccan, India.
BuSHELL, Miss S. D., The Hermitage, Harrow-on-the-Hill.
EvERARD, Captain H. N., R.A.M.C, 21 Denning Road, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
Foster, Mrs. Garland, Balfour, B.C., Canada.
GouGH, Rev. E. P., The Parsonage, Spalding, Lines.
Gkken, H. W., 35 Gate Street, Sedgley, Nr. Dudley.
Hubbard, Mrs. Cyril, Willingdon, Sussex.
Kingsley, Mrs., 65 Belsize Park Gardens, London, N.W. 3.
Librarian, University Library, Glasgow.
Martin, E. Le Breton, 20 Portland Place, London, W. 1.
NiVEN, George, Shiantelle, Streatham Park, London, S.W. 16.
Pedlp:y, C. H., Winterlay House, Ni-. Crewe.
July, 1919. Netv Members and Associates. 75
Eeid, Mrs., Crescent House, Effingham Road, Surbiton, Surre}'.
Ryder, Miss M. L., 122 Pevensey R^ad, Eastbourne, Sussex.
Snow, Mrs., 1 Brown Road, Hoe Street, Walthamstow, Essex.
Tatham, Hon. Mr. Justice, D.S.O., Parkside, Alexandra Road,
Pietermaritzburg, S. Africa.
Thomson, Mrs. Leslie, 9a St. Mary Abbott's Place, Kensington,
London, W. 8.
Watson-Taylor, Mrs., Dibley's, Blewbury, Didcot.
Wood, E. Cope, 150 School House Lane, Germantown, Philadelphia,
Wright, Gt. E., Vale Lodge, Epsom Road, Guildford, Surrey.
The 163rd Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, May 30th, 1919, at 3 p.m. ;
The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour in the chair. There
were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William Barrett,
Captain E. N. Bennett, the Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr.
J. C. Piddington, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, Mr. Sydney C. Scott,
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick and Dr. V. J. WooUey ; also Mrs. Salter,
Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Twelve new Members and twenty-two new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly accounts for April, 1919, were presented and
taken as read.
It was agreed that the Rooms of the Society should be
closed this year on August 1st until September 8th.
U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
FURTHER DONATIONS TOWARDS THE
INCREASED COST OF PRINTING.
V. Torkildseu
Mrs. Salter
£3 3 0
12 10 0
£15 1.3 0
76 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1919.
THE "MASKED MEDIUM."
Some stir both in the press and in certain spiritist circles has
been made recently by the performance of a lady under the above
title at the Victoria Rooms of the Criterion, and later at the flat
of the manager, Mr. Selbit. It might have been expected that
the claims of tliis lady, which included the power of describing-
the contents of a closed box filled with articles collected from the
audience, and of producing a materialised spirit within the limits
of time or with the regularity demanded hj the conditions of a
public performance, would have sufficed as a warning that the
show did not aim higher than to affoi'd an hour's pleasant mystifi-
cation. And, if this were not enough, it might have been supposed
that the fact that Mr. Selldt himself is a well-known illusionist,
described in the telephone book as a " Theatrical Novelty Pro-
ducer," would have daunted the faith of even the most robust
believers. Judging, however, from the controversy that arose,
and from the reports that we ourselves received from certain
quarters, it is clear that the interest which has recently been-
aroused in spiritualism has not been accompanied l)y a correspond-
ing increase of the public critical faculty. It is, therefore, fortunate
that Mr. Selbit has had the candour to admit (see An Avwzing
Stance and an Exposure, by Sydney A. Moseley : Sampson Low,
Marston & Co., p. 123) that the performance was "engineered."
This admission is to Mr. Selhit's credit ; his show was ingenious,
and his efforts were produced promptly and with scant attempt
at mediumistic realism. If a certain temporary deception of the
simple has resulted, it would be unfair to hold Mr. Selbit himself
as wholly responsible.
CASES.
I.
L. 1226. Apparition at the Time op Death.
The foUo-^ving case of an apparition seen at the time of death
has reached us through Sir Oliver Lodge, to whom a report
was sent in the first instance. The apparition was that of
Lieut. David E. M'Connel, E.A.F., who was killed in a flying
accident on December 7, 1918, and the percipient was one of his
July, 1919. Gases. 77
fellow-officers, Lieut. J. J. Laildn, R.A.F. The earliest report of
tlie occurrence was contained in a letter to Sir Oliver Lodge from
Lieut. M'Comiers father, Mx. D. R. M'Connel, who writes thus :
January 16, 1919.
Knowing your interest in psychical affairs, I take the liberty of
giving you the particulars of the reported appearance of my son
at the time of his death through an accident while flying. T
enclose the copy of the written statement of Lieut. Jas. J. Larkin
of Scampton Aerodrome, to whom the appearance was made.
I heard of the occurrence at my son's funeral on the 11th
December (he was killed on the 7th December) and wrote as soon
as I could to Lieut. Larkin, who replied on the 22nd December.
The statement made to me on the 11th by Lieut. Hillman, who-
has attested the correctness of the account given, corresponds
accurately with the account itself. Lieut. Hillman had not
been back to Scampton, or seen Lieut. Larkin, between the time
of the funeral and the writing of the account. Lieut. Hillman
wrote his attestation on reading the account in my house. The
event seems to have made a very vivid impression on the two or
three of my son's friends who heard of it. ... One other matter
of fact I may mention. My son was fully dressed for flying,
with helmet, when he started. We happen to have a snapshot of
him taken by a fellow-officer just before he climbed into the
" camel " which he flew. The account states that he " appeared
"
with his naval cap on. My son began his flying career in March
last, entering through the R.N.A.S. before the amalgamation of the
R.N.A.S. with the R.F.C. His elder brother had entered the
R.N.A.S. and my son David was proud of his connection with
the earlier service. Having a complete kit of the naval flying
service, he always wore the naval flying uniform about the aero-
drome, and was one of only three at the drome who had followed
the same course in entering. His naval uniform was therefore
well known. It would not be at all an unusual thing that he
should have taken off his uncomfortable helmet on arriving back
at the hangar, and exchanged it for his naval cap. Under the
circumstances, however, it is to be remarked that he wore his
helmet at the time of the accident ; and in the appearance to
Lieut. Larkin wore the naval cap. His mother informs me that
he was dressed, as usual, in his naval uniform below his flying
things, and that he had his naval cap with him in the fusilage
78 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1919.
to wear on reaching Tadcaster—the usual action. The O.C. states
that my son left Scampton for Tadcaster at 11.35 a.m. December
7, '18.
The circumstances of the flight were as follows. My son, with
other officers, had been to a dance at Lincoln on the night of the
6th December. He got up rather late on the morning of the 7th,
missed parade, and also had no breakfast. The formal completion
of all his tests for " getting his wings " were to take place on
the 7th. As the account states, he was on his way to start for
the Aerial Range to shoot off those final tests when he was
asked by the O.C. to take one of two " camels " to Tadcaster.
He went therefore unexpectedly, rather fatigued, and without food.
I may say here that his O.C. considered him a " born flyer,"
and that he was a very cautious and careful flyer, though not
shirking necessary risks. By most unusual favour, he had been
accepted for permanent service before he had won his " wings "'
—
-
had been nominated for an instructorship in flying, and was to
have left for the Camp of Instructors on the Monday following
Sa,turday, 7th December. The weather was fair when he left
Scampton to fly to Tadcaster, a distance of 60 miles. He was
accompanied by another " Avro " plane—a 2-seater—which was to
have brought him back to Scampton after delivery of the " camel."
You are probably aware that a " camel " scout plane is a
notoriously difficult and sensitive one, and requires continued
strain and effort to keep it down. At Doncaster the two planes
ran into fog. My son and his Avro companion descended, and my
son described the situation to his flight commander and asked
for instructions by telephone. The reply was " Use your own
discretion." We suppose that my son's anxiety to finish his tests
prompted him to continue. His companion states that neither of
them lunched at Doncaster. Between Doncaster and Tadcaster
the fog became very thick. The Avro man had to come down,
and made a forced landing, successfully. My son circled round
him to see that he was all right and continued his flight to
Tadcaster. Sixty miles is not a long flight. But the fog was
very dense. In order to keep touch with the solid a flyer has
to keep his plane under such circumstances about 150 ft. above
the surface of the ground—a feat in a camel of considerable
difficulty. My son must have encountered difficulty, as he did
not approach Tadcaster till nearly 3.30. Allowing for \ ox ^ hour
for the descent at Doncaster, he must have been flying for about
July, 1919. Gases.
3J to 3J hours on this occasion. I am told that it is as much
as an ordinary flyer can do to fly a camel for 2 hours. The
strain on the arms is intense. In fact, his mother, who saw his-
body on Monday the 9th at midday, observed that his hands
were tightly clenched and his forearms swollen. As he at last
approached the Tadcaster Aerodrome, the machine was seen approach-
ing by a man on the road about \ mile distant from the camp, wha
reported the fog to be extremely dense During the evidence at the
inquest a girl, or young woman, said she was watching the plane,
and saw it apparently " side-slip," then right itself. It flew steadily
for a minute or two, then mounted suddenly and immediately " nose-
dived " and crashed. The engine was full on when the crash occurred.
My son was thrown violently forward—his head striking the gun
before him, which was not hooded. One arm was broken, one
leg was torn. The girl ran to the spot and "found the officer dead."
The violence of contact seems to have stopped his watch, which
registered 3.25 p.m. His cigarette case was almost doubled up. These
are the circumstances of the accident, so far as I am aware of them.
I am informed by flying men that the reaction on reaching
safety after a difficult flight is so " terrible," that fainting is not
unknown. My son, it is thought, may have fainted ; hence the crash,
and his inability to save himself. Or there was possibly engine
trouble. I am told also that when shot, or in danger, the immediate
thought of the flyer is usually a quite trivial one, such as the sudden
desire for a cup of cocoa, or to get undressed at camp, etc. I mentioa
this because the " appearance " was not made at my son's home,,
or to his mother, who was there at the time, but in his own
camp-room, and to a person who was a comparative stranger.
However, his mother did have a strange impression at the hour
of his death, of which she is writing an account herewith enclosed.^
My son had a happy, even joyous disposition. He had a brisk
step and manner which would account for the " noise and clatter,'"
which Lieut. Larkin remarked and reports in his account. My
son was 18 on the 15th April, 1918, having left Bedales School,
Hants, before military age, to enter the R.N.A.S. He had been
headboy at Bedales during that winter term. He was the youngest
headboy Bedales had had. ... At Scampton, as at school, his
conduct, character, and disposition made him as much loved as
respected. His friends and his O.C. report that, though they are
^ This account has been sent to the Society, but is not printed here.
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1919.
all accustomed to the sudden deaths which repeatedly occur, when
the news of David's death reached camp, the camp was com-
pletely " broken up."
I write these words to you that you may see what bearing his
character may have had on the " appearance," if indeed character
has any influence in such things.
David E. M'Connel.
Enclosed with Mr. M'Connel's letter was an account by
Tiieut. Larkin of his experience, together with two corroborative
statements from fellow-officers, thus :
34 T.D.S., EoYAL Am Force,
ScAMPTON, Lincoln, Deceviher 22, 1918.
David [M'ConnelJ, in his flying clothes, about 11 a.m. went to
the hangars intending to take a machine to the " Aerial Range
"
for machine gun practice. He came into the room again at
11.30 and told me that he did not go to the range, but that he
w^as taking a " camel " to Tadcaster drome. He said, " I expect
to get back in time for tea. Cheero." He v/alked out and half
a minute later, knocked at the window and asked me to hand
him out his map, which he had forgotten. After I had lunch,
I spent the afternoon writing letters and reading, sitting in front
of the stove fire. What I am about to say now is extraordinary
to say the least, but it happened so naturally that at the time
I did not give it a second thought. I have heard and read of
similar happenings and I must say that I always disbelieved them
absolutely. My opinion had always been that the persons to whom
these appearances were given were people of a nervous, highly-
strung, imaginative temperament, but I had always been among
the incredulous ones and had been only too ready to pooh-pooh
the idea. I was certainly awake at the time, reading and smoking.
I was sitting, as I have said, in front of the fire, the door of the
room being about eight feet away at my back. I heard someone
walking up the passage ; the door opened mth the usual noise
and clatter which David always made ; I heard his " Hello
boy !
" and I turned half round in my chair and saw him standing
in the doorway, half in and half out of the room, holding the
door knob in his hand. He was dressed in his full flying clothes
but wearing his naval cap, there being nothing unusual in his
appearance. His cap was pushed back on his head and he was
smiling, as he always was when he came into the rooms and
July, 1919. Gases. 81
greeted us. In reply to his " Hello boy !
" I remarked, " Hello !
back already ?
" He replied, Yes. Got there all right, had a
good trip." I am not positively sure of the exact words he used,
but he said, " Had a good trip," or " Had a fine trip," or words
to that effect. I was looking at him the whole time he was
speaking. He said, Well, cheero !
", closed the door noisily and
went out. I went on with my reading and thought he had gone
to visit some friends in one of the other rooms, or perhaps had
gone back to the hangars for some of his flying gear, helmet,
goggles, etc., which he may have forgotten. I did not have a
watch, so could not be sure of the time, but was certain it v^as
between a quarter and half-past three, because shortly afterwards
Lieut. Garner-Smith came into the room and it was a quarter
to four. He said, " I hope Mac (David) gets back early, we are
going to Lincoln this evening." I replied, " He is back, he was
in the room a few minutes ago !
" He said, " Is he having
tea ?
" and I replied that I did not think so, as he (Mac) had
not changed his clothes, but that he was probably in some other
room. Garner-Smith said, " I'll try and find him 1
" I then vfent
into the mess, had tea, and afterwards dressed and went to
Lincoln. In the smoking room of the Albion Hotel I heard a
group of officers talking, and overheard their conversation and the
words " crashed " " Tadcaster " and " M'Connel." I joined them
and they told me that just before they had left Scampton, word
had come through that M'Connel had " crashed " and had been
killed taking the " Camel " to Tadcaster. At that moment I did
not beUeve it, that he had been killed on the Tadcaster journey.
My impression was that he had gone up again after I had seen
him, as I felt positive that I had at 3.30. Naturally I was eager
to hear something more definite, and later in the evening I heard
that he had been killed on the Tadcaster journey. Next morning,
Garner-Smith and I had a long discussion about my experience.
He tried to persuade me that I must have been mistaken, that
I had not actually seen Mac on the previous afternoon about
3.30, but I insisted that I had seen him. As you can understand,
Mr. M'Connel, I was at a loss to solve the problem. There was
no disputing the fact that he had been killed whilst flying to
Tadcaster, presumably at 3.25, as we ascertained afterwards that
his watch had stopped at that time. I tried to persuade myself
that I had not seen him or spoken to him in this room, but
I could not make myself believe otherwise, as I was imdeniably
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1919.
awake and Ms appearance, voice, manner had all been so natural.
I am of such a sceptical nature regarding things of this kind that
even now I wish to think otherwise, that I did not see him, but
I am unable to do so.
The foregoing are just the plain facts of the case. Would you
please give me your opinion 1 I have given you every detail
and described easily and naturally just as it happened. I must
thank you very much for David's photograph. I shall always
treasure it. We had been very good friends though not intimate
friends in the true sense of the word, as though I had known
him for about four months, we had been room-mates for about
six weeks only. We had lots of discussions, political, social, and
educational, but not once did we discuss anything bordering on
the occult or spiritual. Had we done so, I would perhaps have
been able to account, in a measure, for his appearance in this
room at the time of his death. As it is, I have no explanation
whatever to offer.
Jas. J. Larkin, 2ncl Lt. R.A F.
Corroborative Statements.
Mr. Larkin has related almost word for word what he told me
on the afternoon of the 7th [December, 1918], at about a quarter
to four. Knowing the type of man he is, I most certainly believe
this strange occurrence, but am at a loss to explain it.
Gerard Garner-Smith, Lt. R.A.F.
On Sunday morning, December 8th [1918], Mr. Larkin told me
the story exactly as he has written it down here. I have known
Larkin rather intimately for some time, and although at any
other time I would have been inclined to disbelieve a story of
this nature, knowing Larkin as I do and as he is, I am convinced
of his story as he has told it.
R. MOWAT HiLLMAN, Lt. R.A.F.
In reply to a further enquiry, the follcv^ing letter was
received from Lieut. Larkin giving additional details concerning
the circumstances in which his experience took place :
Repatriation Depot, R.A.F.,
Blandford, Dorset, June 27, 1919.
The Society already has my detailed description of the occur-
rence—regarding the time, it was about 3.25, or rather between.
July, 1919. Gases. 83
3.20 and 3.30 p.m. The room was quite small, about 12 feet
square, and at the time the electric light was on and also a good
fire burning in an open stove. I may mention that the light was
particularly good and bright, and there were no shadows or half
shadows in the room. Outside it was still quite light, but being
a foggy, cold day, I had my door closed and the light on and
the fire going. I think that is all the additional information you
require, as I understand from Mr. M'Connel's letter.
Jas. J. Larkin, 2nd Lt. R.A.F.
Lieut. Garner -Smith's corroborative statement supplies evi-
dence that Lieut. Larkin had identified the man who entered
his room on December 7, 1918. as Lieut. M'Connel before he
could have had any normal knowledge of the accident which
had only just occurred. The identification cannot therefore
be due to any trick of memory consequent on the news
of the accident. That being so, the only normal ex-
planation which could be made to cover the facts would be
one of mistaken identity. It was with this possibility in mind
that we questioned Lieut. Larkin concerning the lighting of the
room. Obviously such a mistake would be far more likely to
occur in a dim light. Lieut. Larkin's reply on this point is
satisfactory. The light, he tells us, was good, and under these
circumstances it is very difficult to suppose that Lieut. Larkin
could mistake a man, with whom he actually had conversation
at a distance of only a few feet, for another man with whose
voice and appearance he was perfectly familiar. A further
argument against the theory of mistaken identity is that
Lieut. Larkin observed that the man who entered his room
was wearing a naval cap. This was worn by only two other
men at the aerodrome besides Lieut. M'Connel, neither of whom,
as we are assured by Mr. M'Connel, who is 2:)ersonany ac-
quainted with them, " could either in height, or build, or
manner, or voice, have been mistaken for my son,"
II.
L. 1227. Telepathic.
A REPORT of the following case appeared in the Weslminster-
Cathedral Chronicle for March, 1919, and we are indebted
to the Editor for permission to print it here. The names.
84 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1919.
and addresses of all those concerned have been given to us,
but are withheld by request.
The report in the Westminster Cathedral Chronicle, which
we have slightly abbreviated, ran as follows :
One afternoon a short time back Fr. Brompton (to give the
priest a fictitious name) was requested to visit a lady who was
ill. When he arrived at lier house he met the doctor who
very urgently requested him not to administer the last rites at
that particular moment, but to be satisfied with giving the patient
a few clieeriug words. He very reluctantly consented but, when
he saw the lady, greatly regretted his promise and the fact that
the doctor should have made such a request, as he feared that
the patient vras very much worse than he had been made to
understand. However, his promise had been given ; so he arranged
that he would come again in the morning and administer the Last
Sacraments. Before he left the house, however, he gave the nurse
his telephone number and asked her to telephone should the
patient become suddenly worse before the morning.
As usual, that night the telephone was switched on to one
of the Father's rooms, as is the custom at the Oratory, with
a view to any jiossible sick-calls. Fr. Brompton retired to bed
at his usual hour after reciting his rosary, in which he did not
forget to include his patient of the afternoon. In the early
morning he was startled out of a deep sleep by his bedroom
door opening, and saw, by the hght of the moon through his
open, uncovered window, a medium-sized, dark-robed figure stand-
ing by it, and understood the person to say something about
a sick-call.
" For heaven's sake, man," he hastily answered, sitting up
in bed and rubbing his eyes, not quite sure if it was the Father
-on duty or the lodge porter, " speak clearly."'
" Be quick !
" came the reply in clearer tones. " There is
no time to lose. There is a telephone message."
" Right—right 3^ou are !
"'
at once answered Fr. Brompton.
The word " telephone " brought back in a moment to his mind
the sick-call of the previous afternoon, and it did not therefore
occur to him to ask for the address. He sprang out of bed
—
the door closed as he did so. Turning on the light, he observed
that it was just on the quarter to four. He quickly dressed,
and went to the chapel for the Holy Oils and the Blessed Sacra-
July, 1919. Gases. 85
ment, remarking, by the way, on the forgetfulness of his caller
to turn on the light for him. Making his way swiftly across
the space between the house and the gates that shut it oS
from the main road, he found them locked as they should be,
and had to knock up the lodge porter to let him out. Within
a minute or two he was well on his way to the house he had
visited the previous afternoon, and as he waited after his first
ring at the bell and congratulated himself on his smart arrival,
he looked at his watch and saw that it still wanted five minutes
to four. He rang again—and again. . . A clock in the vicinity
chimed the hour. He rang and knocked. Strange that there
is no one ready to answer the door after telephoning," he thought.
In the stillness of the moonlight night he thought he was making
enough noise to wake the dead. The dead ! Could the worst
have happened ? His regret of yesterday came upon him with
sudden force, so that he became alarmed. He banged at the
door. The electric light was on in the hall and on the stairs,
as he could see. He knew that there were only six people in
the house—the sick lady in one room, her husband, given up
as hopeless, in another, two day nurses (now evidently in a
sound sleep), and the two night nurses in attendance on the
patients. The children had all safely recovered from influenza
and had been taken elsewhere. ... A clock chimed the quarter
past. At last, to the priest's great rehef, the door opened.
"Come in, doctor," said a nurse; "I fear you have been kept
-waiting."
" I am not the doctor ; I'm a priest."
" Oh, I suppose they telephoned for you ? That's bad news.
Will you go up 1
"
Fr. Brompton made his way up to the sick-room, and as
he quietly entered he saw the nurse kneeling by the Ijedside
and noticed that she was very startled as he entered. He also
heard the sick person saj^ng : "I do wish Fr. Brompton would
come." Afterwards he learned that for the space of about half
an hour before his arrival the lady had been expressing a wish
to see him. The nurse, not being a Catholic, and not reahsing
that a priest would come outside the ordinary hours, suggested
that she should recite some prayers from a Catholic prayer-
book. Fr. Brompton arrived while she was doing this. He
. at once gave the lady the Last Sacraments, much to her rehef
-and peace of mind. Within an hour or two she became un-
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1919.
conscious. After reciting the prayers for the dying, the priest
prepared to leave the house.
" Thank you so much for coming so opportunely," said the
nurse, " but you quite startled me."
" On the contrary, thanks are due to you for telephoning."
" Oh, but I didn't !
"
" Well, someone did. I expect it was Mrs. 's sister."
As the nurses were not Catholics, the priest took it that one
of the lady's relations had telephoned in her anxiety about her
sister. Fr. Brompton heard that she died a few hours later. She-
became a Catholic at the age of eighteen, and had been an
excellent one up to her pious death at the age of thirty-two.
In the evening of the same day, Fr. Brompton had occasion
to speak to the Father whose duty it had been to answer the
telephone, and in the course of conversation said :
" By the way, I'm sorry I spoke to you so sharply last
night."
" Why, when do you mean ?
"
" When you came to call me."
" But I never called you last nightl
"
" My dear Father, you came to my room at a quarter to
four this morning and told me there was a telephone sick-call."
" I never left my room last night. I had a sleepless night
and happened to note that I was awake at that very time,
as I had my light on. And what is more, there was no telephone-
call last night /
"
In the above story it should be borne in mind that Fr. Bromp-
ton had had no reason, up to the moment he spoke to the
Father responsible for the night telephone, to suppose that any-
thing unusual had happened. He had had a sick-call in the
afternoon and would return the following morning in the ordinary
way. He mentioned the sick person in his prayers as was his.
wont in such cases. He made no special preparations before
going to bed. He was awakened by his door being suddenly
opened. He took the caller to be the Father on duty, and^
were it not that he knew it could not have been the lodge-
porter, would not have spoken to the Father at all. It was.
only because he considered he had spoken roughly to him when,,
as he presumed, he had called him, that he referred to the-,
matter at all when speaking to him on other business. Oda
Jdlt, 1919. Cases. 87
enquiry at the telephone exchange it was stated that there was
no record of any call for the Oratory on the night in qviestion.
In reply to our request Father Brompton and Father X.
(the priest in charge of the telephone) kindly corroborated
the above report thus :
1. The above narrative correctly states my being called by
Father [X.] in the early morning of November 22nd, 1918.
[Father Brompton.]
2. I neither had a telephone call, nor did I visit Father [Bromp-
ton's] room in the early morning of November 22nd, 1918.
[Father X.]
We were also able to get in touch with the nurse who
was on duty in the sick woman's room on the night in ques-
tion, and obtained from her the following corroborative state-
ment :
I did not telephone or send for Father [Brompton].
M. A. W.
In reply to a further question concerning the nature of
his experience Father Brompton wrote :
March 2lst, 1919.
You ask me whether the manner of my being called was a
unique experience. There was nothing unique to me in the
manner of the call, it came like dozens of other sick-calls ; but
what was, and is a unique experience to me is the denial of the
person who called me.
[Father Brompton.]
It cannot be clearly determined whether Father Brompton's
experience was in the nature of an unusually vivid dream or an
hallucination, that is, whether he was awake or asleep at the time.
According to his own account he woke to see a figure stand-
ing by his door and heard it speak to him. But evidently
upon such a point a mistake might easily occur ; it may
be that Father Brompton woke only at the moment when
he jumped from bed, at which time, he tells us, his bed-
room door was closed and the figure had vanished. The
origin of his impression, whether dream or hallucination,
would appear to have been telepathic.
88 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1919.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To The Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
"THE HYENAS OP PIRRA."
Dear Madam,—May I, through your Journal, call attention
to an article in the Conihill Magazine for October, 1918>
entitled " The Hyenas of Pirra," by Mr Richard Bagot. My
reasons are a hope that some of our members may be able
to throw further light on this interesting subject, and a possi-
bility that some day there may be a further investigation. There
is here a chance that might add much to our knowledge ; at
the least it would clear up an error which bears on one like
an evil dream.
The subject of the article is the supposed power of some indi-
viduals of a race in N. Nigeria to change into animal form,
a somewhat startling proposition though not unknown to legend.
Mr. Bagot's article describes some experiences reported by Lieut.
F. personally, and an experience of the late Capt Shott, D.S.O.
With variation of detail both narratives deal with the killing
of natives when in the form of supj^osed hyenas. There is so
much in the details which excludes commonplace explanations,
and the Officers to whom the experiences happened seemed so
deeply impressed with what they learned on further inquiry,
that one is led to wonder whether here is not some new psycho-
physiological phenomenon. Can there, in other words, be any
real, solid, actual truth in the idea that men can at will put
off their bodily form and take on another, and that the body
of a ravening beast ?
Of the accounts themselves the main facts are as follows.
Raiding hyenas were wounded by gun-traps, and tracked in
each case to a point where the hyena traces ceased and were
succeeded by human foot-])rints, which made for the native
town. At each shooting a man mysteriously dies in the town,
all access being refused to the body. In Lieut. F 's exper-
iences the death wail was raised in the town almost immediately
after the shot, but Capt. Shott does not mention this. In Capt.
Shott's experience the beast was an " enormous brute," readily
trackable, which after being hard hit made off through the
guinea-corn. It was promptly tracked, and a spot was come
upon where " they found the jaw of the beast lying near a large
pool of blood." Soon after the tracks reached a path leading
July, 1919. Correspondence. 89
to the native town. The natives next day came to Capt. Skott
—and this is the curious part of the afiair—and told him, with-
out any regrets, that he had shot the Nafada—a lesser head-
man—who was then lying dead mth his jaw shot away. The
natives gave their reasons as having seen and spoken to the
Nafada as he was, by his own admission, going into the bush.
They heard the gun and saw him return ^^-ith his head all
muflfled up and walking like a very sick man. On going next
morning to see what was the matter—he had turned out all
his women on returning—they found him as stated. The Nafada
had a bad reputation and was a noted "hyena man;" having
power to change himself into a particularly large and cunning
specimen of the animal. Capt. Shott confessed that he was
converted from being a very sceptical soldier into rather more
than a half beUever in the strange powers claimed by certain
of the natives in these districts. He also details the reasons
why other shootings could not have been accomitable for the
deaths. For fuller details I must refer the reader to the
article itself, as it is not my point here to contest the record.
It is for reason of the many weird things which come to us
from Africa from time to time that I think investigation of
such a case as this last would be of service to science, and
to psychic knowledge. If the phenomena are genuine, it seems
the changes must be the result of some power of de-materialis-
ing and re-materialising in a lower form—is it always higher
to lower ? —one can hardly come to any other conclusion.
But what does this mean when turning to the j)sychic side,
and can we solemnly face such an idea ? It may be quite worth
while to glance at this aspect of the problem, assuming some-
thing really to lie behind_ the reports, especially as several phases
come to the mind. In my own case first thoughts went to
the Theosophist teaching of collective soul in the lower ranges
of animal Life. If by soul we here xmderstand the astral element
of self—and I cannot recall having heard any clear differenti-
ation made between them—then it would seem that the same
element divided among the many becomes later a single entity
in each higher individual. Such a theory would require a long-
evolutionary period to effect the change in growth, and we might
assume a wide borderland within which a tendency to go back
to the former or lower state occasionally obtained. Could this
be an explanation in the present case ? It is not easy to visu-
90 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1919.
alise so tremendous a process as the astral change or how it
worked in physiological detail ; but no doubt, in the flesh, the
motive would be some deep racial instinct not yet quite extinct.
The tribe in question, we are told, were hardly if at all meat-
eaters, yet the man returns to the beast to hunt and eat flesh
and even carrion. But it could hardly be this one desire which
actuated the change, as that desire could more easily be satis-
fied without it. The tendency would have to lie in some cause
much deeper, such as the older racial instinct overmastering the
newer evolution. In the vast periods of time and change required
for Nature's processes no hard line of demarcation seems allowable,
and if such a border-land existed to our comprehension now, no
doubt many strange and interesting things might be witnessed.
When we come to think of the practical happenings, and
still assuming the changes to have taken place, we are in the
presence of some very weird ideas. How, for instance, was the
material body changed, and what became (or becomes) of matter
extraneous to, or not part of the body itself, such as food in
the stomach. In the changing back it would, after successful killing
or finding, be considerable in quantity and even poisonous to
the reassumed man-body. Clothing also—though that could
be discarded and resumed—if missed on the return, might lead
to discovery, for evidently the natives generally looked on the
" hyena-men " as evil doers. In Capt. Shott's instance the man
returned all muffled up, and he could not have known of his
coming misfortune and need of wrappings. The whole thing seems
too fantastic to discuss, but yet it does seem imperative to think
about it, if only to clear it all up. Again, the detached jaw ;
why
was this discarded ? Is there a certain point beyond which the astral
or other forces are unable to control the matter under change ?
Surely so stupendous a power could control so small a detail,
considering the magnitude of what was being done. To question
further still : why was the man killed at all ? You cannot,
so we are taught, kill the astral-body ;
yet the man dies after
the change and without his jaw. Have we to assume that the
jaw was so far detached as to be killed at or before the moment
of change ? If then the beasts had been shot dead what would
have happened ? It seems clear from the records that in these,
and other native cases reported, the beings did not die as hyenas
but as men in their homes ; no dead hyena seems ever to have
been found ; and only, in this one case, the dead jaw.
JULT, 1919. Correspondence. 91
As Lieut. F. remarks, " these experiences prove nothing ; but
they certainly give food for much thought," and as I think
so too I have ventured to write this letter, in the hope, as
I have said before, that some of our members more qualified
to think with effect may be interested to enlighten us. There
are of course many more incidents in the article than space
allows me to mention.
John Mostyx Clarke.
Editorial Note.—The evidence detailed in the original article in the
" Cornhill Magazine" is certainly of a reimtrkahle character, and after
receiving Mr. Mostijn Clarke's letter we wrote to Mr. Richard Bagot,
who is himself a member of the Society, to ask whether he had
received any information throwing further light wpon the matter.
In his reply Mr. Bagot said that he had not so far heard any-
thing more, and he continued :
I may add that in the article in question I merely reproduced
verbatim the reports and letters sent to the said official [a friend
of Mr. Bagot's who occupies one of the most important Govern-
ment posts in Northern Nigeria "] by British officers well known
to him, and that the authenticity and good faith of the writers
can be vouched for entirely. I have evidence of precisely similar
occurrences that have come under the notice of Italian officials
in Eritrea and Somaliland ; and in all cases it would seem
that a gravel patch thrown up by the small black ants is neces-
sary to the process of metamorphosis. I drew the attention
of Sir James G. Frazer (author of The Golden Bough) to this
coincidence, and asked him if he had come across in his researches
anything which might explain the connection between gravel
thrown up by ants and the j^ower of projection into animal
forms ; but he informed me that, so far as he could recollect,
he had not done so. Italian officials and big game hunters
assure me that it is considered most dangerous (by the natives
in Somahland, Abyssinia, etc.) to sleep on ground thrown up
by ants ; the belief being that any one who does so is liable
to be " possessed " or obsessed by some wild animal, and that
this obsession having once taken place, the victim is never after-
wards able entirely to free himself from it, and is compelled
periodically to assume the form and habits of some beast or
reptile
Richard Bagot.
92 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jdlt, 1919.
KEVIEW.
Psychical Phenomena and the War. By Herewaed Carrington,
Ph.D. (T. Werner Laurie, Ltd., London. Pp. 363. Price,
10s. 6d.)
Mr. Carrington divides his book into two Parts, deahng with
the normal and supernormal aspects of the psychology of the
war. In Part One are described the soldier's attitude ard
sensations during training and actual fighting, illustrated by
letters home ; shell-shock is described, and allusion made to
the remarkable efficacy of suggestive methods of cure ; and
a chapter is given to German mentality and its gospel of fright-
fulness. Part Two reviews almost the whole field of psychical
research, from telepathy and apparitions to mediumistic messages,
materialization, and vampires. Many interesting cases are quoted
from various sources, of premonitions of death and its exact
manner, veridical apparitions of soldiers killed, and the like ;
some are from the Journal S.P.R., and Phantasms of the
Living ;
many of the others are not very well authenticated.
But even popular presentation of such cases has its use, for
it trains the public in the estimation of evidence, a " good
"
case showing up the lacunae of an adjoining weak one. Such
education is important, for it will help readers who become
percipients of any psychical phenomenon to present it in as
scientific a shape as possible. And to many bereaved people
Mr. Carrington's impressive collection of cases will bring a help-
ful strengthening of belief that their dead still live and that
all is well with them.
J. A. H.
No. CCCLVIII.—Vol. XIX. ,
-.- October, 1919.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
Notice of Sleeting, 93
New Members and Associates, 94
Meeting of the Council, -
94
General Meeting, 95
A Supposed " Poltergeist " Case, 95
Case, 99
Correspondence, 101
Reviews, I03
NOTICE OF MEETING. " '
'
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.,
On FRIDAY, NOVEMBER -jth, 1919, at 4.30
WHEN A PAPER BY MR. HUBERT WALES ON
^'Some Experiments in Thought-Transference
: : . : ^
: w Conscious Agency"
... , . . . . WILL BE READ BY , ..
.
Mrs. W. H. SALTER.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
94 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1919.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed iyi Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Chadwick, Miss M. W., 34 Brunswick Square, London, W.C. 1.
Chapman, C. F., 6 St. Aubyns Mansions, Hove, Sussex.
Ellershaw, Major Henry, 124 Pembroke Road, Clifton, Bristol.
Goodden, Mrs. Robert, The Cheyney Court, The Close, Win-
chester.
Lethbridge, Alan B., vStockwood House, Nr. Keynsham, Somerset.
McDonald, Miss Elizabeth M., The Elizabethan Society, 6 Trinity
College, Dublin.
Meek, Mrs., 6 Alexandra Villas, Brighton, Sussex.
Tubby, Miss Gertrude Ogden, 5 West 47th Street, New York
City, U.S.A.
Wodehouse, The Lady Isabel, Kimberley House, Wymondham,,
Norfolk.
Allan, Miss Janie, Sauchrie, Maybole, Ayrshire.
Brierley, Mrs., Chenesiton House, Kensington Court, London, W. 8.
Eastwood, H. E., The Conservative Club, 74 St. James' Street,,
London, S.W.
Hemenway, Mrs. Augustus, Readville, Mass., U.S.A.
HODGKINSON, Rev. F. K., 67 Clifton Hill, London, N.W. 8.
Innes, C. E., 12 Warrington Crescent, Maida Vale. London, W. 9.
Leaf, Mrs. Arthur H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Librarian, Free Public Library of Jersey City, New Jersey, U.S.A.
McClelland, Rev. C. P., President of the Drew Seminary for Young
Women, Carmel, New York, U.S.A.
Powell, Mrs. C. Berkeley, c/o Bank of Montreal, 9 Waterloo Place,
Pall Mall, London, S.W.
ROBSON, The Hon. Kathleen, 26 Eaton Square, London, S.W. 1.
Webster, Mrs. Julia C, Swanton, Vermont, U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 164th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, July 4th, 1919, at 4 p.m. ;
Mr. J. G. Piddington in the chair. There were also present
:
Oct., 1919. Meeting of the Council. 95
Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William Barrett, the Hon. Everarcl
Feilding, Sir Lawrence Jones, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, and Dr. *
V. J. WooUey ; also Mrs. Salter, Editor, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Nine new Members and twelve new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for May and June, 1919, were pre-
sented and taken as read.
It was resolved that the following Minute be entered in the
Minute-book, and that a copy of it be sent to Lady Rayleigh :
" The Council have learned with deep regret of the death,
on June 30th, of the Society's illustrious President, Lord
Rayleigh, one of their original Vice-Presidents, and a member
of the Committee of Reference ; and they hereby place on
record their high appreciation of the honour he did the Society
in accepting the Presidency.
The Council desire to offer to Lady Rayleigh their heartfelt
sympathy in the loss she and her family have sustained."
GENERAL IVIEETING.
The 159th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Robert Barnes Hall of the Royal Society of Medicine, 1 Wim-
pole Street, London, W., on Friday, July 4th, 1919, at 5.30
p.m. ; Dr. T. W. Mitchell in the chair.
Dr. C. G. Jung (of Zurich) read a paper on " The Psycho-
logical Foundations of the Belief in Spirits," which, it is hoped,
will be published later in the Proceedings.
A SUPPOSED " POLTERGEIST " CASE AND ITS
EXPLANATION.
There have recently appeared in the Times reports of
mysterious " oil spurts in a Norfolk rectory." These pheno-
mena occurred at the residence of the Rev. Hugh Guy, rector
of Swanton Novers, near Melton Constable. Several investi-
gators were called in, including Mr. Maskelyne, the well-known
96 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1919.
illusionist, and various tentative exj^lanations were put forward,
but the origin of the phenomena remained obscure until they
were at last traced to a servant-girl of fifteen, employed at the
Rectory, who confessed to having produced them.
A brief report of the phenomena appeared in the Times of
August 30, 1919 ; the matter was discussed at greater length
on September 1st by Mr. Cloudesley Brereton, who had visited
the house, and on September 2nd a long report was printed from
a "special correspondent," a part of which we give below :
On August 8, when there was a big explosion in France, earth
tremors were felt at the village of Swanton Novers, and early in
the afternoon five greasy blotches appeared on the scullery wall
of the house. At the same time, an odour of sandalwood oil was
noticed to be hanging about the garden. Although these mani-
festations aroused comment, no special signification was attached
to them, and the following day the family left the village for a
fortnight's holiday. If anything occurred dm-ing the period when
the house was closed it was not of a startling kind, but on
August 23, when the rector returned home, water with a faint
trace of paraffin began to drip from the scullery ceiling. This was
regarded as a matter for the local plumber, who was duly called
in, but failed to discover the leaking pipe. On the following day
water fell from the ceiling of the maid's bedroom. The girl was
transferred to a bed placed in the bathroom, but immediately she
got there a fresh shower of oil and water occurred.
The situation rapidly became worse during last week. First the
dining room, then the drawing room and bed-rooms were affected.
Visitors who had come to stay with the rector had to leave.
Mr. Guy's two young nieces were driven from their rooms by
another shower of oil on their beds. On Wednesday oil and water
spoiled the breakfast table cloth. " In the scullery," the rector
told me, " we were practically flooded out. The stuff came from
the ceiling in gallons. We made a hole through the floor above
it, to discover the source of the downpour, to find even the laths
to be dry. More extraordinary than anything is the fact that
since this hole was made not a drop of water or paraffin has
fallen through it, but there have been drippings from other parts
of the ceiling. The further end of the week the house had become
uninhabitable. Much of the oil we find is highly inflammable."
Oct., 1919. A Supposed " Poltergeist " Case. 9T
About five this afternoon, while Mr. Guy was showing me over
the almost empty rectory, a furniture remover let us know that a
fresh shower had taken place in the kitchen. I went to look at
what was happening, and saw that the floor was splashed with
water, and that a fresh discoloured patch about 18 in. long had
appeared on the ceiling. From this spot half a dozen oily globules
were suspended, and occasionally one of these fell. There was a
strong smell of paraffin about the room, but that was general
throughout the house. The " manifestation " could have been
caused by some person thromng up a cupful of oil and paraffin,
but who would do this ?
One matter which requires clearing up is that the appearances
of the oil are limited to the daytime, and are almost exclusively
confined to rooms where a little 15-year-old girl servant chances
to be. " The maid seems to act like a water diviner," the rector
said. I noticed the girl to-day, and should not suspect her of any
inclination towards practical joking.
The distribution of the various liquids which have been collected
in the house was given to me as follows :
Dining room—paraffin and petrol.
Drawing room—some paraffin.
Kitchen—petrol, paraffin and water.
Scullery—sandalwood oil, petrol, methylated spirits, paraffin,
water.
Bed-rooms—water and paraffin.
Bath room—water and paraffin.
Hall—petrol, paraffin, water.
Well—paraffin.
There was another shower of the oil which is regarded as
sandalwood this morning. This is only the second time this oil
has been seen.
Among the theories put forward were (a) a leakage through
the ground of paraffin from the village shop three hundred
yards away, (6) a leakage from the petrol lighting-system
established at the Rectory, (c) the existence under the Rectory
of oil-bearing strata, such as those found at East Winch and
elsewhere in Norfolk. None of these explanations, however,
appeared to cover the ground. They did not, for example,
explain the traces of sandalwood oil found on two occasions,
to say nothing of other considerable difficulties.
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1919.
On September 9, 1919, the following statement appeared in
the Times :
The Swanton Novers oil " mystery " has at last been solved.
It is due to a hoax perpetrated by a young servant girl, aged 15,
employed by the rector, the Rev. H. Guy, and his wife.
Mr. Oswald Williams, the illusionist, who is holiday-making at
Cromer, proffered his assistance to Mr. Guy, who, on his suggestion
dismissed the girl for three days and caused the house to be shut
up rigorously. During this interval no liquid fell. In the mean-
time, Mr. Williams cut off the water supply and removed all
liquids from the premises except that he bestowed about the
rooms haphazard several pails containing water strongly salted
with common table salt. On the return of the girl yesterday
morning she reported two more falls of liquid. This was found by
Mr. Guy to be salted water.
No accusation was then made against the girl, it being thought
best to await the return of Mr. and Mrs. Williams, who were due
to arrive from Cromer again during the afternoon. Mr. Williams,
Mr. and Mrs. Guy, and two other persons then went into one of
the front rooms. Mrs. Williams proceeded quietly to an upper
room above the kitchen, the ceiling of which had been torn away
by explorers seeking for the cause of the mystery. As the floor
boards of the upper room had also been removed, there was an
aperture through which Mrs. Williams, by exercising great caution,
could see what was happening below. She plainly saw the girl
take up a glass and throw some of the salted water up to the
ceiling. She at once raised the alarm, and finally the girl, after
first denying her hoax, made a clean breast of the matter in the
presence of the whole of the party, and burst into tears.
The rector has addressed a note to Mr. Williams thanking him
for his timely aid, and making public acknowledgment of his
gratitude for the sympathy and interest manifested towards him
in a time of great difficulty.
On September 12, 1919, a letter from the rector of Swanton
Novers, written on September 11, appeared in the Times, from
which we quote the following extract:
I might mention that directly the house was reopened last
Monday morning [September 8], and before Mr. Williams arrived,
three splashes had occurred about 11.30 a.m., to which Mrs. Guy
(alone at the time) had her attention drawn by the maid, who
Oct., 1919. Case. 99
stated that the atmosphere had caused it. Mrs. Guy heard the
bowl of water being moved from the sink, the water splash, and
the bowl replaced with noise in the sink. She secretly tasted it,
and found it was salted. According to plan, she did not there
and then accuse the girl, but waited the arrival of Mr. Williams
and his party. I might add that on coming to the rectory at
12.30 by the kitchen I tasted the spilt water myself, and corro-
borated the facts. After the girl was caught I fetched both her
parents, who were very upset at first, and refused to believe that
the girl was guilty ; but in face of the evidence, and in spite of
the girl's denials, they agreed mth our views—expressing great
regret, and ofiering to do all in their power to make good the
damage. Mrs. PhilUps—the mother—spontaneously ofEered to come
and clean the house, and Mr. Phillips stated that he would move
back all our things himself.
Since then their feelings have been completely reversed, doubt-
less owing to some outside influences.
Lastly, I am glad to have the opportunity of recording these
facts, as it may be of use to others placed in similarly strange
circumstances, and save them from much trouble, worry and
inconvenience, not to mention the expense.
(Sgd.) Hugh Guy.
P.S.—l have just discovered that the packing of the pump was
saturated with paraffin. This would account for the oil getting
into the well.
In view of the statements given above there can be little
doubt, in spite of the girl's subsequent denials, that the
phenomena were due to her direct agency and no further
explanation need be sought. We print this report of the case
as furnishing a good example of the kind of deceit against
which investigators of such phenomena must be on their
guard.
P. 291.
CASE.
The following case was reported to us by the percipient
herself, who has been for some years an associate of the
Society and related her experience to the Secretary on
February 21, 1919. Afterwards, at the Secretary's sugges-
tion, she sent us a written statement with corroboration.
100 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1019.
The experience appears to have beeu of a premonitory char-
acter, but regarded simply as a premonition it is not very
striking and might be accounted for by chance-coincidence.
What lends interest to the mcident and seems to make it
worth recording, is the curious form in which the impression
was received. It appears to have been an automatism of
speech, and the percipient informs us that it is unique in
her experience. The names and addresses of all persons con-
cerned have been given to us, but by request pseudonyms or
initials are here substituted. The percipient, Mrs. McKenzie
(pseudonjon) describes her experience thus :
April Uh, 1919.
About two years ago I was sitting alone in my room at home,
when I became aware quite suddenly that the muscles of
my throat and tongue were being used—compressed—by some
energy quite apart from myself—and I heard myself say aloud
the words :
" [Angus (pseudonym)], D.S.O."
The sensation was so extraordinary that I spoke of it to my
children. A will other than my own controlled my muscles,,
while I was wide awake, seated in my arm-chair, and so far
as my recollection serves not thinking of my sons at all. The
words did not arise in my mind, they were spoken without
any sort of volition on my part.
I had three sons serving—two on the active list, one not yet
passed fit after being on Gallij^oli—my sons had all been on Gallipoli
and all suffered from severe illness contracted there. [Angus] in
particular, though able to return to active service, never went
into the trenches without shortly having a recurrence of dysentery
fever, or being wounded—so much so that his hard luck had
become proverbial in the family, and we felt that he had less
chance than most people of gaining distinction. The words
spoken seemed to us very unlikely to have any practical signi-
ficance. He was wounded for the third time on the 4th Novem-
ber 1918.
Towards the end of January this year my husband received
a letter from [Angus] in which he said :
" One of Mother's dreams
has come true and I have been awarded the D.S.O."
My daughter and I were together upstairs, and my husband
called the news to us, and my daughter instantly reminded me
of what my tongue had said.
Oct., 1919. Case. 101
This son is the only one who has gained any decoration.
I enclose a letter from a niece who has lived with us during
the war to whom I mentioned the incident and also one from
my son.
[E. M. McKenzie.]
The following corroborative statement was enclosed from
Lt. Angus McKenzie (pseudonym) :
February 26, 1919.
I remember some time ago that my Mother said she had
received an intimation of some sort that I should receive the
D.S.O.
I remembered the incident sufficiently clearly to refer to it
when I wrote to tell my Father that I had been awarded
this order. [Angus McKenzie,] Lt.
A further corroborative statement was received from a
niece to whom Mrs. McKenzie had related her experience
before its verification, thus :
February 24, 1919.
About a year and a half ago my aunt Mrs. [McKenzie] told
me of a curious thing that had happened to her while she was at
home in Argyleshire.
She said that when she had been sitting in her room one
day she had had a curious feeling in her throat and she was
forced to say aloud "[Angus], D.S.O. ," nothing more. She was
very diffident about telling me, as she said it was such an un-
connected thing, and was forced from her in such a jerky manner
entirely as if some one else was using her throat muscles.
When I heard that her son [Angus] had been awarded the
D.S.O. I at once remembered what she had told us. M. E. H.
COEEESPONDENCE.
I.
" The Reality of Psychical Phenomena."
To The Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—Mr. Whately Smith in his interesting paper {Proc,
Vol. XXX., pp. 306-333) on Dr. Crawford's remarkable experi-
ments on " Physical " phenomena remarks that " results of similar
importance would not be unreservedly accepted by Physicists
without thorough confirmation by independent investigators."
102 Journal oj Society for PsycJiical Research. Oct., i919.
A careful perusal of Dr. Crawford's book should convince any
one who has some slight familiarity with experimental work, and
who has no great a priori objections to these phenomena, that
the results given are substantially accurate, the more so in view
of the wide margins which Dr. Crawford allows for instrumental
and observational errors. Still to the ordinary reader, the hypo-
thesis of illusion is always available as an explanation though, as
was clearly shown in Count Solovovo's paper (Proc, Vol. XXI.,
pp. 436-482), this hypothesis is untenable when the movement of
inanimate objects is efiected. Still, confirmation is indeed very
necessary. It cannot be said that the occurrence of these pheno-
mena is yet evidentially established as a fact. The presumption
in their favour (owing largely to Dr. Crawford's work) is, however,
so significant, that it is a matter of prime importance to establish
them beyond the possibility of refutation. When this is done,
and not until then, we may profitably begin to frame theories to
explain the modus operandi of these occurrences.
Confirmation—employing the same medium and circle without
which any results could not be strictly comparable—is difficult.
The introduction of new observers appeared very often to have an
adverse effect on the production of phenomena.
We have however a ready, and equally, if not more, satis-
factory, means of confirmation by the use of automatic recording
apparatus to register the various motions and efforts which, in
Dr. Crawford's experiments, were recorded only by visual in-
spection. Such apparatus is already available which permits of
the synchronous registration of pressures, muscular efforts, etc.,
with far greater delicacy than is possible with the spring-balances,
and other somewhat crude and insensitive apparatus, used by
Dr. Crawford.
I have lately been reading M. Jules Amar's book Le Moteur
Humain (of which a translation is about to be issued by Messrs.
Routledge). In this book considerable sjjace is devoted to the
pneumatic method of measuring efforts and j^ressures, due to the
French physicist Marey.
In outline the method consists in providing a " tambour " (a
small vessel with an elastic diaphragm), or a rubber bulb at the
place where the pressure is to be measured. The j^ressure to be
measured acts either directly, or through springs, on the tambour
or bulb. The latter is connected by a rubber tube, which can,
if required, be of considerable length, to a similar tambour whose
Oct., 1919. Corres'po'iidence. 1U3
diapkragm actuates a style. The movement of this style is
obviously proportional to the pressure exerted on the bulb or
tambour. By the interposition of suitable springs, bet-«"een the
point of application of the pressure and the rubber bulb, quite
considerable pressures (as much as 15 Kg. in Amar's experiments)
can be dealt with, -R-hile by allowing the pressure to act directly
on the transmitting tambour, and increasing the length of the
style actuated by the receiving tambour, very .small pressures can
be made to give movements of convenient amplitude.
Several sets of receiving apparatus are mounted on a shde in
front of a recording drum (similar to that used for chionographic
measurements of very short duration). The shde is traversed in
a definite relation to the rotational speed of the drum. Each line
of apparatus can be readily calibrated before and after an experi-
ment by applying known weights at the transmitting end, and
noting the corresponding ordinates of the traces. Thereby the
value of the pressure, say in kilogrammes or grammes, corre-
sponding to 1 centimetre height of ordinate can be accurately found.
It will be observed that a number of absolutely synchronous
records can be obtained of the jtressures at separate and different
places by employing a corresponding number of elements. Thus,
in the case of a table levitation, it would be possible to obtain
simultaneous records of the horizontal and vertical components
beneath the table, the variations in weight of the medium, and the
quasi-rigidity of her muscles, if, as may be the case, this is
accompanied by an alteration in bulk. Also if the operators
permit, it might be possible to explore the periphery of the
••
psychic cantilever " since the small bulk of the tambour might not
cause serious interference. As the graphs can easily be made
permanent, and can be reproduced by photo-lithography it would
thereby be possible to give evidence, which could not be refuted,
that the stated jjhenomena actually did take place.
Another great advantage of the apparatus is that the drum
etc., could be installed in a room adjoining the seance room
where its actions could be observed in fuU white light. Turther,
the field of the psychic operations would not be encumbered with
bulky apparatus, such as weighing machines and spring balances.
I would also suggest the following simple direct reading arrange-
ment to register the actual movement of the table. Provide a
very light style working in a tube with a dehcate spiral spring.
Fix this to a side of the table so that it can mark on a large
104; Journal of ISociety for Psychical Research. Oct., ioi9.
sheet of smoked paper or a similar surface placed ou a vertical
frame at the side of the table. If, as appears to be the case,
levitations can be obtained with but slight lateral oscillation, a
trace of the vertical movements woiild be given on the paper as
the spring would maintain a sufl&cient contact between paper and
style for moderate lateral displacements.
At a later date, when levitation as a fact is definitely estab-
lished, M. Amar's technique contains suggestions which might be
applied to the investigation of the physiological condition of the
medium. He measures the expenditure of energy in working by
comparison of the consumption of oxygen and the respiratory
quotient with those obtained when the subject is in a state of
rest. Space does not permit of a description of the apparatus,
but its application should enable a definite decision to be given
as to whether the expenditure of psychic force causes a corre-
sponding expenditure of physiological energy. A decision whether
negative or positive would be of great value.
A last suggestion, and I think an important one, is that the
possibility of fraud (conscious or unconscious) should be eliminated
by what I believe physiologists call " control " experiments. Any
careful reader of Dr. Crawford's book will probably come to the
conclusion that many of the levitations, etc., could hardly have
been effected by the sitters however much they tried. Thiis
experiments Nos. 23-5 are manifestations of a force which it
would seem impossible that the sitters could have exerted. Still,
to make this quite certain, the attempt should be made to repeat
the experiments, with everything precisely as before, but with a
circle of independent, and preferably sceptical, persons equal in
number and as far as possible similar in physique to the sitters,
without, of course, any attempt to call in " psychic " assistance.
If, and when, the repetition of these experiments by normal means
is found to be impossible, surely the action of extranormal forces
is demonstrated, and we are released from those interminable
and unsatisfactory discussions as to the bona fides of this or that
medium and circle. G. E. Wright.
II.
Nomenclature.
To The Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—Much of the prejudice involved in the subject which the
Society for Psychical Research investigates is due to the fact that
Oct., 1919. Gorrespondence. 105
there is no satisfactory name for this subject. " Spiritualism
"
carries too heavy a burden of associations ; and besides it is a
philosophical term with a technical meaning of its own.
' Spiritism " is still uglier, and with some people arouses even
more prejudice. We often take refuge in " Psychic Research "
;
but this denotes the investigation, and not the subject. Cannot
the S.P.R. coin a neutral and respectable-sounding word for us to
use ? The need is really urgent.
I notice that mental healing, or spiritual healing, attracted
little attention from learned people until more scientific, or at
least more cumbersome names were invented. Or perhaps the
names followed the learned people : in any case we find now the
most orthodox scientists frankly immersed in psycho-therapeutics
and psycho-analysis. Perhaps on this analogy we ought to invent
a good clumsy name for the learned, and a really nice name
(such as you could put into a sonnet) for simple folk. " PsycJio-
Diaphory " is the kind of thing the scientists would like, to describe
the phenomena or alleged phenomena of communication from
another plane of existence. A nice English name would be more
difficult to find ; but the S.P.R. contains many people who could
help in this pretty art of word-making.
Ought we not also finally to discard the term " Medium " ? It
will never get rid of the associations of Mr. Sludge, and does great
injustice both to the subject with which we are concerned and
to a respectable class of people. " Sensitive " is better ; but
I think we could improve upon it, before it has come into general
use.
This is not a small matter. We hardly realise how necessary
good terms are, and how much harm is done by bad ones. And
the S.P.R. has sufficient authority and power to coin the necessary
words. Percy Dearmer.
Aug. 25th, 1919.
REVIEWS.
Experiments in Psychical Science. By W. J. Crawford, D.Sc.
(John M. Watkins, Cecil Court, Charing Cross. 4/6 nett.)
Although Dr. Crawford's latest book does not break new ground
to the same extent as did his first, it contains a great amount
of intensely interesting and very valuable matter.
The first part is devoted to experiments designed to confirm
106 Joiirnal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1919.
and amplify the conclusions to which his earlier researches had
led him.
He finds that while his first " cantilever " theory of a simple
rigid arm connecting the table to the medimn holds good for the
easier levitations, a more complicated form of structure is used
for cases where heavy pressures are involved, or for such pheno-
mena as the shifting of the medium and chair laodily along the
floor.
This is what one would expect, and all the results seem to
hang together extraordinarily well. Especially simple and striking
are the experiments (pp. 68-70) in which he locates the ends of
the " psychic " structures pressing against the bare floor or against
the legs of the medium's chair.
Perhaps the most suggestive and intriguing point in the whole
book is the strong hint on p. 16 to the effect that means have
been found to render the levitating structures visible to normal
eyesight. It is impossible to over-rate the importance of this
advance if it has actually been achieved ; if an observer can
actually see the structures in j)Osition, there could be no further
hesitation about accepting Dr. Crawford's results at their face
value, and the progress of further research would be very greatly
accelerated.
Scarcely less important is that part of the book which deals
with " contact " phenomena.
It is well known that there are many people who possess
sufficient mediumistic ability to produce strong table movements
of this type. In fact, the chances are probably in favour of any
four people being able to produce some sort of " table turning
"
effect if they try.
Dr. Crawford's experiments show that the movements obtained
are greater than any which can arise from muscular pressure.
This is a fact which is not really any less remarkable than levita-
tion without contact. The difference is only in degree and not in
kind. It is greatly to be hoped that students of the subject will
lose no time in repeating carefully the very simple experiments
described and thus checking Dr. Crawford's work. Experiments on
these lines put the chance of doing real research work on their
own account within the reach of most who are interested in the
subject.
In this connection one very curious anomaly may be noted.
Contact phenomena, as their name implies, are essentially de-
Oct., 1919. Reviews. 107
pendent upon the sitters touching the table. In other words,
physical phenomena seem to be more easily produced with contact
than without it. And yet Dr. Crawford finds that if the medium's
bare hand touches the levitated table in the course of non-contact
phenomena the table instantly drops. In fact, that which is a
sine qua non in the one case is fatal in the other.
In his last chapter Dr. Crawford describes some experiments he
performed with a " direct voice " medium. These took place in
total darkness, and Dr. Crawford rightly refuses to attach any
great importance to them.
All the same, they are well worth publishing, and, in the
opinion of the present writer at least, distinctly increase the
credibility of this type of phemonenon.
There is, of course, one problem of supreme interest which
stands out pre-eminent among the many connected with these
physical phenomena, namely, the question of the nature and
origin of the curious substance which seems to be extruded from
the medium and is formed into the levitating structure, and of
the extraordinary apparent loss of weight by the medium which
is associated with its production. This substance seems to be
" cropping up " at various points of the field of Psychical Research.
It appears as almost the only reliable item in the researches of
Schrenck-Notzing and of Madame Bisson with the medium "Eva C."
and the whole history of Psychical Research bristles with indications
of it.
Its existence seems incontestable, but its constitution remains
obscure and forms the central problem for Psychical Research on
the physical side. Dr. Crawford's next publication which promises,
one gathers, to deal with his researches on the subject will be
eagerly awaited by all students whose interests centre round this
type of problem. W. W. S.
Dei Fenomeni d'Infestazione. By Ernesto Bozzako. (Luce e Ombra,
Rome.)
In his careful study, Dei Fenomeni cVInfestazione, Signer E.
Bozzano gives us so interesting a work on the subject in question
that one is almost tempted to forget that from the standpoint of
many investigators the veridical existence of many of the pheno-
mena discussed is still open to doubt.
lOS Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., i919.
In a brief notice of a long work, its merits too often have to
be dismissed with a cursory word of appreciation, while the
reviewer concentrates upon some criticism. It is in this spirit
that I am commenting upon Signer Bozzano's interesting chapter
upon so-called " Poltergeist " phenomena, in which, with all due
deference to the relatively well authenticated examples he quotes,
I think he proceeds to classification with rather too easy an
assumption that the existence of the genuine Poltergeist is an
established fact.
It is true that Signor Bozzano frankly admits the difficulties
almost invariably attendant upon the thorough investigation of an
alleged Poltergeist ; but I venture to think that on page 156
he goes possibly too far in stating that the ^^olice authorities
when called in " scarcely ever achieve a solution of the mystery,"
or if he be correct in this statement, then I am inclined to
question his implied deduction therefrom that a solution beyond
the achievement of the police must necessarily involve supernormal
agency.
Signor Bozzano goes on to say that where fraud is alleged,
" the very skilful charlatan capable of deceiving the '
professionisti
dePordine '
is in most cases an ingenuous adolescent girl."
Now I think Signor Bozzano has in this passage—and con-
sequently in his subsequent conclusions—tended to overlook two
points :
(1) That all police are not "
very skilful.'
(2) That '
an ingenuous young girl,' especially at the age which
of all others is productive of hysterical disturbances (an age
which, as Signor Bozzano reminds us, so often figures in the role
of Poltergeist medium), might, while duping a police agent, prove
no match for a medical man well versed in the vagaries of con-
scious or unconscious hysterical trickery.
In making these brief remarks I hope I shall not be misunder-
stood, either by Signor Bozzano or by any prospective reader of
his valuable work. I am not suggesting that genuine Poltergeist
l^henomena, and other alleged but infrequently investigated types
of phenomena, do not exist, but only that further investigation
should precede the assumption of their existence. U. V. T.
Nos. CCCLIX.-X.—Vol. XIX. ; Nov. -Dec, 1919.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAOE
Notice of Meetiug, 109
New Members and Associates, 110
Meeting of the Council, Ill
Medical Section, 11]
The Gillam Case, 112
The Indian Rope-Trick, 124
Notes on Periodicals, - 12~
Review, 130
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE STEINWAY HALL,
LOWER SEYMOUR STREET, LONDON, W. L,
On TUBSDA F, DECEMBER ^t/i, 19 19, at 5 /-.w.
WHEN PAPERS !N MEMORY OF
LORD RAYLEIGH, O.M., F.R..S.,
AND
Sir WILLIAiM CROOKES, O.M., F.R.S.,
WILL EE READ BY
Sir OLIVER LODGE, F.R.S.,
AND
Sir WILLIAM BARRETT, F.R.S.
N.B. — Visitors will be admitted on the productio7i of an invitation card
signed by a Member or Associate. Eacli Member or Associate is
at/owed to invite one friend. Members and Associates will be
admitted on signing their na?nes at the door.
110 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov. -Dec, 1919.
NEW MEMBEKS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Baker, Rev. F. C, 69 Cunningham Park, Harrow.
Coote, J. F., 3 Malwood Road, Balham, London, S.W. 12.
Fitch, Hugh B., 31 Campden Grove, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Hichens, Rev. Canon Arthur S.,The Rectory, Penicuik, Midlothian.
Leaf, Frederick A., Newlands, Harrow-on-the-Hill.
Morse, Major John, Vinchelez-de-Haut Manor, St. Ouen, Jersey.
Palmer, Mark, Gonville and Cains College, Cambridge.
Rayleigh, Lady, Terling Place, AVitham, Essex.
Bello, Constantin, Delegation Hellenique, Hotel Mercedes, Paris.
Call, Major Felix, D.S.O., 2nd Bn. The Royal Irish Regt., Ris-
borough Barracks, Shorncliffe.
Farwell, Mrs., Roanoke, Chorley Wood West, Herts.
Gard'ner, Miss Katharine L., 126 Q,ueen's Gate, London, S.W. 7.
Gates, Rev. Horatio, 355 Oakland Avenue, Milwaukee, Wis.,
U.S.A.
Glenny, George C, Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle.
Glenny, Mrs. G. C, Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle.
Gorge, Maurice, 19 Grande Rue, Gueret (Creuse), France.
Hedley, Dr. E. P., Chesterfield Villas, Ockbrook, Derby.
Howgrave-Graham, Captain Alan, Randfontein Government School,
Randfontein, Transvaal.
Irving, Rev. W. S., Oxenhall Vicarage, Newent, Glos.
Jeboult, F. M., 19 Edith Villas, West Kensington, London, W. 14
King, Miss R. Estelle, 19 Highfield Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Librarian, Binghamton Public Library, Binghamton, New York,
U.S.A.
MACLEOD, Surgeon Commander G. Ernest, R.N. (Ret.), 18 Vyvyan
Terrace, Clifton, Bristol.
Parsons, Ambrose, Said House, Chiswick Mall, London, W. 4.
Parsons, Karl, Speedwell, Northwood, Middlesex.
Peck, Geo. L., 227 Walnut Street, Sewickley, Pa., U.S.A.
Van Meurs, H., Schenck-de-jong-weg 6, Buitenzorg, Java.
Vatcher, Mrs. A. M., 21 St. Leonard's Road, Ealing, London, W. 13.
Waite, Miss E. V., Ackworth, Station Road, Epping, Essex.
Nov. -Dec, 1919. Meeting of the Council. Ill
Wallace, C. A., 1 Adelaide Avenue, Belfast, Ireland.
AVynn, John, Widney, Solihull, Warwickshire.
Zeehandelaar, Dr. I., .39 Sarphatistraat, Amsterdam, Holland.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 165th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Wednesday, October 22nd, 1919, at
3 p.m. ; The Eight Hon. Gerald W. Balfour in the chair.
There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William
Barrett, the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Captain E. N. Bennett, the
Hon. Everard Feilding, Sir Lawrence Jones, Sir Oliver Lodge,
Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. G. Fox Pitt,
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J. WooUey ; also Mrs. Salter,
Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meetmg of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Eight new Members and twenty-four new Associates were
elected. Then names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for July-September, 1919, were
presented and taken as read.
MEDICAL SECTION OF THE SOCIETY FOR
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
At a Meeting of the Council held on October 22, 1919, it.
was decided that the Medical Section formed in 1911 should
be suspended. The Section was formed " to promote the
study of the psychological side of medicine, especially the
principles underlying different forms of treatment by suggestion
and other psycho-therapeutic measures, dissociations of conscious-
ness, and analogous problems ; to publish original contributions
by medical men on these subjects in special Medical Parts of
the Proceedings, to appear from time to time ; to consider
the possible bearings of these studies on Psychical Research
proper."
The Council came to their decision on the grounds that the
purpose for which the Medical Section had been created was
now being carried out by other medical and psychological
Societies, and they held that the objects of the Society would
112 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov.-dec, 1919.
be better attained by appointing a Medical Committee to
watch, the work that was being done in various quarters, and
to report on any matters which appeared of special interest in
relation to Psychical Research. A Committee was therefore
appointed for this purpose, and the following Members of
Council have consented to serve on it : Dr. W. M'Dougall,
F.R.S. ; Dr. T. W. Mitchell; Dr. V. J. Woolley ; Dr.
Maurice B. Wright.
THE CASE OP WILLIAM GILLAM.
[Editorial Note.—The following case is one in which a
veridical statement was made in automatic writing, purporting
to come from a deceased communicator, concerning a fact
not known at the time the script was produced either by the
automatist herself or by any other persons with whom she
was in touch. The automatist, Miss A. Childe-Pemberton,
has been an Associate of the S.P.R. for several years. From
the time when she first began to write automatically towards
the end of the year 1917, she frequently talked over her
writing with the Secretary, Miss Newton, and it was at Miss
Newton's suggestion that she wrote the following report.
The purporting communicator is Miss Childe-Pemberton's
nephew, Lieut. Edmund Childe-Pemberton, who died of wounds
received in action on April 13, 1917. Since allusions are
made in the following report to sittings with Mrs. Leonard
at which Lieut. Childe-Pemberton purported to communicate,
it seems desirable to note that in the opinion of his relatives
good evidence of his identity was obtained at those sittings.]
Report by Miss A. Childe-Pembertof.
William Gillam Avas Edmund Childe-Pemberton's servant.
He was with him at Vimy Ridge when he was wounded,
April 13, 1917, and went with him to the Hospital at
Barlin, and was by his side that day till he died (April 13).
Gillam was faithfully attached to Edmund, and wrote immediate
accounts of all that happened to Edmund's mother, t It was
through him that we knew about Edmund's last hours, and
that his mother received his last message. Later he sent
Kov.-Dec, 1919. The Case of William Gillam. 113
home Edmund's note-book and watch and other things that
he had on him when he fell.
Gillam got leave in August, 1917, and came to see Edmund's
parents at 12, Portman Street, on August 29 and 31,
when he gave further details, and proofs of his faithful attach-
ment to Edmund. After he returned to the front to his
Regiment (11th Hussars) I sent him parcels from time to
time. These he acknowledged promptly. I received answers
on the following dates : letter from trenches received Nov. 12,
1917 ; field-card written Dec. 17, received Dec. 22, 1917 ; letter
received Jan. 8, 1918 ;
field-card, dated March 3, 1918. This was
the last communication I received from Gillam and I did not
communicate with him again myself, imtil I sent him a parcel
on April 8, 1918, which he never acknowledged (see below).
This parcel was not despatched until three days after the
script of April 5, 1918 (see below), in which it was stated
that a man (subsequently identified as GUlam) had lately
died. It will therefore be seen that at the time when this
script was produced I had no reason to suppose that anything
had happened to Gillam. Before passing on to consider the
scripts written on and after April 5, 1918, something must
be said of a statement contained in earlier scripts.
In very early scrawls, when first I got writing from my
nephew Edmund, some allusions were made to William GiUam.
On November 29, 1917, he said that William Gillam had
" come," that is, was now with him. It is my habit, when
producing automatic writing, to make statements or to ask
questions which are commented upon or answered in the
script. When I received a field-card from Gillam on December 22.
1917, written on December 17, 1917, I told Edmund, when
I was writing automatically on December 22, 1917, that he
had been incorrect. In reply, he wrote in the script
:
We make mistakes,—must be more careful to verify—dent
want gammon you—put you off writing—still beUeve G. comes
before long—awfully sorry seemed a liar—am not—please dont
doubt it's absolutely me
—
On December 31, 1917, I had a sitting with Mrs. Leonard,
during which I begged Edmund to be very careful not to
make mistakes as he had about Gillam, and he said (through
114 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Noy. -Dec,
Feda) " lie would make no wild predictions, but be very
careful.'" He made allusions to this in the script of January 4,
1918, saying :
" Must go more cautiously than I did." Also
in the script of January 16, 1918, he said :
" A mistake to
suppose we are prophets & it has thrown people back in
belief—I know I almost did you about Gillam." Again
in the script of February 13, 1918, he said :
" When I first
came here I was so uplifted that I thought I was grown into
a kind of prophet, because one does sense such a lot of new
things."
It will be seen from the above extracts that at the end
of November, 1917, a statement was made in the script that
GiUam was already dead. This was afterwards admitted to
be an error, but it was suggested on December 22, 1917, that
Gillam would " come before long." This was how matters
stood until the subject was brought up again in April, 1918 :
Extracts from the Script.
April 5, 1918.
I have something interesting for you. (pause).
A. C.-P.i What is it ? Are you gone ?
Well it is about a chap that has lately come along here,
—
not Roland, another you are interested in. I won't say
yet, having made mistake before, you see— You must find
out for yourself—then you'll see . . .
April 6, 1918.
A. C.-P. What about that one about whom you won't
tell me which it is. but who, you said yesterday, had come
over ?
Well I'm not going to, so don't get excited.
A. C.-P. Is he a friend of mine ?
Someone you know, but not exactly a pal, but you are
interested in him for my sake. You'll know in good time
yourself. He's all right here. I have my reason for doing
it like this, perhaps seem tiresome.
April 7, 1918.
We don't need go back over the other matter : time
will show you why I am so mysterious.
^ These initials signify that the remarks following them were addressed by Miss
Childe-Pemberton to the purporting communicator.
—
Ed.
Nov. -Dec, 1919. The Case of William Qillam. 115
A. C.-P. Yes, have you a reason for it ?
Yes, I have a meaning in it— We'll go on please
—
April 10, 1918.
No you mustn't try and pump me who I alluded to having
come here, because I shall keep it to myself, till you really
do find out. It will be better Test, so don't try and get
it out, worm it out of me sideways, dear old inquisitive
thing, because I've decided to work it out mysteriouslv
this time ;
so you must have patience ; that is what one
acquires here. This matter is not vital although it is cer-
tainly interesting, and I shall be surprised if you don't agree
when at length you know my mystery—all in good time.
April 13, 1918.
I find myself often with others whom the war threw in
my way—good fellows—several served under—with me are
come. . . .
April 24, 1918.
Soon you will be finding out about my mysterious one
that I won't tell you the name of
—
A. C.-P. Don't tell me now—I want to wait and find out
for myself.
but have given hints—perhaps you have guessed—but no
more yet.
May 6, 1918.
I must say things are going in the direction I hoped
for—without my direct intervention you will find out my
often alluded to mystery.
A. C.-P. I have guessed it for some time.
Of course you have already guessed who it is—but we
will keep up the game to the end—only remember I did tell
you as near as I could. I think sometimes it is difficult
to give hints and indications one wants to tell and yet
one wants to make no slip or error to confuse.
May 13, 1918.
(Note by A. C.-P. to script of May 13, 1918. I had sent
Gillani a parcel and letter (separate) on April 8th ; no
answer yet. I wrote to CoUier, Aldershot, on May 7th.)
A. C.-P. Getting no answer from Gillam acknowledging
parcel sent April 8th, I have now written to Sergeant-Major
Colher to get information about him.
116 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 'Nov.-Vv.c, 1919.
You did all right writing to Collier, but I don't think
you will get a satisfactory reply, at least from the point
of view from which you put your enquiry—there is no doubt
something did happen which caused him not to write abovit
your parcel—that's enough from me—letter will do the
rest—again don't hurry—for this answer when it comes will
be complete and conclude the information—close the matter . .
.
The following rej)ly from Sergeant-Maj or Collier was received
by me on May 27, 1918 :
East Cavalry Bks.
May 27, 1918.
Your letter to hand [of] May 7th. I have enquired
Records York, also to Command Depot and cannot find any
trace of him sent home wounded ; so as far as I can find out,
he is still with the Regiment unless he was killed in the last
big fight the 11th Hussars was in. A good many of N.C.O.'s
and men who are home seem to think he is alright. I trust he
is ; if I can be of any assistance to you I shall only be too
pleased.
S. W. COLLIEE, S.S.M.
By tMs letter it will be observed that there was no reason
to suppose Gillam was dead.
Extracts prom the Script.
May 25, 1918.
What about Gillam ? You have never heard from him
lately have you ?
A. C.-P. No.
I suppose you wouldn't. Well go on—work it out yourself,
time will show my mysterious meaning.
May 30, 1918.
A. C.-P. I have now heard from Sergeant CoUier. He
can find out nothing about Gillam from Depot. Now I have
written again to Gillam at the front.
Go on working it out about Gillam if you can—that you
ferret it out for yourself—for surely you will get it soon—and
I shall hold my tongue to the end. But please remember
you got no reply to your last Gillam letter—^he may be
laughing somewhere else—who knows ? Well, no more said
at present—work away . . .
Nov. -Dec, 1919. The Case of William Gillam. 117
On June 3, 1918, we had a sitting with Mrs. Leonard at
which Edmund's father was the sitter and I the recorder.
A reference was made through Feda to " a young man living
with him [Edmund] " and a description was obtained of what
happened to that man.
Extracts from the Script.
June 5, 1918.
Not about Roland—or Roly—as said ^ there—have said
enough—but the other " friend seemed living with him
"
I gave account to convey over here pretty carefully, because
I wished you to note it down and if you get the chance
to verify it—carry your thoughts also to my often given
messages of mystery, which I have repeated with meaning
and without giving name—wanting you to clear uji—have
you yet ?
A. C.-P. I have not, but am still making enquiries.
Well—you understand me and why I keep mystery up
—
but put this and that together and you will have guessed
and jumped to conclusion now you have description - written
down—it will be useful for reference and it will be seen
I am accurate that is if you can get to clearing up state-
ment on your side—a matter I have at heart rather
—
you'll see why—perhaps guess as said—so far so good.
June 6, 1918.
[Note by A. C.-P. On June 6, 1918, I received back my letter
to Gillam of April 8th, marked "address unknown."]
A. C.-P. I want to tell you to-day I got back my letter
of April 8, to Gillam—returned—marked " address unknown."
Ha!—what should just expect!—as said at Feda's^ "friend
living with me " got over here first—your kind present
and letter got too late—you are on the way to discovery,
but not fully there yet—you know my puzzle—I mean
riddle—pretty well solved now—but better persevere and get
it quite cleared up—do not forget to take note of that I
* Meaning that he had spoken about Roland at length at the sitting of June 3,
1918, with Mrs. Leonard.
2 The description given at the sitting with Mrs. Leonard on June 3, 1918,
and recognised at the time as applying to Gillam, with details as to how he died.
' At the sitting with Mrs. Leonard.
118 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov.-Dec, 1919.
gave about his earth-end though it is quite worth noting
—
so do . . .
June 7, 1918.
A. C.-P. To-day I wrote further enquiry about your friend.
Did you^—what ? —oh yes—almost done to death, (strange word
for me)—mean you have spoken so often—tell me when you
get to final solution
—
June 17, 1918.
The next item in my scoring I shall have to call attention
to, will be my very good friend here, very usefully busy ;
though not cleaning boots or belts ; —thoroughly happy and
both congratulate ourselves we are in a better place than
before—now I say I shall be able to drop—no not metaphor
—but mysterious hintings and veilings of this person and
let him show himself in his true name and colours so to
say—then I flatter myself there will be another number—
a
good figure—added to my " score up."' . . .
June 27, 1918.
. . . Scoring—the figures to be entered before the Gillam
mystery cannot yet be fixed—but a high one . . .
July 7, 1918.
A. C.-P. I have something to tell of interest about the
man you gave mysterious hints about—I guessed pretty
well who you were driving at. Papa wrote to the War
Office asking if a man called Gillam could be heard of ;
—
last night a reply came from W.O. that W. Gillam was
wounded on March 22 [1918]. This is the latest of many
enquiries tried—have you got this clear ?
Well, well yes. I've got it—what a wonderfully long
job to find out simple fact—whether a man is dead to earth's
army or not—fancy what long time finding it out. Yes,
having gone on so long—my dear old " Mrs. S,"—don't be
done by red tape of army officers but persist till you get
it in black and white—for my credit sake as it were as
well as for your own satisfaction not to be done—don't
be discouraged in time you -will certainly believe in me
more than before if possible—and you will conclude your
painful investigations please—by putting things together ; I
have given hints of in half hidden language—then add to
these the talk last, " Feda's " about the young man living
Nov. -Dec, 1919. The Case of William Gillam. 119
witii me "—and work in a continuous and ingenious whole
—
I believe you'll think it worthy of my literary reputation
and my adroit way of arranging things without committing
myself—well—it's got to be solved somehow and we are
laughing at the red taping of the British Army ojf the field
—
I mean " the stay—on—office
"—and we compare again to
this wonderful world of ouis—to our and its great advantage
—so it is again—all very very well : and we are as happy
as kings. . . .
July 8, 1918.
Have nothing to add to yesterday's talk—about my pro-
longed mystery case—hardly decently concealed now but
we'll keep up the game and joke—no, it isn't that—too
real a matter—there it is—good
—
July 10, 1918.
A. C.-P. P. has written again to the War Office asking
for further information.
Good—now the Gillam nut must surely be in the last
stage of being cracked—so let it remain for the present
moment—then talk of the whole affair as I said—putting
all hints together.
{Note by A. C.-P. July 16, 1918.
My letter to Gillam sent May 30, 1918, returned unopened
to-day.)
A'U{/. 3, 1918.
(A. C.-P. read to E. his father's messages to him—that
he had received to-day from War Office ^ news of Gillam
—
" wounded and missing since March 22.")
. . . Yes—of course, ready—I should just think so-
bursting with joy—my good friend and servant, W. Gillam
—
This letter, which was dated August 2nd, 1918, ran as follows :
—
11181 Pte. W. Gillam, 11th Hussars.
In further reply to your letter of 25th June 1918 concerning the above-named
soldier, I am directed to inform you that enquiries have been made and it is now
reported from the Base that he has been missing since the date on which he was
wounded 22nd March 1918.
It is regretted that the fact that he was missing was not reported earlier, but
in the circumstances of the fighting on the front it is not possible for commanding
oflScers always to know whether a man known to have been wounded has been
picked up by our own stretcher bearers. . . .
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. No\.-Dec., 1919
well—at last have these slow coaches arrived at the bare
fact that he was missing all these months—say date again ?
A. C.-P. Since March 22nd.
" Good—that is so—now as to P.'s enquiry whether we can
add further to what I tried to get through at Feda's last talk
—I had to be very firm and make her repeat—she got
something intelhgibly clear at length—to this P. alludes—
I heard you two also going over it—being drawn—first, I
will give P.'s best remembrance to Gillam—he will be very
pleased—he has told me of the visits he made to P.i Street
—all alluded to.
A. C.-P. Can you now add to Feda's account ?
Well—what he says is this—he got wounded very far
out
—
A. C.-P. Mounted or dismounted ?
Mounted they were for the first time—before he often was
in trenches,^ he told you he says—they went on with sort
of charges and retreating more or less the while—he got
left—and by that time the Hun was over the ground—as
said—he could not be reached.
A. C.-P. Was he taken prisoner ?
No, he did not become prisoner—he lay there what seemed
a long time to him—how—he doesn't know—but he lay
till he passed over—no one came—the ground was difficult
—
he was more or less concealed—he was spared being prisoner,
he says, thinks he got stunned falhng when hit—from horse
—
all mixed in his mind—hazy he says—now we need not
go over it again—he is a first-rate chap—as proved to him
on earth—he and I met at once on his reaching consciousness
—he called & asked for me—then we were right glad to
meet— I saw to him from that onwards—till he got all
right soon—and is as happy as I am—now you say this
to P.—& you—my dear old S.—now you see how to get
it straight and clear from the start—what I mean is from
the first mention I made wrapped in mystery, (of course
I saw you soon guessed—) but no matter, I was resolved
to keep it more or less veiled—because of previous wrong
^ Gillam came to our house, 12, Portman Street, and saw Edmund's parents
Aug. 29 and 31, 1917.
^ Yes, see my statement above, p. 113. —A. C.-P. '
Nov.-dec, 1919. The Case of William Gillam. 121
assertion—it's odd why I made that—unless for once I pre-
dicted in a sort of way,—well however it was—see to this—
make the whole story clearly put out and so that the critics
may study and compare it and be dumb.— I am you see
specially glad to correct and put straight owing to formerly
being caught out—at all events being too previous then—
A. C.-P. Well, however painful Gillam's passing out may
have been—we are now so glad to think of his happiness
with you.
—Yes, don't regret for Gillam who had far from a pleasant
time ... We won't remember that—he is worthy here of
the happiness he has— Sometimes he thinks of the' girl
he was fond of—going to marry—but I daresay she wasn't good
enough—so I tell him— I showed him many things and
he is progressing fast—he Ukes the job of doing jobs as a
sort of servant messenger for me. He thanks P. for his
remembrances very respectfully—a true gentleman like you
Sir, he says—and also thanks you for what you several times
sent him—for my sake I know that you did.— You see
I met Gillam when he woke—was warned about him . . .
August 4, 1918.
A. C.-P. About the Gillam account yesterday—it very
clearly filled in what was given at Feda's.
Yes, it does—^the Vol.—is now completed or will be when
your labour of piercing it together it completed—quite a
good Vol.—and gives me great satisfaction— . . . leave no
stone unturned to make this Gillam Vol. as clear and good
a set-out of proof as possible—you haven't an idea what
fun I had trying to tell you by hints and hiding it all the
time—a sort of game. I liked doing it—have you anything
more to ask as to it now the last thread of mystery dressing
up is removed ?—well, I think you got it straightened out.
A. C.-P. About the first part at Feda's—she seemed to
want to say he had been ill and recovered—how did that
fit on to second part ?
Yes, that was said at Feda's—it was not long before
though I think—will ask him—not now—he has related me
many things
—
the jwint to get clear in your heads at Feda's—
was the second time she tackled it— I got it out fitie
—
about his " lying in a difficult] place " the whole thing
122 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov. -Dec, 1919.
turned on that—as was said yesterday fuller—and thus it
was tlie wind up of earth for him—he is very hapj)y over
his new birthday and life here—quite unexpected too—few of
us got any real inkling of what to expect after we were
knocked out—and fewer indeed had any idea or glimpse of
the splendid radiant gay and joyful state in which we find
ourselves—and which opens out more and more—wider and
great hopes and works and opportunities and love and
rejoicing and happiness undescribable. . . .
On Jan. 16, 1919, I wrote to Mrs. Gillam (mother of William)
and asked her, whether amongst returned prisoners, news had
been heard of her son.
I received the folloAving reply from her :
232 PoRTMAN Buildings,
Jan. 20, 1919.
In answer to your kind letter which I received last week kindly
asking me if we have heard more of my dear son William, I am
sorry to say we have not. I enclose the latest report we have
had from the Red Cross about him. I ought to have answered
your last kind letter but at the time I was very ill with Rheu-
matic C4out which is very painful. My youngest son, a lad of
19, has just returned from C4ermany being prisoner of war for
10 months. I am very much afraid we shall never hear or see
anything of William again. M. Gillam.
The following is the enclosure spoken of from the British
Red Cross :
December 17, 1918.
We have, I deeply regret to state, received sad news from
L.(cp.) M. Parsons, 9852. [Full description and address given.]
He tells us he was with the Hussars attending to a sick horse
on March 21st when a shell exploded near him and your son
among others was killed by this shell explosion. We feel certain
that death was instantaneous. We do not consider this evidence
conclusive, though we feel it our duty to send you this rei)ort
and are continuing our enquiries.
May I assure you how much we sympathise with you.
On receiving Mrs. Gillam's letter and enclosure from the Red
Nov. -Dec , 1919. The Case of William Oillam 123
Cross on January 22, 1919, I told Edmund about this, when I
was writing the same evening.
He had repeatedly asked me when Gillam's case would be
concluded for publication, and I had said this would not be till
the prisoners' fates were known.
Extract from the Script.
January 22, 1919.
A. C.-P. She [Mrs. Gillam] sent me a letter from the Red
Cross, that a man, come liome, reported his death. . . . He
was seeing to a horse when a shell fell and killed Gillam with
others instantly . . .
Well Gillam would hke to give his version.
A. C.-P. I remember what he said before.
Yes, but the conclusions of this man's report vary from
Gillam's—it is true there was a shell—but he was not done
with on the spot—^he remembered being hurled somewhere
& left & not found—that's what he says—but he says
—
" for my part it doesn't need going into as to details
only to be exact—& its not easy to be that "
—because, he
says, & said before—he was dazed & uncertain, but he's as
sure as he knows how to he that he wasn't killed in a moment
—but lay a while. " What, Sir, I wish to state is that I
did come over here then, & here I"ve been ever since & very
much happier—tell the lady—than ever I was before or when
she saw me "...
In reply to enquiry sent to the War Office, my brother,
Mr. Childe-Pemberton, received the following on February 13,
1919 :
February 12, 1919.
In reply to your letter of the 21st Jan. 1919—concerning
H./11181 Pte. W. Gillam, 11th Hussars, I am directed to say
that it is regretted no fmther information has been received in
this oiiice, and that he has not been traced as a prisoner of war.
In these circumstances, and in view of the lapse of time, it is
feared that the chance that he may be still ahve is now small.
Every endeavour is being made to obtain complete hsts of
prisoners of war and repatriated prisoners of war are being asked
to give any evidence they have about the fate of the missing.
If any definite information should be obtained the next-of-kin
wiU be notified immediately.
124 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov.-Deo,, 1919
I am to express the sympathy of the Army Council that it
has not been possible to obtain any definite information con-
cerning this Soldier.
In the script of February 13, 1919, Edmund commented
upon the above letter from the War Office thus :
Then we can let fly—for of course they cant find the chap
Gillam on earth & now you have got him presumed dead,—you
can publish our case & not fear but what it's capital evidence
for any but the blind— ... as for us—who have got to the
close of it at last—praise to your patience dear S. from your
very delighted & jolly glad author & nephew E. C. P.
Since this date Mrs. Gillam has received from the War Office a
certificate of the death of her son William Gillam.
THE INDIAN ROPE-TRICK.
In the Strand Magazine for April, 1919, there is printed a
photograph, taken by Lieut. E. W. Holmes, V.C., M.M., of
the famous " Indian rope-trick." The S.P.R. has already
printed two reports from witnesses who have seen this per-
formance, but we have never obtained any photographs. We
endeavoured therefore to get into touch with Lieut. Holmes
v/ith a view to examining the original negative, but in this
we have not so far succeeded.
The photograph depicts an open-air scene, a stretch of
grass apparently with a few trees in the background ; in the
foreground stands the conjurer, holding in his left hand the
lower end of the rope which appears to be about 10 ft. long.
The boy is balanced vertically on the upper end of the rope,
w^hich rises straight into the air ; his arms are extended and
his legs are hanging down on either side of the rope. His
whole figure and the upper half of the rope are silhouetted
against a light sky. The scene is thus described by Lieut.
Holmes :
One day in May, 1917, I was standing on the veranda of my
bungalow at Kirkee, near Poona, in the company of several
other oflicers, when an old man and his boy came up to us over
the open ground, to give us his performance. He had no pole
Nov. -Dec, 1919. The Indian Rope-Trick. 125
—a thing which would have been impossible of concealment.
He began by unwinding from about his waist a long rope, which
he threw upwards in the air, where it remained erect. The
boy climbed to the top, where he balanced himself, as seen in
the photograph, which I took at that moment. He then de-
scended, and the conjurer, holding the pole with one hand, tapped
it gently with the other, when it collapsed into rope-like flexibihty,
and he coiled it round his waist, as before. I offer no explana-
tion. I simply relate what took place before my eyes.
Included in the article in the Strand Magazine is another
statement by a witness who saw the trick performed by a
native conjurer in Delhi in 1896, and again by the same man
at Benares in 1897. His experience was similar to that of
Lieut. Holmes, but he did not take a photograph. The
existence of the photograph is an important point, because one
explanation of the performance which has been put forward is
that some illusion or hallucination is produced in the spectator,
and the rope is never climbed at all. But such an explanation
will not hold where a camera is concerned. The account
given by Lieut. Holmes suggests that possibly the efJect
might be produced by a very finely jointed rod made in
the semblance of a rope which would stiffen when thrown
vertically into the air. To manipulate such a rod so that a
boy could climb up it and poise himself at the top would be
a remarkable feat of juggling, but not perhaps beyond excep-
tional skill. That the faculty exercised in the performance
of this trick, whatever its nature may be, is as an exceptional
one is shown by the fact that the performance is so rare.
It is worthy of note that after the boy had descended from
the rope, as Lieut. Holmes tells us, the conjurer tapped it
gently with his hand. If it was a jointed structure, the
object of the tapping may liave been to dislocate the joints.
Two reports by eye-witnesses of the Indian rope-trick have
been printed in the Journal. In the earlier report, by Mr.
S. T. Burchell (Vol. XI., p. 299), it is stated that the rope
appeared to ascend to a height of about 15 to 20 feet.
The raised portion of the rope remained erect, while the other
portion lay on the ground. . . . The boy then began to cHmb
the rope, hand over hand, with legs twisted round the rope in
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Kov.-Dec.1919.
the ordinary way of climbing. When he got to the top, the
boy disappeared, but I could not tell the exact moment of
disappearance. One seemed to be gradually aware that he
had disappeared,' but not able to fix the exact moment of dis-
appearance. The conjuror then commenced to harangue the
crowd and ask where the boy was. The boy then appeared
in the open space, but I do not remember whether he descended
the rope or came from the outside of the crowd.
The second report (Vol. XII., p. 30), written in 1904 by
a lady whose name is withheld by request, describes the
performance of the trick in 1897 by a " party of conjurers
"
outside the verandah of a hotel in Bombay.
One of them threw a rope into the air which hitched itself
up to apparently nothing in the sky above ; one could see the
rope going straight up as far as one could see anything, and
it certainly did not on being thrown up at once fall back to
the earth again. A small boy then swarmed up this rope, becom-
ing smaller and smaller, till he likewise vanished from sight, and
a few minutes later bits of his (apparently mangled) remains
fell from the sky, first an arm, then a leg, and so on till all
his component parts had descended ; these the juggler covered
with a cloth, mumbled something or other, made a pass or two,
and behold ! there was the boy smiling and whole before us,
and the rope was jerked of! its invisible hook and rolled up,
and the trick was done.
The jugglers were seated well below us on the open ground,
with no attempt at concealment, with nothing about them but
the very scant properties of an Indian conjuror (too well-known
to require description).
It will be observed that of the three reports printed above,
the least sensational is Lieut. Holmes', which is corroborated
by his photograph. Mr. Burchett's report agrees with Lieut.
Holmes' save that he estimates the rope at fifteen to twenty
feet, whereas the photograph taken by Lieut. Holmes shows
that upon the occasion when he witnessed the performance the
length of the rope was only about ten feet, and Mr. Burchett
speaks of the boy as having disappeared from the top of the
rope, whereas Lieut. Holmes tells us that he " descended,"
Nov. -Dec, 1919. Notefi on Periodical-^. 127
presumably by means of tbe rope. Upon this point Mr.
Buxctiett's statement falls more into line with the third report,
made seven years after witnessing the trick ; the boy is de-
scribed as climbing to a great height, " becoming smaller and
smaller until he likewise vanished from sight," and descending
to earth apparently in pieces. This conclusion, which is one
of the traditional features of the rope-trick, was apparently
omitted upon the two occasions when Mr. Burchett and Lieut.
Holmes witnessed the performance.
A comparison of the three reports given above suggests that
some of the more sensational elements in the trick are to be
explained by means of the usual arts of the conjuror, raisiug
a certain expectation in the spectator's mind and distracting
his attention at the crucial moment. For what actually
occurred on one particular occasion the photograph taken
by Lieut. Holmes is the clearest evidence with which we have
so far met.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Proceedings of the American Society for Psychical Research. Vol.
XIII. August. 1919.
The number opens with an article by Dr. Hyslop which gives
the results of a questionnaire he had circulated to test the allega-
tion that the evidential matter about his relatives which he had
obtained in his sittings with Mrs. Piper might have been due
to chance coincidences. The questionnaire was very full and
detailed, and Dr. Hyslop has no difiiculty in showing on the
returns that chance could not possibly have done what was
claimed for it. But his argument is less convincing in this
case than when he so ingeniously tested the value of the identifica-
tions of ' spirit '-communicators through mediums by the close
parallelism of the messages sent by communicators in the flesh
who were not allowed to give their names [cf. Proc. Pt. XLI,
Appendix A] : for it is clear that the questionnaire embodies only
the '
hits '
in the Piper messages.
The second article, by Dr. W. F. Prince, is devoted to a
critical study of the '
Great Amherst Mystery.' It is shown
conclusively that when due deduction is made for the defects
in the quantity and quality of the evidence presented in Mr.
128 Journal of Society fo)-' Psychical Research. '^oy.-Dsc,
Walter Hubbell's book (now in its 55th thousand !) and its accounts
are compared with the records in his original journal, the case
conforms closely to the ordinary '
Poltergeist ' type, with Esther
Cox as the perpetrator of the mysterious pranks. Dr. Prince,
however, does not accuse her of conscious fraud, but supposes
that she was suffering at the time from '
dissociated '
personaUty,
due to the shock of an unpleasant experience she had had shortly
before the manifestations began. Dr. Prince's fine study practi-
cally establishes this interpretation, but it is a pity that it is
obscured by an unfortunate misprint on p. 118, where the vital
date is given as 1879, instead of 1878 (cf. p. 126).
In the third article Dr. Hyslop gives an account of his investi-
gation of a real estate broker at Lynn, Mass., who frequently
suffered from veridical symbohc hallucinations referring to the
character and occupation of strangers who visited his office. On
being scientifically tested, his success was nothing like so great
as the newspapers reported, and Dr. Hyslop's attempt to convert
the apparent evidence for '
telepathy '
into proof of '
spirit
'
agency by taking him to his medium Mrs. Chenoweth also did
not yield anything very conclusive. But the case is undoubtedly
of value as throwing hght on the antecedents of '
mediumship.'
The last article is a translation of Dr. W. Mackenzie's account
of the '
thinking dog,' Rolf of Mannheim, published in the Archives
de Psychologic de la Suisse Romande, No. 52, December, 1913. This
article was fully reported on in the Society's Journal for June,
1914. Now apparently, as there foreshadowed, evidence has been
got showing that Rolf did not understand the intelligent responses
he gave and that consequently the intelligence shown was not
his. A certain Dr. Neumann (at a time which is unfortunately
not stated, though it must have been before Frau Moekel died
a year or two ago) tried four types of experiment upon Rolf,
all of which gave consistent results. (1) When Dr. Neumann
held the board on which the dog tapped his responses, the results
were wholly negative. " No intelligence was manifested."
(2) When Frau Moekel held it, but was ignorant of what the
dog had to do, the answers were wrong. (3) When she, or
one or more of her daughters knew, the answers were right.
(4) When experiments of the third type were repeated in the
absence of Frau Moekel, the dog at once failed to answer the
questions he had answered correctly before. Dr. Mackenzie,
Nov. -Dec, 1919. Notes on Periodicals. 129
who very candidly sent a copy of Dr. Neumann's paper to
Dr. Hyslop, is, not unnaturally, now afflicted vntk " very dis-
comforting doubts about the actual genuineness of the whole lot
of '
results '
obtained with the Mannheim Dog," though he protests
that " I have no direct evidence of any sort, about tricky com-
munications that might have been exchanged between the Moekel
children and their (now deceased) mother, such as to vitiate
my own experiments." Still he thinks that " Mrs. Moekel,
even in perfect honesty, may have undergone much self-suggestion,"
and apparently believes that he was tricked, although he allows
his paper to be republished. There appears to be, moreover,
no prospect of further investigations ; for though Rolf is still
alive, " he is said to be now completely negative '
while Miss
Luise Moekel, now married, has " lost all interest about the
dog," and refuses to exhibit him any further. The debacle
seems as complete, and just, as that of the German Empire.
And yet it is only fair to point out that, if we judge by the
recorded evidence alone, neither are all of Rolf's achievements
explained, nor is fraud (whether deliberate or as the amusement
of an hysterical invalid) the only remaining explanation. Unlike
Dr. Neumann, Dr. Mackenzie did succeed (according to himself)
in getting intelligent answers from Rolf under conditions when
no one was in a position to prompt him, as notably in the card
experiments (of. pp. 243, 251-3), in which he elaborately assures
us only Rolf could have seen the cards. Other observers in
Tierseele have made similar allegations (cf. Journal, June, 1914,
p. 256). Theoretically also both these results and Neumann's
are compatible with some combination of the telepathic and
Maeterlinck's cosmic reservoir' hypothesis (cf. Journal, July,
1914, p. 272). But no doubt amid these perplexities most scientific
men will accept Dr. Neumann's verdict as final, though he is
apparently too cautious to allege fraud ;
they will jjrefer to
believe that Dr. Mackenzie and the others who thought they
had made sure they were dealing with Rolf's unaided intelligence,
were careless observers and have not reported what actually
happened. And unfortunately such mistakes are so common
that no experienced psychical researcher will feel confident that
they are wrong. F. C. S. Schiller.
130 Journal of Society for Psychical iJesearc/i. Nov.-Dec, 1919
REVIEW.
Life after Death, Problems of the Future Life and its Nature.
By James H. Hyslop, Ph.D., LL.D. Kegan Paul, Trench,
Trubner & Co., Ltd. London, 1918. Pp. ix, 346.
There is no more indefatigable investigator of psychic matters
than Dr. Hyslop, and both the quantity and the quahty of
his researches inspire respect, even in those who believe that
the principle of the inverse^ ratio to some extent applies to them.
In addition there is no one more ardent and assiduous in writing
books to ]30j)ularize his researches, and the present volume is
only the last of a long series. But Dr. Hysloj) would be more
than human if he had not the defects of his qiiahties. Intensely
conscious that he is struggling almost single-handed against the
bias of the whole academic world, he is careless of condensation
and style, and sometimes omits to pass the whole of his output
through the critical filter. In the present volume nearly all
that is of value is concentrated in the last five chapters, especially
those on the '
difficulties of the problem ' and '
the process of
communicating.' The historical sketch of the beliefs in immor-
tality in the first six chapters is very inadequate, and often
misleading. For instance, this is how he introduces James's
famous '
transmission '
theory of the relation of body and soul
and the origin of consciousness in an ultra-physical sphere. " It
meant that, even though consciousness might be a function of
the organism it might be transmitted to (sic) some other reahty.
. . . . He recognized the law of transmission of motion and
thought consciousness might conceivably be transferred in a
similar way from the physical body {sic) to some other subject
"
(p. 156). He goes on (p. 157) to ascribe to James an " accep-
tance of the materialistic view that consciousness was a function
of the brain or organism. Hence whatever sympathy he had
with siirvival had to be indicated in a theory of transmission
which seems to the present writer rank nonsense." So it does
to the present reviewer ; but the nonsense is Dr. Hyslop's, and
suggests that if he ever read James's Human Lmmortality he
has completely forgotten it and reconstructs its argument, as
the German professor did his camel, out of his inner conscious-
ness. Or rather out of the word '
transmission,' which he has
unhappily equipped with the wrong prepositions. For James's
'transmission' was not a transmission "from the physical body
to some other subject," but through the body from a spiritual
sphere, and suggested that our minds come from something
mental that pre-exists " {Human Immortality, p. 58). Also James
was careful to explain the ambiguity of '
function,' and to show
that it might be either '
productive ' or '
transmissive,' whereas
Dr. Hyslop seems to confuse '
transmissive ' with '
transitive
'
(p. 137).
Nov. -Dec. 1919. Review.
Dr. Hyslop is on firmer ground when he discusses in the light
of his abundant experience the modes of transmitting messages
from the '
spirit '
world, their interpretation and the nature of
the spiritual existence thus revealed. He is emphatic in declaring
his conviction that psychical research has accumulated evidence
enough for him to " treat the hypothesis of survival as scientifi-
cally proved "
(p. 233) ; but his main aim appears to be to
discourage the inference that therefore '
spirit-communications
'
can be trusted to reveal the nature of the after life, and insists
on the difficulties and complications of the process of communi-
cating and the extent to which its products are coloured by the
personahty of the medium and hable to be vitiated by various
sources of error. So that in the end little appears to him to
be estabhshed, as yet, beyond the fact of survival, and his dis-
cussion is calculated to have a moderating influence alike on the
credulity of those who are ready to swallow anything that authen-
ticates itself in an abnormal manner, and on the presumption of
those who make bold to reject whatever does not seem to them
consonant with their preconceived notions of spiritual dignity
and propriety.
In contending against these uncritical attitudes it is gratifying
that Dr. Hyslop has considerably modernized the philosophic
conceptions employed. A '
spirit '
is no longer a simple (and
therefore indiscerptible) '
soul-substance '
lurking behind the scenes
but a '
stream of consciousness '
that contrives to exist apart
from the physical body. The invocation of ideahsm removes
the traditional stumbhng-block which the somewhat grotesque
imitation of this world, apparently revealed by the messages,
with spiritual replicas of houses, clothes, cigars, etc., used to
constitute ; indeed Dr. Hyslop is disposed to believe that post
mortem existence is in "a wholly mental world.' But he con-
tinues to think reaHstically about the absolute reality of our
present world ;
whereas, if idealism is in order, nothing is easier
than the suggestion that it too is relative to a mental condition,
and so of a like nature with the '
spirit '-world which resembles
it so much. In plainer language, if it is legitimate to suppose
that the world of the '
spirit '
messages is a dream-world, and
if physical reality may appear to be possessed by dream-worlds, it
may quite well be that our world is a further example of this
and that our actual experience is of a dream - world too. We
can get no assurance of its absolute reality, either from science,
which presupposes the data of experience in constructing its
world of physical reality, or from experience, which exhibits to
us dream-worlds and transitions into and out of them. Conse-
quently death as an experience might well seem like awakening
from a dream, and whether we should bofieve ourselves to be
passing into a more real world or lapsing deeper into nightmare,
would depend only on the intrinsic character and value of the
new existence as compared with the old. And obviously the
132 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov.-Dkc, 1919.
inherent difficulties of communication, would remain precisely the
same, whether we supposed that the denizens of a dream-world
were trying to impose on people so wide awake as ourselves,
or that more enlightened '
spirits ' were trying to arouse ms
to higher realities : in either case they would have to be overcome
before literal credence could be given to the information received.
They would have to be overcome to a far greater extent than
they have been, before the communications themselves could be
regarded as adequate proof even of the fact of survival. Dr.
Hyslop's contrary conviction that to obtain supernormal knowledge
of personal characteristics of the departed proves at least that
they still exist and are concerned in its transmission, even though
the bulk of the message may be grotesque or false, is surely
too precarious ; for a number of alternative interpretations have
been, or may be, given of the ajjparent situation. To mention
only one of the former, which though not very attractive or
elevating in itself is of great antiquity and congenial with powerful
interests—what if both the supernormal information and the
mimicry of the departed should proceed from the craft and
subtlety of the devil ? It is clear that all the established
churches, which naturally regard '
mediums '
as doctors do un-
licensed practitioners, must incUne to this view, and notorious
that the Church of Rome has always officially done so ;
moreover,
metaphysical philosophers also are more likely to accef)t this
theory, when cornered and forced to admit that a priori reasoning
can determine nothing about a future life, than to take to patient
scientific investigation of the alleged facts. ^ There is little likeli-
hood therefore that the path of the psychical researcher will be
made less arduous in the future than in the past, though there
is much to be said for Dr. Hyslop's contention (p. 329) that
" if our religious minds could have the courage to frankly abandon
purely deductive methods, to make their peace with scientific
method and to follow inductive methods, they would soon find
their way out of the wilderness. They have everything to gain
and nothing to lose by the appeal to facts instead of a priori de-
finitions and deduction from premises including more than their
evidence supplies. Prove immortality scientifically, and theism is
most likely to follow as a natural consequence."
F. C. S. Schiller.
^ Cf. Mr. Bradley's Essays on Truth and Reality, p. 440.
CORRECTION.
In the October number of the Journal the price of Dr. Craw-
ford's book. Experiments in Psychical Science, was incorrectly
given as 4s. 6d. The price is 6s. nett.
No. CCCLXI.—Vol. XIX. Januaky, 1920.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS
Notice of Jleetiug,
New Members and Associates, - . . -
Meetings of the Council, .....
Extraordinary General Meetings, . . . -
Case, -
Correspondence,
Review,
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 2%t/i, 1920, at 5 /.;//.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" A Report on some '
Book-Tests ' obtained
through Mrs. Leonard
"
WILL BE READ P.V
Mrs. henry SIDGWICK.
PACE
133
13i
135
136
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admissioti are issued for this Meeting. Menwers
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
A
134 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Januaky, 1920.
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are 'printed in Small Capitals.
Elected nth November, 1919.
Barcellos, A. M. S., 47 Hampstead Road, Wallasey, Cheshire.
Benson, E. F., 25 Bromptoii Square, London, S.W. 3.
Bond, Major W. C, O.B.E., Shalesbrook, Forest Row, Sussex.
Bush, E., 11 Silver Street, Wakefield, Yorks.
Hart, Mrs. H. Burcham, Eshott, Eastbury Road, Northwood,
Middlesex.
Piatt, Mrs. Evelyn, Kingwood, Thames Dittou, Surrey.
Thompson, Owen,-^ K.O., 2 Arkwright Road, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
Wright, Captain A. F., Trent Valley House, Lichfield.
Bond, Mrs. W. C, Shalesbrook, Forest Row, Sussex.
Brown, Leo. M., P.O. Box 953, Mobile, Alabama, U.S.A.
Clark, Mrs. Cecil, c/o Royal Bank of Canada, Port of Spain,
Trinidad.
HiCHENS, Mrs. W. Lionel, 15 Buckingham Palace Gardens, London,
S.W.
James, Brig.-Genekal C. H. L., C.B., C.M.G., United Service Club,
London, S.W. 1.
Johnson, Mrs., Abbot's Bay, Nr. Keswick.
Lyell, Major A. G., 68 Upper Richmond Road, Putney, London,
S.W. 15.
Smith, Rev. William J., St. Marnock's Manse, Kilmarnock.
Southern, H., 24 Carholme Road, Forest Hill, London, S.E. 23.
Thrupp, T. C, Claremont, Woodlands Road, Redhill, Surrey.
Elected 9th December, 1919.
Carter, Mrs. H. A., Mena House, St. Erth, Hayle, Cornwall.
Davies, D. Berrington G., J.P,, Parcygors, Llechryd, Cardigan-
shire.
Hobhouse, Mrs. Henry, 1 Airlie Gardens, London, W. 8.
Trethewy, A. W., 4 St. James's Place, London, S.W. 1.
Alden, H. W., 21 Edison Avenue, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
1
January, 1920. Meetings of the Council. 135
Bonus, A. E., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
Hills, Miss H. D., 55 Windsor Road, Ealing, London, W. 5.
HOTBLACK, Frank A., Fairfield, Hambledon, Hants.
MiLLEK, Mrs. Carolyn A., (Taincsville, Florida, U.S.A.
TusoN, K. H., E.E., Camorta, St. Leonard's Road, Eastbourne.
Weinberg, Dr. A. A., Conservator of the Psychiatrical Laboratoiy,
Helperoostsingel 2, Groningen, Holland.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 166th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Monday, November 17th, 1919, at
3.30 p.m. ; The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour in the chair.
There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mr. J. G.
Piddington, Mr. St. G. Fox Pitt, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ; also Mrs. Salter,
Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Eight new Members and ten new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for October, 1919, were presented
and taken as read.
A letter was read from Mr. Feilding, resigning his position
as Honorary Secretary of the Society on account of his frequent
absences from home. The Council accepted Mr. Feilding's
resignation with much regret.
The Resolutions to be proposed at the Extraordinary General
Meeting of the Society to be held at 4 p.m. on the same day
were brought before the Council and approved.
The 167th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Tuesday, December 9th, 1919, at 3.30
p.m.; Mr. J. G. Piddington in the chair. There were also
present: Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Cap-
tain E. N. Bennett, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ; also Mrs. Salter,
Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
A 2
136 Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Research. January. 1920
The proceedings of the Extraordinary Cleneral Meeting held
on November 17th were read.
Four new Members and seven new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for November. 1919, were presented
and taken as read.
EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETINGS OF THE
SOCIETY.
An Extraordinary General Meeting of the Society was held
at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Monday, November
17th, 1919, at 4 p.m.; The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour
in the chair. There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally,
Captain E. N. Bennett, Mr. H. B. Fitch, Mrs. Home, Miss
S. Boucher James, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. G. L. Fox
Pitt, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Miss F. R. Scatcherd, Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Dr. V. J. WooUey (and by Proxy :
Miss Balfour, the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, the Hon. Everard
Feilding, Sir Oliver Lodge, Sir Lawrence Jones, and Dr. T.
W. Mitchell) ; also Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
Notice of the Meeting and of the subjoined Resolutions was
read.
THE RESOLUTIONS ABOVE REFERRED TO.
The following new Article shall be inserted after Article 11,
namely :
llrf. The Council shall have power in its discretion from time
to time and for such period or periods as it shall deem
expedient to suspend the election of Associates of the Society.
The following Articles shall be substituted for Articles 16,
17, and 21, namely :
16. The annual subscription payable by Members of the
Society shall be Two Guineas or such larger sum as the Council
may from time to time determine ;
provided that any member
mav compound for such annual subscriptions and become a
Life Member upon making a single payment of an amount
equal to ten times the Member's annual subscription for the
time being.
Januakv, 1020. Extraordinary General Meeting. 137
17. The annual subscription payable by Associates of the
Society shall be One Guinea or such larger sum not exceeding
the amount of the subscription for the time being payable
by Members of the Society as the Council may from time to
time determine ;
provided that any Associate may compound
for such annual subscriptions and become a Life Associate
upon making a single payment of an amount equal to ten
times the Associate's annual subscription for the time being.
21. Members and Associates shall be entitled to purchase
all the periodical publications of the Society at half the price
at which they are sold to the public.
The Hon. Treasm'er, Mr. J. G. Piddington, moved that the
said Resolutions be passed en bloc ; the motion was seconded
by Mr. Sydney C. Scott, and carried.
Notice was given that the said Resolutions wouM be sub-
mitted for confirmation as Special Resolutions to a further
Extraordinary General Meeting of the Society to be held
at 20 Hanover Square on Tuesday, December 9th, 1919, at
4 p.m.
An Extraordinary General Meeting of the Society was held
at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Tuesday, December
9th, 1919, at 4 p.m. ; Mr. J. G. Piddington in the chair.
There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, The Rt. Hon.
Gerald W. Balfour, The Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Captain E. N.
Bennett, Mrs. Boustead, Mr. H. B. Fitch, ]\Irs. W. H. Salter,
Miss Scatcherd, Dr. V. J. WooUey (and by Proxy: Sir W. F.
Barrett, The Hon. Everard Feilding, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Miss
M. Radclyffe-Hall, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and (Una) Lady
Troubridge) ; also Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
Notice of the Meeting and of the Resolutions that were
passed at the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Society
held on November 17th, 1919, was read.
The Minutes of the previous Extraordinary General Meeting
were read and signed as correct.
The Resolutions which are given in detail in the Minutes
of the preceding Extraordinary General Meeting were submitted
for confirmation as Special Resolutions and carried unanimously.
138 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. .Tanuakt, 1920.
CASE.
L. 1228. Telepathic; Impression.
The following report of an impression aj^parently derived from
a telepathic som:ce received at the moment of waking, has
been sent to us by Mr. B. Jordan-Smith, an Associate of the
Society. In sending his first report of the case Mr. Jordan-
Smith wrote as follows :
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Orchardlea,
Grosvenor Road,
Caversham,
Reading.
November, 27, 1919.
The enclosed details I think come within the category of " Telepathy
without Conscious Effort and may be of use to you for publica-
tion in the Journal, or for the Society to keep.
Miss B. M. Thomas is a Birmingham friend of ours and staying
at the above address for a few days. So far I have never tried
any telepathic experiments with the lady.
After relating what she said was her dream, she modified it
by saying that she was more or less in the stage of waking
(half awake).
Mrs. Jordan-Smith confirms these statements as she was present
at the time.
B. Jordan-Smith.
The following statements were enclosed with this letter :
November 2Gth, 1919 (written 10 a.m.)
I.
At 8.30 a.m. this morning at breakfast at the above address. Miss
Ethel Thomas, a visitor, related what she said at the time was a
dream, just on the point of waldng up, as follows :
" I was counting the number of men and women going on
board ship at Southampton, and the number was fifteen.
I could almost tell who they were."
I mentioned that I thought that this was a case of " telepathy
without conscious effort," and related that at 8.15 a.m. I was
January, 1920. Case. 139
shaving in an adjoining room, and counting up in my mind the
number of people going on board ship on Thursday, and on a
ship at Southampton, the same time. The total number was 15.
Mrs. Jordan-Smith just after I had shaved went into Miss
Thomas's room to rouse her.
B. Jordan-Smith.
II.
November 26, 1919.
[I was] just dreaming when Mrs. B. Jordan-Smith called me
this morning (or rather she came into my room and touched me
and said :
" Breakfast will soon be ready, but no hurry ").
I got up, without hurry, and came down and found Mr. and
Mrs. Jordan-Smith having breakfast. I said to Mrs. Jordan-
Smith : "I was dreaming about a ship when you came and woke
me." Mr. Jordan-Smith then took it up :
" What about a ship ?
"
he asked. "Oh,"" I replied, "it was just going from Southampton,
and I stood by counting the people going aboard." " How many ?
"
he asked.
" Fifteen" I replied.
He then told me that just before, and at the time Mrs. Jordan-
Smith broke into my dream, he was shaving in bath-room, and
was thinking over a ship sailing from Southampton next day, on
which he had fifteen passengers.
Ethel Marler Thomas.
{witness) Annie Jordan-Smith.
We then wrote to Mr. Jordan-Smith to enquire whether he
could state that to the best of his belief no mention had
been made in Miss Thomas's hearing of the fact that he had
a ship sailing from Southampton on the following Thursday,
and we also enquired whether Miss Thomas would have any
general reason for associating with him a ship sailing from
Southampton rather than another port. In reply we received
the following answer from Mr. Jordan-Smith :
In reply to yours of the 2nd inst., re my experiences with
Miss E. M. Thomas, " Telepathy without Conscious Effort."
The evening previous to this experience, I in no way mentioned
about Passengers, Shipping or Southampton to Miss Thomas or
any one at Orchardlea.
I passed your letter without comment this morning (December
140 Journal of Society for Psycldcal Research. Januaey, 1920.
3rd, 1919) to Mrs. Jordan Smith and on reading the same, she
commented to me :
" You never mentioned anything about
Shipping then, and generally you never talk about your business."
I have no objection to my full name and address being used
in connection with this.
I sent your letter on to Miss Thomas without comment, and
herewith enclose her reply.
B. Jordan Smith.
The letter from Miss Thomas to which Mr. Jordan-Smith
refers, was as follows : >
127 Barclay Road,
Bearwood, Birmingham.
December ith, 1919.
I have read the letter from the Editor of the S.P.R. and will
now answer his questions, which I think he has every right to
ask, as jsersonally I consider these instances no good at all as
evidence, unless they are questioned and looked into from every
point of view.
As far as I can remember during my thirteen days visit to
your house, only one ship was mentioned and that was when
you remarked you might have to go to London, for the day to
see some people off from some docks there, and I said, " Oh,
if you go on a Friday be sure and visit the Caledonian Market,"
knowing your interest in antiques. I was not at all interested
in the ship itself and can't even remember where it was going to.
That was in the early part of my visit and the dream occurred
on the last morning of my visit, the only morning in fact that
I had breakfast with you ;
having got ujj early to go into town
with Mrs. Jordan-Smith.
Re the day before (Tuesday [November 25, 1919]) I saw you at
lunch-time, but you didn't come up to tea, and 1 decided not to
go to the dancing-class with Mrs. Jordan-Smith, my foot being
painful. I therefore spent the evening alone finishing a novel,
and also looked at one or two humorous journals, with a view
to getting ideas for my own art and work.
You and Mrs. Jordan-Smith returned about 10.35 and we had
supper, talked about dancing and went to bed, my mind being
set very strongly all the time upon my art work and getting ideas
for same (I never draw ships or anything to do with ships, or
the sea, as you know).
January, 1920. Correspondence. 141
It was in fact only by the merest chance that I mentioned
my dream to you at all, not being at all superstitious about
dreams myself, or taking any notice of them.
I also think that names and addresses should be mentioned
and he is quite at liberty to use mine.
Ethel M. Thomas.
It appears from the above statements that Miss Thomas
had no special reason on the morning of Wednesday, November
26th, 1919, for thinking of a ship sailing from Southampton,
and the fui-ther close coincidence between her waking impression
and Mr. Jordan-Smith's thoughts, both in time and in contents,
makes it difficult to ascribe the incident to chance.
We are indebted to Mr. and Mrs. Jordan-Smith and Miss
Thomas for the trouble they have taken in this matter and
for permission to print their names and addresses.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
NOMENCLATURE.
1.
Madam,—As suggested by the Rev. Percy Dearmer in his letter
of Aug. 25th, there seems to be room for improvement in some
of the terms more or less commonly used in connection with
psychical research and it would no doubt be beneficial if a standard
nomenclature could be agreed upon and authoritatively adopted
before such terms become stereotyped in current hterature. This
is . a matter which I think should be dealt with jointly by the
Councils of the English and American Societies for Psychical
Research.
With reference to a general name to cover the whole field of
investigation, the terms " Spirituahsm " and " Spiritism," as
pointed out by Mr. Dearmer, are both undesirable, and moreover,
as commonly used, they refer only to one branch of the subject.
A further objection, to my mind, lies in their tendency to obscure
the difference between soul (psyche) and spirit (pneuma) in the
human trinity of body, soul and spirit. The two words are often
employed so indiscriminately, that soul and spirit come to be
regarded as identical. Regarding the investigations of the S.P.R.
142 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Januaht, 1920.
as being relative to the soul, I think that for a general name for
the whole subject, " Psychics " would best meet the case, as
being the simplest and analogous to physics, mathematics, etc.
Following this analogy, the corresponding adjective " psychical
"
should be adopted and the abbreviated form " psychic " should
be dropped.
I am not quite sure whether the term " psycho-diaphory,"
for the phenomena or alleged phenomena of communication with
another world, is put forward by Mr. Dearmer as a definite
proposal, but if so, I think he must have overlooked the medical
term " diaphoresis," used to signify sweating. This will probably
be a fatal objection to the suggestion.
" Medium " ought certainly to be discarded entirely. In the
Glossary at the commencement of Human Personality, Myers stated
his preference for " automatist " or " sensitive," and of the two,
the former seems the better, being free from implication as to
the origin of the phenomena.
J. T. COOTE.
To the Editor of the Journal op the S.P.R.
II.
Madam,- Dr. Dearmer's letter in the October issue of the Journal
raises a point of real importance.
As we are the Society for Psychical Research the subject which
we investigate must obviously have a " " in it.
The " ology " which properly belongs to use has been appropriated
by others. I think, however, that " psychics " is still to let.
This term seems logically correct. As an analogy we have the
physical society dealing with physics.
The objection is that the term " jisychic " has been somewhat
widely used to describe a sensitive or automatist. This use
however is not very widely spread and can probably be sup-
pressed in due course.
We can frame several nice long words on ^y^V'^hics, e.g. the
study of " physical " phenomena becomes psycho-dynamics, a
sensitive is dia-psychic, ordinary people are adia-psychic.
Undoubtedly the term medium, should be eliminated but we
are hardly likely to get any better substitutes than sensitive
and Automatist. •
The " really nice names for simple folk " are impossible of
\
January, 1920. Revieio. 143
attainment. All the simple nice names, and nasty ones too, have,
like the simple houses, been taken long ago.
And why do we want names to put into a sonnet " ? Does
the Reverend Doctor wish to see the terse prose of the S.P.R.
proceedings give place to lyrics ? If so, our poetical sub-Uminals
will have to write the papers as well as supply material for them.
G. E. Wright.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
III.
Madam,—Mr. Percy Dearmer's letter of August 25, is very much
to the point. Many people who are interested in Psychical
Research do not call themselves spirituahsts but would have
no objection to be called Psychists (Greek, Psuche, the soul,
istes, one who is skilled or has studied). Again, instead of talking
of Spiritualism let us talk of Psychics (Greek, Psuche, the Soul,
ika, things relating to), just as we do of Optics, things relating
to the science of magnitudes.
There is much more in a name than many realise, and a
general adoption of the above would raise the whole subject
in the opinion of the public to a scientific plane.
J. Arthur Findlay.
[We print the above selection from the letters which have reached
us on this subject. The stiggestion that the terms " psychism " or
psychics " should be used has been made by other correspondents
also.—Ed.
REVIEW.
My Comvionplace Book. By J. T. Hackett. T. Fisher Unwin.
12s. 6d. net.
Mr. Hackett, who has been an Associate of the Society for many
years, has, in the intervals of practising as a lawyer in Australia,
compiled a very interesting selection of those passages in literature
which have particularly attracted his attention. Mr. Hackett was an
intimate friend, from his youth upwards, of Dr. Richard Hodgson,
to whose enthusiastic work the Society owed much in its earlier
days, and, as he tells us in his Preface,
about one-third of the main quotations , . . came direct from Hodgson.
He left Australia in 1877, but we maintained a voluminous corre-
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Januaky, 1920.
spondence until 1886. . . . Thus directly and indirectly Hodgson has
much to do with the book, and, if it had been practicable, I would
liave placed his name on the title-page,
This circumstance will give the book a special interest to members
of the Society, who will find much in it to attract them on other
grounds. It contains a wide and varied selection from authors of
different periods, but especially from authors writing in " the seventies
and eighties " of the last century, concerning many of whom, since
they have fallen out of sight in recent years, the reader will be glad
to have his memory refreshed.
Besides the quotations, Mr. Hackett has introduced many notes
and comments of his own. Thus to the well-known passage in
which Myers explains how he came to find the Hellenic ideal of life
inadequate, he appends an interesting, if contentious, expression of
his own views on the subject.
All profits derived from the sale of the book will be paid to the
Eed Cross Fund
H. DE G. S.
No. CCCLXII.—Vol. XIX. February, 1920.
JOURNAL
OF THE
for Psychical Research.
CONTEXTS.
New Members,
Aunual General Meeting,
Meetings of the Council,
Private Jleeting,
Annual Report of the Council,
Accounts,
Notices,
Case, -
Correspondence,
Er
PACE
145
140
151
1'.2
152
153
160
161
lea
164
NEW MEMBERS.
Brown, William, M.D., D.Sc, It Welbeck Street, Cavendish
Square, London, W. 1.
Fisher, Mrs. C. D. Corbett, 11 Upper Cheyne Row, Chelsea,
London, S.W. 3.
Heyer, Dr. J. 0., 83 Kic. Maesstreet, Amsterdam, Holland.
Holmyard, Roy, 5 Hedgerow Lane, Clifton, Cincinnati, Ohio, L'.S.A.
Mackie, John, Surgeon, Ockbrook, Nr. Derby.
Millard, C. Killick, M.D., Groby Road, Leicester.
Roach, 0. A., 401 Cedar Street, San Antonio, Texas, U.S.A.
Robson, Miss E. M. U., 35a Charlwood Street, London, S.W. 1.
Salter, F. R., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
Summerson, F. C, St. Bernards, Lancing, Sussex.
Van Loon, Dr. F. H., c/o Hoofdbureau B.G.D., Weltevreden, Java.
Warner, Rev. D. V., 42 Belsize Park, Hampstead, London, N. VV. 3.
Whitfield, A. Stanton, F.R.H.S., High Street, Walsall, Staffs.
Wood, Richard, Roseville, Sunday's Well, Cork.
Woolley, F. Duke, M.D., 13 Maresfiekl Gardens, Hampstead, Lon-
don, N.W. 3.
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was
held at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Wednesday,
January 28th, 1920, at 3.15 p.m.. The Right Hox. Gerald W.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS.
146 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. February, 1920.
Balfour in the chair. Other Members present were : Lady
Anderson, Colonel C. E. Baddeley, Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir
William Barrett, the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Captain P. E. Beavis,
Captain E. N. Bennett, Mrs. Boustead, Captain C. Cave,
Miss Corry, Miss Cotterell, Mrs. Courage, the Hon. E. Feilding,
Mr. Hugh B. Fitch, Rev. W. S. Irving, Sir Lawrence J. Jones,
Mr. F. A. Leaf, Mrs. Oldham. Mr. J. G. Piddington, Miss
Radclyffe-Hall, Lady Rayleigh, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H.
Salter, Miss Scatcherd, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidg-
wick, Mr. W. Whately Smith, Lady Troubridge, Miss Upton,
Lieut.-Colonel L. P. Winby, and Dr. V. J. WooUey.
The Report of the Council for 1919, printed below, was read.
The audited account of income and expenditure for the year
1919, also printed below, was presented and taken as read.
Mrs. Leila Boustead, who had given notice of her intention
to speak, rose and spoke as follows :
Mrs. Boustead said she was present on behalf of a large
number of Members and Associates who felt convinced, as
she long had, that dissatisfaction exists with regard to the
methods of the Society. She had invited correspondence on
the question and had received a great number of letters, all
practically without exception endorsing her views of the dis-
content at the lethargic state of the Society. That morning
she had received a letter from an important Member, Sir
i\xthur Conan Doyle, stating that he would support the
resolution.
The Society's sound and critical methods were well-known
;
it was called a Society for Research, but she submitted that
too little research work was done. The Journal was often full
of matter that was valueless and uninteresting.
Another subject upon which reform w^as desired was the
papers read to the Society. She put in a plea for simpler
papers. Those by leading lights in psychical research, men
whose names did not require to be mentioned, had always
been interesting and to the point. But they had heard some
papers which were not. One, of a medical nature on the
conscious and unconscious complexes, was most technical and
could be followed only by the deepest scientists.
The S.P.R. had fallen into a rut of lethargy and had adopted
a non-progressive policy. The whole subject of psychical
Februaet, 1920. Anmud General Meeting. 147
research had become one of the burning questions of the day
and people would no longer be content with such slow
methods.
Mrs. Boustead suggested that new members should be elected
on to the Council and should be people who had leisure to
give time to the work, which many of those now on the
Council had not. For this reason she suggested that half the
new members should be women.
She also suggested that more research officers should be
appointed, not necessarily paid ; such officers to be elected
from the Members and Associates according to their abihty.
She asked why the experiments of Dr. Crawford at Belfast
had not been taken up. These well-attested physical pheno-
mena should long since have engaged the attention of the
Society, and she would ask why such things were neglected.
She suggested that several well-known mediums should be
investigated and reports published. She knew that for this
purpose money was necessary, but if the Society was not a
wealthy one that was its own fault. If things were on a more
progressive footing, a large membership would come in. As
it was, members resigned. She was sure many people would
come forward with funds if the work were more active.
Mrs. Boustead then proposed to submit a Resolution to
the meeting. The Chairman (Mr. G. W. Balfour) pointed out
that no notice of the Resolution had been given and no copy of
it sent to the Secretary, although it appeared to be more or
less in the nature of a vote of censure on the Council. It
was doubtful whether such a Resolution would be in order, at
all events at this stage of the proceedings. He thought how-
ever that Mrs. Boustead might be allowed to put it before
the meeting as an amendment to the Report.
It was then proposed by Mrs. Boustead and seconded by
Colonel Baddeley that the following Resolution should be
passed as an amendment to the Report :
" Whilst fully recognising the importance of critical and
cautious investigation into psychical research, and^ the perman-
ent value of the work done already by the S.P.R., we think
the time has come for a more active and progressive poUcy.
The impression widely exists that the official attitude of the
S.P.R. (negative rather than positive) is more that of a detec-
A 2
148 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. February, 1920.
tive, anxious to expose fraud, than that of an open-minded
investigator.
Accordingly we desire the addition of new members on to
the Council, who will inspire a more active spirit into the
Society ; also the appointment of at least one additional
Research Officer, with or without remuneration, who will give
a patient and sympathetic enquiry into all evidence submitted
by members and others."
Colonel Baddeley said that he had talked the matter over
with members of the Society and they gave it as their opinion
that there was not a close enough connexion in the Society
between the various members scattered about the country
;
it was thought that if there were a closer connexion many
would be willing to do work and more research would be
done.
The Society inevitably had split up into certain groups of
thought and it was desirable that work .should be carried out
in all these groups. One group included those whose evidence
tended towards the spiritualistic hypothesis. A second group
thought that most of the phenomena could be explained by ab-
normal psychological processes, but agreed there was a large
supernormal residue. A third group had not found evidence
for any extraneous phenomena whatever. It was a pity that
the Society should carry out its research along only one of
these lines ; it should be carried out along each.
Mr. Everard Feilding asked along which line it ivas carried
out, but Colonel Baddeley said that this was rather an invidious
question.
(Una) Lady Troubridge said that, in reply to Mrs. Boustead,
she and Miss Radclyffe-Hall had only been members of the
Society a short time when they came to the Secretary with
some reports ;
they received every encouragement and assist-
ance and were very shortly asked to read the paper which
had recently been published.
Sir William F. Barrett said he had had many letters
from Members and Associates urging a more active policy, but
he wanted emphatically to say to those who might be dis-
satisfied with the somewhat slow and cautious methods of
the Society that any attempt to depart in the slightest way
from the strictly scientific j^roceedings of the Society, or from
Februakt, 1920. Anmtal General Meeting. 149
the fundamental basis upon which the Society was founded
would meet with the most strenuous opposition on his part
and on the part of many others.
Colonel Baddeley interposed to say that he was not
complaining of the critical and sound basis upon which the
Society worked. The work of the Society was excellent, so
far as it went, but it did not go far enough.
Sir William Barrett (resuming) said that a crisis had
arisen in the history of the Society in its very early years.
Certain influential members were anxious that the Society
should proceed more rapidly and approach more nearly to
what they regarded as the spiritualistic standpoint. Their
views did not meet with the approval of the Council at the
time and several of them resigned. But to the views they
advocated the Society had steadily approached. You could
not hurry psychical research and you must not expect rapid
progress.
Captain Bennett said that, with regard to the investiga-
tion of sporadic hauntings, the failure to investigate was
often due to the fact that the number of people able and
willing to undertake these researches was limited. If those
members who would give a general undertaking to do this
work, if possible, would send in their names to the Secretary,
interest in the Society would be spread over a larger area
and good work would be done.
Mr. Baggally said he could speak from many years'
experience of investigating haunted houses, etc. It was neces-
sary to have experienced investigators.
Mr. Bayfield said that the Resolution contained extra-
ordinary demands and he did not see how any Society could
vote on all this at once.
As to the cry of discouragement by the officers of the
Society he beUeved it was to be found in the prospectus
of rules that they earnestly asked all members to do all they
could for the Society. The complaint, he thought, was that
members would not do enough. The Society had welcomed all
that its members would do.
Secondly, as Mr. Baggally had stated, very few people were
capable of carrying on well a diflicult investigation. The
Society would find itself in an extremely false position if it
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. February, 1920.
appointed a member who was unqualified and unsuitable for
official research. An incapable investigator would damage
the prestige of the Society. Its position in the eyes of the
public depended very largely on the fact that it was careful,
sober and deliberate.
Mr. Whately Smith said he would like to answer one
specific point which Mrs. Boustead had made. With regard
to Dr. Crawford's experiments, the Society, he believed, had
got into touch with Dr. Crawford three years ago and had
tried to enquire into the phenomena. Two years ago there
had been a suggestion that he himself and two members of
the Council should go over to Belfast to have sittings. But
Dr. Crawford had not agreed to this and up to the present
was not willing that any other investigators should take part
in the case.
Mr. Feilding endorsed what Mr. Whately Smith had
said about the attitude of Dr. Crawford. His reason for
refusing an investigation was that he was engaged on a series
of experiments on one or two points, upon which he was
anxious to satisfy himself before admitting the public in any
way.
Mr. Feilding also drew attention to the great amount of
work that was done without there being anything to show for
it. He said that having been Honorary Secretary for a number
of years he had seen that a great many cases could never be
brought to the point at which any report upon them was
possible ; he himself had been recently investigating a case of
that sort. He doubted whether, even if Mrs. Boustead's
suggestion of appointing another research officer were carried
out, it would make much difference in the work of the Society.
After some remarks by the Chairman on the importance of
maintaining the high scientific standard of the Society, the
Resolution was put to the Meeting as an amendment to the
Report and was defeated by a large majority, only five persons
voting for it : the Report was then adopted.
The Chairman announced that the five retiring Members of
the Council offered themselves for re-election, and that to
fill a further vacancy, caused by the previous retirement of
Dr. Milne Bramwell, Dr. L. P. Jacks, late President of the
Society and at present a co-opted member of Council, was
Febrcaey, 1920. Meetings of the Council. 151
proposed by Mrs. Henry Sidgwick and seconded by Mr. J. G.
Piddington. No other nominations having been received, the
following were declared to be duly elected Members of the
Council : Sir WilHam Barrett, The Hon. Everard Feilding,
Dr. L. P. Jacks, Professor Gilbert Murray, Mr. J. G. Pidding-
ton, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 168th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, VV., on Wednesday, January 28th, 1920, at
2.30 p.m. ; The Rt. Hon. Geeald W. Balfour in the chair.
There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William
Barrett, Rev. M. A. Bayfield. Captain E. N. Bennett, Hon.
Everard Feilding, Sir Lawrence Jones, Mr. J. G. Piddington,
Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J.
WooUey ; also Miss I. Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as
correct.
The Council filled the vacant place among their elected
members, caused by the death of Lord Rayleigh, by appoint-
ing to it Dr. T. W. Mitchell, hitherto a co-opted member.
As a result of the increase in the cost of the production
of the Proceedings and Journal and in other expenses of the
Society, the Council decided, on the Hon. Treasurer's j)roposal,
to suspend the election of new Associates.
The Report of the Council was considered, and approved as
amended, for the year 1919.
The 169th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Wednesday, January 28th, 1920,
immediately after the Annual General Meeting ; The Rt. Hon.
Gerald W. Baleour in the chair. There were also present :
Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William Barrett, Captain E. N.
Bennett, Hon. Everard Feilding, Sir Lawrence Jones, Mr.
J. G. Piddington, -Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
and Dr. V. J. WooUey ; also Mrs. Salter, Editor, and Miss
I. Newton, Secretary.
152 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. February, 1920.
Dr. William M'Dougall, F.R.S., was elected President of
the Society for the year 1920.
Mr. J. G. Piddington was re-elected Hon. Treasurer ; Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick, Hon. Secretary ; and Mr. John Avery, Auditor,
for the current year.
The following were co-opted as Members of the Council
for the year 1920 : the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Sir George Beilby,
F.R.S., Mr. G. Lowes Dickinson, Sir Lawrence Jones, Mr.
W. H. Salter, Dr. V. J. Woolley, and Dr. M. B. Wright.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication.—The Rt. Hon.
Gerald W. Balfour, Sir William F. Barrett, the Rev. M. A.
Bayfield, the Hon. Everard Feilding, Dr. W. Leaf, Sir Oliver
Lodge, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington, and Mrs.
H. Sidgwick.
Library Committee.—Sir William Barrett, the Hon. Everard
Feilding, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, and Mr. J. G. Piddington.
House and Finance Committee.—Mr. W. W. Baggally, the
Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. J. G. Piddington, and Mr. Sydney
C. Scott.
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were
elected for the year 1920.
Fifteen new Members Vv'ere elected. Their names and
addresses are given above.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
The 61st Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber, at 20 Han-
over Square, London, W., on Wednesday, January 28th, 1920,
at 5 p.m. ; The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour in the
chair.
Mrs. W. H. Salter read selections from a paper by Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick on " A Report on Some Book Tests obtained
through Mrs. Leonard." It is hoped that the full paper will
be published later in the Proceedings.
REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR THE YEAR 1919.
In our Report for 1918 we drew attention to the fact that
the total membership of the Society which, as a result of
February, 1920. Report of the Council for the Year. 153
the war, showed a marked decrease during the years 1914,
1915, and 1916, had since then been increasing. It is satis-
factory to be able to report a further substantial increase
of 99 during the past year. Seventy-three new Members have
heen elected, the average annual number elected during the
previous nine years being 27, and 17 Associates have become
Members, of whom a considerable proportion have taken this
step as a result of the aj)peal for donations towards the
cost of printing ; 116 new Associates have been elected and
8 Members have become Associates. The unusually large num-
ber of Members elected in proportion to Associates is a point
of some interest in view of the financial position discussed
below. The losses from death during the past year, 8 Mem-
bers and 20 Associates, have been exceptionally large ; the
losses from resignations and failure to renew subscriptions
amount to 19 Members and 43 Associates.
The total membership of the Society now stands at 1305,
of whom 403 are Members and 902 Associates, as compared
with 290 Members and 953 Associates at the end of 1913,
the last year before the war.
Evidence of the increased interest taken in the Society's work
<3an also be derived from the more frequent use made of the
Library, and from the sale of publications. As regards the
Library, the total number of books borrowed during the last
two years exceeds the total number borrowed during the preceding
four. The total amount realised during the past year by
the sale of publications in this country is £49 16s. Od. by
sales to the general public, £111 Os. lOd. by sales at half-price
to Members and Associates. Thus the unusually large sum
of £104 15s. 9d. obtained bv sales to Members and Associates
in 1918, has been exceeded. More significance attaches to
these figures when we remember that they are not affected
by the recent increase in the price of publications and that
the output of the Society has again been small. The sum of
£8 13s. Od. has been realised by sales in America.
Lord Rayleigh was elected President of the Society last
January and gave his Presidential Address in April. His
lamented death in June has left us for some months without
a President, as it seemed better not to fill the vacancy till
the usual time. The Society is to be congratulated that their
154 Journal of Society for Psychical ResearcJi. February, 1920.
presidential chair was filled by so eminent a man of science,
even for a short time, and it will be a lasting honour to us to
have his name on the roll of ex-Presidents.
The Society has suffered another loss of a much valued
member in the death of Sir William Crookes, a former President
and Vice-President.
The Society will regret the retirement of the Hon. Everard
feilding from the post of Honorary Secretary which he has
held since 1903. Mr. Feilding has been abroad for the greater
part of the last five years, and is rather frequently called
abroad by business, and he thinks he can serve the Society
as an ordinary member of the Council as well as he could
in the capacity of Honorary Secretary. For the moment the
Council have not filled his place.
The retirement from the Council of Dr. Milne Bramwell,
after giving us for many years the benefit of his support,
leaves a vacancy on that body. Dr. Bramwell would have
retired in rotation after this Meeting, which has the duty
of filling his place and that of the five other members of
the Council who retire in rotation.
The casual vacancy on the Council caused by the death
of Lord Rayleigh has been filled by the Council itself, under
Article 33, by the election of Dr. T. W. Mitchell, previously
a co-opted member. Dr. Mitchell's services to the Society are
well known.
The expense of printing has continued to be a subject of
anxiety to the Council. The generous help they have re-
ceived from Members and Associates in donations (£91 9s. Od.
during 1919, including £50 from Mrs. Salter, and taking 1918
and 1919 together about £206) and the additional subscriptions
received from those Associates who have become Members,
prevent immediate financial difficulty. But it now appears
probable that the larger part of the expenses of j^ri^ting,
that depending on labour, is likely to remain at its present
high level. Other expenses, such as salaries, are rising, and
presently rent will also rise. It would be impossible to go
on indefinitely appealing for donations, and the Council feel
that some way of permanently increasing the available income
must if possible be found. If we divide expenses by the
number of Members and Associates of the Society, we find
February, 1920. Rejyort of the Council for the Year. 155
that the share per head is considerably over the guinea paid
by Associates, and the Council have decided that for the
present at least, it will be best to try the experiment of
electing no new Associates, hoping that most of those who
would have joined as Associates will be willing to join as
Members. The elasticity secured by the changes lately made
by the Society in its Articles of Association renders this
arrangement possible. Existing Associates will continue as
before. It is also proposed to raise the price of both current
and past Parts of Proceedings to outsiders. The half-price paid
by Members for extra copies or back Parts will of course
go up automatically at the same time.
The Council hope that these arrangements may secure the
necessary increase of revenue. If they do not, other steps
will have to be taken to enable the Society to carry on its
work ; but the Council are reluctant either to raise the fees
paid by existing Members and Associates or to reduce the
output of work or pubhcations, if it can be avoided.
The accounts for 1919, like those for 1918, look more
favourable than they should because the amount of matter
published during both years has been small. Only one Part
of Proceedings was actually issued in 1919. This has been
partly due to printer's delays and partly to other difficulties.
The result is a considerable accmnulation of matter for publi-
cation, the first instalmcDt of which is Part 78, completing
when the Index is ready Vol. XXX., which has been circulated
this month. Two further Parts should appear shortly, for
we have waiting for publication Dr. Mitchell's paper on the
Doris Fischer Case, read in 1918 ; the Report on the Sittings
with Mrs. Leonard arranged by the Society which was read
in part in January 1919 ; Dr. Jung's paper read in July
1919 ; and Mr. Hubert Wales" paper read in part in October
1919 ; besides other matter.
The return of peace has, as we hoped, led to marked
signs of increasing activity in Psychical Research, and the
advent of a greater number of competent workers into the
field is likely to increase the amount of work done. Not
that we can reasonably expect much more rajjid progress
in systematizing the knowledge acquired. That this should
be done is of course of the utmost importance, but progress
156 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Februaey, 1920.
in it must almost necessarily be slow if it is to be good,
and in order to secure a sound basis for interpretation further
accumulation of empirical knowledge both by experiment and
observation is greatly needed. It is in the accumulation of
this that more workers are especially needed. As members
of the Society well know, however, mere goodwill in an
investigator is not enough. Neither spontaneous cases, nor
experiments, are of much use unless carefully observed and
recorded, and to do this well some experience is usually
needed, as, without it, points which it is important to look
out for and record are not always realised. Some good work may
lose its value in this way. But it is also to be observed that
work well done may sometimes have to remain in the archives
of the Society unpublished and unprinted. This may easily
happen in negative cases, for if investigation leads to the
conclusion that there has probably been trickery or self-
deception it is often impossible to say so publicly without
giving pain or annoyance to people who have perhaps taken
special pains to give facilities for investigation. This kind
of disappointment is not perhaps very important, because
though the particulars of such a case may be helpful in
other investigations, it is of course positive evidence that
we are in search of. Another and more regrettable disappoint-
ment occurs when an investigator is unable to look into a
case with sufficient thoroughness to make his researches of
use ; or when having obtained all the available evidence he
is unable to make up his own mind on the conclusion to
be drawn.
All this is perhaps something of a digression from a report
on the work of the year, but the Council is anxious it should
be fully understood that not all the investigations conducted
can be included in the publications of the Society.
The widespread interest taken recently in psychical research
and in " spiritualism " has resulted in an increased number
of interviews with peojDle visiting the Society's rooms in
search of information and advice, which has been freely given.
This is a kind of work which has httle immediate result,
but from which both the public and the Society are likely
in the long run to benefit.
All spontaneous cases or experiments that are sent to us
February, 1920. Report of the Council for the Year. 157
with permission to print, if they seem to come up to the
evidential standard required, are printed in the Journal or
find their way into papers in the Proceedings.
It is perhaps a symptom of increasing help received by
the Council from members of the Society, and an earnest
of still more in the future, that we have during 1919 had
nine good spontaneous cases to print in the Journal as against
six in 1918 and seven in 1917. These nine, except a premonitory
case, are all recent, and have been recorded at intervals of a
fortnight to ten months of their occurrence, and—what is inter-
esting—four of them were apparitions at the time of death,
a kind of case important in itself and valuable because of
the definiteness of the coincidence. The Council also attach
great importance to the piece of research carried out by Mr.
Hubert Wales independently and on his own initiative. If
more members could find opportunity for equally valuable
work the Society would greatly benefit.
The Society was glad to have the opportunity last summer
of hearing a paper from Dr. C. G. Jung, which, it is hoped,
will shortly be published in Proceedings. Much of the work
which is being done now in other branches of psychology
has an obvious bearing upon psychical research and anything
which conduces to a rapprochement between workers outside
our immediate circle is all the more desirable now that our
own Medical Section has been suspended, as explained in
the Journal for November-December.
The Society's American Agents, the W. B. Clarke Co., having
retired from business, the F. W. Faxon Co. have now been
appointed in their place and are conducting the business
actively and efficiently.
The Council have made arrangement for an investigation
of the medium known as " Eva C," of whose phenomena so
much has been written by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing and by
Madame Bisson, the lady with whom Eva C. lives. The
pubhshed reports, including Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing's book,
were reviewed by Mrs. Salter in Proceedings, Vol. XXVII.,
p. 333, in 1914. The phenomena are curious and puzzKng and
so far, as we think must be admitted, somewhat inconclusive.
But there are indications of some unexplained physiological
or psychical phenomena, which need further elucidation. Madame
I> o
.-lO C. o ooo
tH iH
00 tH
tH
00 o o i^;
a-. CO ui
01 1-1
O O O O O C O Oi 00 C. O O O O t-- :c i.t
1—1 1 ,H .—I ,-H 1—< i-H
o o o c
00 ir: 00 '-'^
|£
..s>
'S 4j
C3-- «-
a > c3
Sow
= ll
ME §
S X o
5 °>
CD
8.S
>>
I-l
5
.a
3
_(0 4-
c3
o
-tit
C
R 05
be <u
1—
1
CO
CO
00 0
CI
0 0
<N*
'3 _
73 ?. a fc.S
>.
CQ
.2 . o.S
•so Q ^
«r£te '..2 =^
Si: M"
o
^ S -2 a c ~
3 £ t. c« S H
rH a
« 3
I. o
S a c3
4> O 02
O Oh
o <^t>
000 00
O O rH
o
I
h
H
. .2 t
- o .
- tn
= £ a
O 2 03
o O (-
rfi C W
a w
oo5
©CO 00 0 0"*0 10 0 CO
coooo 0 c: X 0
iH i-H 1-i
irsrH com 0 0 0 Cl c- 0
01 CO CO Cl CI CI
CI CI
cf cl
=4-1
c
5
'oo
00 Jj <l)
tn
^ O
^3
.5s
0 ~
.-J
Ct/2
01 ~ c; 5 :7i ci
CO O o ^ CI
as a> 01
o ^ CO
rHO:oo
" S
0 G ,
2
p?
•S-S
3
CO 0..2 >-. g a
•9 g c 5 3 S • S
i-2
§3
S = •
O (-1
^ 3
—
'1!
=3 «5
2 -S
s a
2; « 0) c <D "2
>H t- f-s
—
f4 Pi 5b
te ^- S — c-i c
g J" ce c« S^o-S c!^
«2
<
O
\ 2.2 .S 53 --2 2 5
O £C ^ S'^fO'^^ S
eg ^ ^
O W Efil O w O !^ !Zi
OOOOO'-'O'^OO
oooooooooo
OODOOOOOt^OOO
^- ^'itf ^- « « «
O O O '3
CO o o
C: CI (-1
CC IC
0)
^ t_ 'w o o o
a) r -= S ^ <M
W ^
Ph .> S -^3 O C-l
O C» *5 ^ o2 ^
^ K*! O O ^ "-I ^
O S S —I IM 00
O O , " lO CO lO
r-^ 00 ^ —I Ctj Crt
05
o
Oh
§
6?
o o iH
o cr. o 05
(M I-
o -h
CO t -
=4?
<
G2
t—
1
C5
,
i-l
oo" -
I
CO
O h
, 5 S
MOO
G O)
te ^ 2
o cs a
oH-
III
u o =S
3 2l8
O CO
^ I—
<
CO CO
C
D
J2
g vT
Q S
§1
O CO
160 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Fkbruary, 1920.
Bisson and Eva C. have accepted an invitation to come to
England next month for a few weeks' stay, and a small
Committee consisting of Mrs. Salter, Mr. Feilding and Mr,
Whately Smith has been appointed to make the necessary
arrangements for the investigation, and to invite the assist-
ance of such sub-committees of doctors and others as may
seem advisable for the purpose.
Part 77 of Proceedings was published in July 1919, and
Part 78, dated December 1919, has appeared this month.
The number of Meetings for the reading of papers etc.
held during the year was five.
On January 31st, at a Private Meeting of Members and
Associates, Mrs. Salter read a paper on " A Report on the
Trance-phenomena of Mrs. Leonard."
On April 11th, at a General Meeting, Lord Rayleigh gave
hie Presidential Address.
On July 4th, at a General Meeting, Dr. C. G. Jung of
Zurich gave an address on " The Psychological Foundations
of the Belief in Spirits."
On November 7th, at a Private Meeting, extracts from
Mr. Hubert Wales' paper on " Some Experiments in Thought-
Transference without Conscious Agency," were read by Mrs.
Salter.
On December 9th, at a General Meeting, Papers commemora-
tive of Lord Rayleigh and Sir William Crookes were read by
Sir Oliver Lodge and Sir William Barrett respectively.
NOTICES.
A member of the Society is at present conducting some experi-
ments in dowsing for water in the neighbourhood of London.
Any Members or Associates who have had some definite ex-
perience apparently indicating that they possess a faculty for
dowsing, and who are willing to take part in these experiments,
are invited to communicate with the Secretary, at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W. 1, who will forward their letters to the
experimenter.
A group of experimenters have lately received by means of
various kinds of automatism a series of quotations which, it is
February, 1920. Case. 161
suggested, may form part of some cross-correspondences. If
any other persons have had similar results, they are invited
to communicate with the Norwegian Society for Psychical
Research, 22 Nordahl Brunsgade, Christiania, Norway.
CASE.
P. 292. Premonitory Dream.
The following case of an apparently prophetic dream was
first reported in Light, September 13, 1919 : the names and
addresses of those concerned are known to us, but by request
pseudonyms are used here.
It appeared from the statement in Light that Miss Jameson
(pseudonym) dreamt of her fiance's death a few days before
it occurred, when he was in apparently good health. In
reply to a letter from the Secretary asking for further details
and corroborative evidence, Miss Jameson wrote as follows :
[Received September 15, 1919.]
In answer to your letter of the 12th, I had the dream which
I wrote about on the 2nd [of August, 1919J, and told my mother
about it on the 4th, as I had thought it unlucky and did not
like to mention it before. My fiance and I spent the day
together on the 5th, and he was perfectly well seemingly—which
will prove to you that he appeared in perfect health—and on
the following day—the 6th, he died.
If there are any more details you would hke to know, I will
give them, but I would prefer, for private reasons, that my full
name should not appear in anything public. G. B. [.JamesonI.
To this letter Mrs. Jameson's signature was appended thus :
Certified correct. [Gwendoline B. Jameson.]
In reply to a further enquiry Miss Jameson wrote again
thus :
[Postmark, Seftemher 18, 1919.]
In answer to your letter of the 16th, I am afraid there is
little I can add about that dream. I have already mentioned
that I went to bed as usual on the 2nd [of August, 1919] (not
having eaten anything or thought of anything hkely to cause
a nightmare) and dreamt that I was beside a grave and some-
thing said in my head, " It is [Leonard]."" As the funeral party
162 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February, 1920.
advanced I noticed Mr. V. and Mr. L. (two of his greatest friends)
among the followers ; when the burial was over and as they
all moved away, I stumbled away from the grave and someone
took my arm. On turning round I found it was Mr. L. This
was my dream and it came true in every detail on the day
that [Leonard] was buried. I enclose my mother's account of
it. You ask if I have ever before had any psychic exj^erience,
I have had a few minor ones, but none which could be con-
sidered evidential. G. B. [Jameson].
With this letter was enclosed the following corroborative
statement from Mrs. Jameson :
My daughter told of her dream on the Monday [August 4,
1919], adding that she had felt first of all disinclined to, as
it seemed a very unlucky dream. She was rather nervous about
it, and told it to me in detail as in the account in Light. She
often dreams vividly, and I remember that some have come
true before, though I cannot recall exactly what they were.
[Gwendoline B. Jameson].
We then wrote to Miss Jameson to ask for a statement
concerning the cause of her fiance's death in order to establish
the point that there had been no reason to anticipate it.
We also asked for some press notice giving the date of the
death. In reply Miss Jameson wrote thus :
[Received September 25, 1919.]
I thank you for your letter of the 22nd. The first thing
necessary to complete the case I can tell you now. The verdict
of the cause of my fiance's death was " Angina Pectoris and
heart in a state of Fatty Degeneration." None of his friends,
nor myself, nor even [Leonard] himself had the slightest idea
that he had any disease of the heart, as, having always seemed
normal, he was not medically attended at any time. As for
the notice of his death, I am trying to obtain one through the
Press Cutting Association and will send it as soon as it arrives.
G. B. [Jameson.]
A report of Mr. T 's death appeared in one ol the daily
papers of August 8, 1919. We print the report below with a
few alterations to conceal the identity of Mr. T .
Afternoon visitors to the on Wednesday [August 6, 1919]
were shocked by the sudden death of [Mr. T .] [A certain
Pebbuary, 1920. Correspondence. 163
part of the entertainment] had just been completed, when [Mr.
T ]
collapsed in his chair and died of heart failure.
It will be seen from the above report of the case that at
the time of Miss Jameson's dream neither she nor any one
«lse had any conscious knowledge that Mr. T 's death
was likely to occur soon. At the same time the physical
conditions which caused his death were actually in existence
at the time of the dream, and therefore we cannot exclude
the possibility that some knowledge of them might have been
derived either by unconscious observation, or telepathically
from Mr. T himself, who may have had some subcon-
scious knowledge of his physical state.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
A SUGGESTED NEW TEST FOR EVIDENCE OF SURVIVAL.
Madam,—It has occurred to me that experiments on the lines
indicated below might provide evidence of survival of a type some-
what different from those with which we are familiar.
The evidence hitherto studied by the Society has depended on
the display by the ostensible communicator of knowledge, ability
or initiative beyond the powers of the automatists concerned,
but characteristic of the communicator as known in life. The
obstacle in the way of accepting such evidence as conclusive lies
in the impossibility of assigning precise superior limits to the
scope of telepathy and subliminal mental activity, and some test is
•clearly needed which shall be as uniquely characteristic of the com-
municator's mind as a thumb-print, or a set of anthropometrical
measurements, would be of his body.
I suggest that a close approximation to this might be obtained
by an adaptation of the " word-association " test sometimes used
by psychoanalysts to discover the suppressed cause of nervous
disorders. In this method a list of, say, one hundred words is
Tead out and the patient is asked to reply to each with whatever
word or idea first comes into his mind. These reactions are stated
to be characteristic of the patient, and, in the light of psycho-
analytic experience, they frequently afford a clue to the cause of
the trouble.
For our purposes the procedure would be somewhat as follows :
—
A list of standard words would be prepared and persons willing
to participate in the test would be asked to " react " to them
in the manner described above. The reactions would be recorded
and preserved, but should be known only to the person tested.
164 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. February, 1920.
The same test would be applied to the automatists who work
under the supervision of the Society.
If, after death, one of the tested persons purported to com-
municate, he would be asked to react afresh to the same list of
words and these new reactions would be compared with those
given by him before his death.
If the two sets of reactions were found to be (o) identical or
unmistakably similar, and (6) different from those of the automa-
tist, the evidence of identity would, I think, be very strong.
The argument would be as follows :
" The way in which ideas are associated together in a person's
mind is a function of that person's individual experience.
But the experience of every individual is unique.
Therefore the association of ideas in every mind is unique and
thus characteristic of that mind."
There are, of course, certain complications which are obviously
likely to arise.
It would be necessary to ascertain, for example, by means of
separate experiments, to what extent reactions vary from time to
time, and it might prove desirable to obtain a new set of reactions
for every person concerned at fairly frequent intervals.
It might also happen that the automatist would not record the
actual reaction of the communicator to the test word, but that of
his or her own subliminal mind to that actual reaction-word as
stimulus. But even so an exhaustive study of the automatists'
associations might enable us to trace the connection.
Mrs. Salter has suggested to me that it would be interesting
to apply this test to («) an automatist in the normal state and
(b) to " controls " of the trance state. Quite apart from the
question of survival as such this might well throw much light on
the psychology of trance personalities and should certainly be tried.
I should very much like to receive criticisms of this plan and
suggestions as to the best means of carrying out the experiments.
In particular I should value the ojiinions of psychologists as
to the " uniqueness of such reactions and as to the kind of
words which would be m.ost suitable for use as tests.
W. Whately Smith.
ERRATUM.
We regret that in the last number of the Journal, p. 143, a
line of type was accidentally omitted. Our correspondent, Mr. J.
Arthur Findlay, had referred correctly to o})tics as " things relating
to the science of seeing."
No. CCCLXIII.—Vol. XIX. .. March, 1920.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On TUESDAY, APRIL i^tli, 1920, at 5.30 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" Some Impressions of a New Associate
"
WILL BE READ BY
., Mr. G. E. WRIGHT.
IT IS HOPED THAT A DISCUSSION WILL FOLLOW.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing tlieir names at tlie door.
A
166 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Maiich, 1920.
A GEOUP OF PSYCHICAL EXPERIENCES.
Editorial Note.
The following report of her various psychical experiences was
originally sent by Miss Alice MacLellan, of Bridgeport, Conn.,
U.S.A., to Sir Oliver Lodge, and forwarded by him to the
Society. In response to enquiries from tis Miss MacLellan
obtained corroborative evidence in several cases. In some cases
it has not been possible for one reason and another to obtain any
detailed corroboration, but Miss MacLellon's statement is perfectly
clear, and the accuracy of her recollection is attested by the corrobo-
ration obtained of other incidents. It seemed best, therefore, to print
Miss MacLellan s statement as it originally reached us {with a
few slight omissions), only breaking up the incidents in order
to insert corroborative statements.
With regard to the last incident in the series, it is evident
that this dream made a very great impression on Miss MacLellan,
and an impression of this sort is not to be dismissed as valueless
merely because it is subjective and incommunicable to others.
At the same titne, it is to be observed that prophecies concerning
such an event as the end of the recent war have not the same
evidential value as, for instance, the definite and speedily fulfilled
prophecy of a railway accident included in Miss MacLellan'
s
narrative (see below, p. 170). Innumerable prophecies were
made concerning the end of the war, more or less correct or
incorrect, as the case might be ; Miss MacLellan's prophetic
impression is noticeable not so much for its correctness as for
the vividness with which it was stamped upon her mind.
We are much indebted to Miss MacLellan for the trouble
she has taken in obtaining all possible corroboration. The names
and addresses of all those from, ivhom corroborative statements have
been obtained have been given to us, but are withheld here at
Miss MacLellan s request.
STATEMENT BY MISS MACLELLAN.
From time to time during my life there have come to me
strange dreams which foretold future events ; there have
been dreams in which I gained various items of information
concerning trifling personal matters ; and in these last few
March, 1920. A Growp of Psychicol Experiences. 167
years the dreams have shown me another world, akin to this
one, peopled by those whom we caU " dead." The Scotch
are said to be gifted with " second sight," and it may be
that from some long dead Scotch forebear I may have inherited
that trait in a slight degree. It has seemed best to me to
write down some of these experiences, especially since a few
of them have an apparent value for students of pyschical
research, and there are a few items which are perhaps of an
unusual value.
I.
The first dream I recall, as one from which any definite
information was gained, came to me about twenty years ago.
In the early summer of the year preceding I had lost a
small scarf-pin, attractive in its design and valued for the
sake of the giver, but of trifling value. At the time of its
loss there was no recollection in my mind of when or where
it had last been worn, and after a careful search of the house
the pin was given up as lost. The next year (in February,
if my recollection of the matter is correct) I awoke one
morning with a dream still very vividly in my mind. In
the dream I had gone up into our attic, pushed aside a
trimk, and found the missing scarf-pin lodged in a crevice
in the floor. On awaking that morning my first act was
to don a dressing-gown and go hastily to the attic. When
the trunk in question was pushed aside, there lay my missing
pin just as in the dream ! I had no conscious knowledge of
any such spot in the flooring, nor did I remember having
worn the pin up in the attic. The only explanation which
suggests itself to me is that my sub-conscious mind knew
when and where the pin was dropped, and after a lapse of
months succeeded in communicating with my conscious mind
during sleep. This is the only theory I have had.
II.
In January of 1899, it happened that I was in Toledo,
Ohio, the guest of an old school friend and former neighbour.
My visit was a most happy one, and her friends showed me
a charming hospitality, so that it seemed to me that I had
168 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. March, 1020.
rarely been so delightfully entertained. One morning some-
thing waked me very early and the impression came to me
that I must leave Toledo at once. Daylight found me puzzling
over the kindest way to cut short my visit, and to break
several engagements which had been made for me. It was
a rather difficult matter, and my hostess felt rather aggrieved
that I permitted a trifling cold to upset our plans. She
. had a small and very informal card-party planned for the
next week, the invitations for which were to be given that
day. But for some reason I did not then understand it
was easier for me to be firm in my decision than to agree
to stay longer. For two days it was impossible to get a
reservation on the train east, but on Friday she accompanied
me to the station and saw me started east again. The
moment the train pulled out of the city, the weight which
had oppressed me began to be lifted. I felt that I had
left some unknown care behind me, and that my decision
to return east had been wise and just.
Early Sunday morning her father died very suddenly, and
his funeral was held the very day she had selected for her
card-party !
This experience made me beheve that somewhere there is
knowledge of coming events, and that such knowledge can
be communicated. In this instance only the fact that it
was necessary for me to go home (and thereby to end our
planning for the following week) was sent out to me.
III.
In 1906, while I was in Boston with one of my most intimate
friends, she sat for a photograph at the studio of one of
the fashionable Back Bay photographers whose work we
greatly admired. This was the last week in June. A few
days later the proofs were sent her and she selected two
of them, ordering a number of photographs like each of the
two proofs. The last week in July I met her and inquired
if she had received her pictures yet, saying that I had hoped
to have one given me on my birthday, early in August.
The night of July 31st there came a dream in which she
called at our house with a package in her hand and said
Makch, 1920. A Group of Psychical Experiences. 169
that tlie pictures had arrived but that the photographer
had finished up the wrong negatives. As we sat at dinner
on August 1st (my birthday), she came to call on me with
a package of photographs, and said exactly what she had
said in my dream of the previous night.
It is still a puzzle to us to know how the mistake could
have occurred. The proofs were clearly marked, and the
photographer acknowledged his error when his attention was
called to the matter, and sent the other photographs later.
But how did I see the mistake ? The pictures were in the
mail at the time of my dream. Did I see them in the mail
during my sleep, or was some one at the office of the photo-
grapher cognizant of the error and was this communicated
to me ? Or was it one of those cases where the uatm'al doubt
concerning orders, which may or may not be executed cor-
rectly, dominated my mind '?
Or is it true that everything
which happens on this plane of life is but a reflection of that
which has already occurred on the astral plane and in my
dream did I catch a glimpse of something on the astral plane ?
Corroborative Statement.
While in Boston during the last week of June, 1906, I had a
sitting with a photographer there who took a number of pictures
of me. The proofs were sent to me at Bridgeport and I showed
them to iVIiss Ahce MacLellan who had been with me at the
photographer's in Boston. From these proofs I selected two and
sent them back to Boston, ordering pictures finished up Uke both
of these two particular proofs. About the end of July I met
Miss MacLellan and she asked if the photographs had yet been
received, adding that she had hoped to have one for her birthday
on August 1st. On the day of August 1st the photographs
arrived, but on opening the package I found that through some
error the photographer had finished up the photographs from one
proof correctly, while he had finished up some photographs from
another proof which I did not like and he had omitted to send
any photographs from the second proof I had selected.
But I took the package up to show Miss MacLellan that night.
MTien she saw me she exclaimed that she had dreamed the pre\dous
night that I came to see her with some photographs and had said
to her that the photographer had finished up the wrong pictures.
170 Jotirnal of Society for Psychical Research. Mahch, 1920.
This was absolutely true, and it was the particular proof which
she preferred that had been omitted. The photographs were in
the mail at the time she had this dream, as they had been mailed
from Boston on July 31st, 1906. And when she told me of her
dream I told her that that was exactly what the photographer
had done.
I returned the photographs to Boston, the photographer apolo-
gized for the error, and he sent the right photographs later.
[Signed] G. H. L.
IV.
In July, 1911, came what was at that time the most amazing
experience I had had of this sort. On July 8th, 1911, my
only sister was married. Two of her college friends were
among the wedding guests and they remained over Sunday.
Sunday night [July 9, 1911] I dreamed of a terrible railroad
disaster. I could see the bodies lying on the ground after
being lifted from the wreck, and distinctly saw some one
taken to the Galen Hospital for treatment. At that time
the Galen Hospital was a small private hospital, and emergency
cases were usually taken to one of the large general hospitals,
or to the Emergency Hospital of the city.
On coming down to breakfast my first thought was to
look at the morning paper and see if there had been such
a wreck. No such wreck was reported, but my brain was
too absorbed in my dream to permit of my being tactful,
and I remarked that I had dreamed of a terrible wreck.
As our two guests were to leave on a mid-morning train,
and as my sister was away on her honeymoon, the topic of
railroad disasters was hardly a happy one, and was speedily
laid aside. When the noon papers were out and there was
still no mention of such a catastrophe, it convinced me that
what I had seen in my dream was yet to happen. By this
time the matter had gotten on to my nerves quite thoroughly,
and without doubt I had gotten on to the nerves of my
family. That night, the Federal Express (the night express
between Boston and Washington, or rather in this instance
running from Washington to Boston) went off the viaduct
at Bridgeport, and the wreck was horrible. And, when the
first " Extra " appeared, it announced that one of the first
Makch, 1920. A Group of Psychical Experiences. 171
three victims taken from the wreckage was sent to the Galen
Hospital.
It has always seemed to me as if in my dream I saw
this wreck happen on the astral plane (if that is the proper
phrase) before it happened on this physical plane. But like
all such speculations on my part, it is all pure surmise. I
do not understand the source of the dream, and am only
sure of the dream and its horrible realization. [For corrobora-
tion see below.]
V.
In the fall of 1912 (October, I thinh) we had a letter from
my brother who lives in Buffalo, N.Y., saying that he would
leave for Boston Sunday night, and after transacting his
business in Boston would stop ofi and see us on his way
to New York, probably on Tuesday. We heard nothing more
from him, and by Thursday concluded that an urgent wire
must have recalled him to Buffalo. On Friday afternoon
(I think it was Friday) I suddenly remarked, " There's some-
thing terrible happening, and it's so near I can feel it." In
an hour or so the newsboys were calling the Extras of the
Westport wreck, another railroad wreck at Westport a few
miles away from Bridgeport. It was impressed on me that
my brother was very close to that wreck, and I could feel
his presence there. My mother reassured me that he must
have been out of New England earlier in the week, and
together we kept my intuition about the matter from my
father's knowledge. Several days later we heard from my
ibrother, and as he did not mention the matter I was very
much puzzled. I was absolutely sure that he had been near
the wreck.
Several months later he was at home with us for a day,
and suddenly remarked :
" By the way, you people never
knew how near I came to being in that Westport wreck."
Immediately I exclaimed, " I told them that you were in
that Westport wreck and they wouldn't believe me !
"
He explained that business had detained him in Boston
longer than he had expected, and he had then been obliged
to go -to Hartford, Conn. He had hurried into the Hartford
station that afternoon to take the ill-fated train just in time
to see it vanishing down the track. Very much annoyed, he
172 Jov/mal of Society for Psychical Research, bubch, 1920.
had waited for the next train, mentally berating himself for
his tardiness. When the next New York train came in he
started for New York. At New Haven he heard the news
of the wreck at Westport, and mentally thanked the Providence
which kept him from being on the wrecked train. At West-
port the track was still blocked by the burning debris and
his train was switched past on another track. So that he
was in reality very near the wreck.
Two corroborative statements have been obtained concerninff
these incidents. First the dates and circumstances of the accidents,
including the particidar circumstance that one of the j^ersons
injured in the first accident- was treated at the Galen Hospital,
are attested by the Librarian of the Bridgeport Public Library,
thus :
In the files of the New York Tribune in this library, the issue
of July 12, 1911, contains a complete account of the Federal
express which occurred in the early hours of July 11, 1911. The
engine and seven cars leaped from the viaduct into the roadway
beneath and on to the lawn of the adjacent Horan property.
There were twelve people killed outright, and forty-eight people
injured.
In the list of the injured, the first person mentioned is Joseph
L. Elkridge of Maryland, and the paper states that his injuries
were treated at the Galen Hospital.
The files also show that on October 4, 1912, the express from
Boston, via Hartford, was wrecked near Westport. Ten cars
were wrecked ; seven persons killed, and thirty persons injured.
[Signed] H. S. , Librarian.
Mr. F., a friend to whom. Miss MacLellan spoke of these
two impressions before their verification, has made the follo^ving
corroborative statement
:
October 6, 1919.
I remember very well seeing Miss MacLellan the day before the
Federal Express wreck, and that she seemed quite agitated about
a dream she had had the previous night, in which she had seen
a terrible wreck. This was on Monday, July 10th, 1911. Early
the next morning the Federal Express went of? the track at
Bridgeport, and the wreck was very terrible.
The recollection of this incident is very clear because that
Tuesday I took my wife and Miss MacLellan out in my automo-
March, 1920. A Group of Fsijclileal Ecqyeriences. 173
bile to view the wreck. The three of lis climbed up on the via-
duct and stood looking down at the wrecked engine and Pullman
sleeping cars which were thrown clear of the viaduct and part of
the wreck lay in a roadway beneath and over on an adjoining
lawn.
I also remember hearing her insist after the Westport wreck
that her brother was near that \\Teck, and my endeavours to
reassure her, by telling her that so long as she heard nothing
about him, or of any man resembling him, she should cease
worrying about it, for all the victims were carefully listed. She
seemed certain that he was near the wreck and I knew that she
had been greatly depressed the afternoon in which the wreck
occurred. Several months later it was quite interesting to me to
learn of his missing the wrecked train and of his coming along
down past the wreckage on a later train.
[Signed] T. I. F.
VI.
This same year of 1915 there came to me an experience
of another sort which surprised me. The study of palmistry
has always entertained me, for while it seems very absurd
on the surface the results are sometimes amazing. There
seems to be as much indication of a person's character in
the lines of the hand as in the expression of the face. In
that book of Lombroso's, The Feviale Offender, you will recall
that the author lays great stress on certain marks, on defects
or exaggerations in the heads and faces of the pictured sub-
jects. While to speak of palmistry is to introduce a subject
which is associated by most people with charlatanry, yet from
the marks in the hand a careful observer may learn much.
Cheiro, the famous palmist, has written so much of interest
in his book on the subject, and included plates of the hands
of such people as Mrs. Besant, Mme. Melba, the late WiUiam
T. Stead, the Et. Hon. W. E. Gladstone, and many others
equally well known, that I have greatly enjoyed studying it.
And, being inveigled into it for charity, I have found it
quite possible to read hands. Whether all the things I see
in people's hands come to mxe from the Lines, or whether
there is some unconscious mind-reading about it. I do not
know. It amazed me to find that a sign known to palmists
174 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. March, 1920.
as the " Mystic Cross " which appears in both the hands of
Mrs. Besant and Mr. Stead is also in my own hand. But
the following experience has robbed it of any amusement or
pleasure for me.
In 1915, being in New York one Saturday at an opera
matinee, I went out to the suburbs to spend Saturday night
and Sunday with some of my most intimate and dearest
friends. The husband has been my friend since our babyhood,
our mothers having been close friends since girlhood. His
wife and I have been warm friends ever since we met, and
their home has always been a very happy rooftree under
which I have spent many pleasant days. After dinner that
night, we began a game of dummy bridge, three-handed.
We had been playing for some time when I suddenly remarked
to N., who was dealing, " You've a mighty interesting hand."
He and I have been such chums since childhood that he
commenced to chafE me, and to assure me that he knew
me as a palmist to be a genuine fakir, etc. But his wife
wanted to have me read his hand, and finally (after I had
read hers) he gave me his hand to read, although he did
not cease his ridicule of the whole subject of palmistry. When
he gave me his hand across the card-table he looked at me
a bit queerly. I know now that it must have been beseech-
ingly, but I did not guess it then.
After looking at it a few moments I was utterly puzzled,
and said, " Why, I can't read your hand." He pulled it away
very quickly, but his wife wanted to know why it seemed
unreadable. Finally I said, " It's not like you at all ! Why,
you've got the hand of a crook." At this he pretended to
be terribly aggrieved, but I explained that probably there
were certain httle lines which by their relative positions
counterbalanced the tendency of the main lines, and that
that was what puzzled me.
He teased me unmercifully about my palmistry, and carried
the matter oi5 with a great deal of ridicule, varying his teasing
by pretending to be terribly insulted. It was a puzzle to me
how such a man as I had always known him to be could
have such a hand.
Last year he committed suicide. This was attributed to
overwork. His death was a great grief to me. A few days
March, 1920. A Gro^ip of Psychical Experiences. 175
after his deatli I saw him in my dreams, and he seemed
to be attempting to explain something to me. He seemed
very anxious and worried lest I should condemn him. I
woke myself out of a sound sleep exclaiming, " It's all right,
—
It's all right !
" A few days later I was horrified to learn
that he committed suicide when he could no longer conceal
his embezzlements from estates of which he was trustee, and
that at the time I read his palm in 1915 he was carrying
poison in his pocket every day so if he were apprehended
he might commit suicide at once.
Did I see into his mind, or did I read it in his hand ?
I have not yet gotten over the shock of his death.
VII.
In the spring of 1918, at Easter-time, there came a dream
in which I seemed to be talking with a former acquaintance
of mine. We had met but a few times about ten years
previously. Her home for a number of years was in the
city of New York, and I had once been a guest at dinner
and over-night at her apartment. She had also dined with
me at the hotel where I was stopping. For years I had
heard nothing of her beyond that about ten years ago she
went to Paris as the representative of an American business
house. She was an extremely clever woman, and had attracted
me greatly. For two or three days I seemed to be haunted
by her memory, although unable to understand why she
should come to my mind so persistently. A few days later
the New York papers printed the news of her death. She
and her secretary were killed in the church of St. Gervais
on Good Friday when the Boches shelled Paris with their
long-range gun.
VIII.
These later years have brought to me a kind of dream
which is quite unlike any other variety of dream in my
memory. I frequently find myself in a beautiful unknown
country. It seems to be a world very much hke this one,
only much more beautiful. The light is always very brilliant
and the atmosphere has a quality very different from that
in which I hve. There seems to be a flood of the most golden
17 (J Journal of Society for Psychical Research, biakch, 1920.
yellow sunshine over everything ; the sea and sky have the
gorgeous colouring of the Southern seas and skies ; there
are beautiful trees and flowers to be seen, but never a faded
flower nor a withered leaf. And all the people whom I meet
in this dream country are the people whom we call " dead."
They talk to me and seem very much like themselves. These
dreams come to me at different intervals of time ; there seems
to be no regularity about their coming.
The most important message which has ever come to me
came at the beginning of the year 1918, either one of the
last days of 1917 or among the earliest days of 1918, and
therefore ante-dates these last two experiences. But it has
seemed wisest to me to put it at the end rather than in
its chronological order.
In this dream I found myself once more in this beautiful
country where the dead live. In the easy manner of such
happenings in this other world I was soon engaged in con-
versation with the most delightful man I have ever seen.
He was an elderly man, of about medium height, though
he may have seemed shorter than was actually the fact
because he was a trifle heavily built for his height. He was
a man of very great dignity, and combined with this was a
most delightful simplicity of manner and the greatest personal
charm. When he spoke it was with the assurance of a man
whose opinions must of necessity carry weight. It is quite
impossible for me to express in words his wonderful personality,
but I have never seen so altogether charming and perfect
manners before nor since. Dignity and assurance without the
faintest trace of arrogance or hauteur ; the appearance of an
intense interest in the afi"airs of this world ; and a supreme
kindliness ; these were the "
strongly accented characteristics
which made a most overwhelming impression upon me.
His first remark which I recall was this :
" England has
been going through a very terrible time."
To this my reply was that it was a very terrible time for
all the world.
In this he immediately acquiesced, adding, " But the end
is very much nearer than you think."
On my expressing the hope that the prophecy would prove
to be true, he replied, " It is tn;e."
March, 1920. A Group of Psychical Experiences. 117
Continuing the conversation lie said that there would come
some news favourable to the AUies in a comparatively short
time ; that not long after there would be a surprising happen-
ing ; and that then the end would come at once. He added,
" The end will come so suddenly as to be amazing !
"
Despite the doleful predictions as to the length of the
struggle with which w^e Americans (and nearly every one
else) had been somewhat depressed in spirit, I believed him
absolutely. He seemed to be so wise, to have such a tremen-
dous affection for England and her Allies, and to be so certain
of the truth of his statement, that I was convinced. Then
it seemed to me that I should like to know the identity of
the man with whom I was talking. So, a little shyly and
a trifle abashed by my own temerity in asking the question,
I said, " I really should very much like to know who you
are !
"
The smile with which he received this remark was the
most radiant and charming smile imaginable as he quietly
said, with just a glint of amusement in his eyes, " I suppose
that you would call me '
the late King Edward.'
"
^ :fc iji *
On awaking in the morning, this dream was so vividly
before me that every detail of it seemed real. I was con-
vinced that in some inexplicable way the message had come
from the Beyond, that for a few moments it had been my
privilege to see through the veil which separates the two
states of being. The tremendous import of the dream amazed
me, but never for a moment was there a doubt of the truth
of the statement about the ending of the Great War.
It seemed to me that this message was of such importance
as to warrant establishing its receipt beyond any doubt.
Therefore I took pains to tell of my dream to a few friends
who could vouch for the fact that such a dream was told
to them months before the ending of the Great War. To
others I merely stated my opinion that the war would end
in 1918. The opposition which this view met was extreme.
From all sources of information came the word that the war
would continue for one, two, three, or even five years. And
to any and all who expressed any opinion of such long duration
ior the war, I said that the war would end very shortly,
178 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. March, 1920.
and left them to consider me a fool, a victim of delusion,
or a stupid sentimentalist who wanted the war to end and
therefore believed it would end. No amount of argument
changed my opinion nor my expression of that opinion. I
firmly believed (and believe to-day) that the message came
from the Beyond ; that those who dwell in that other world-
have prior knowledge of events in this world.
Corroborative Statements.
September 5, 1919.
One evening in March, 1918, Miss Alice MacLellan who lives"
across the street from us, was spending part of an evening with
us, and we were discussing the Great War in its various aspects.
Bridgeport has been a munition- making centre for years, and that
fact has made the war a particular and vital interest to many of its
citizens, for the problem of housing and caring for the vast
number of workers who have flocked here during the war has
been difficult of solution. It is a patriotic city and the citizens
of native and foreign birth have worked together to raise money
for the Liberty Loans, the Red Cross, and the various war
activities. All of this made up a part of our talk, and we were
putting into words something of the widespread desire for the
ending of the conflict, when she asked if we would like to hear of
a dream she had some time before, foretelling the end of the war.
She then told us of a dream she had in which she seemed to be
in another world, and that she had had a talk with a man there
who told her that the war was much nearer its end than was
generally supposed. He told her that something surprising would
happen and that then the war would stop immediately, and added
that the end would come so suddenly as to be amazing. When she
asked him with whom she was speaking, he told her that he
supposed that she would call him " the late King Edward."
This was a somewhat unusual dream, but she seemed to have
confidence that it told the truth, and in opposition to the belief,
then general, that the war would continue for years' she insisted
that the war was nearing its end.
People here were imbued with the idea that it would take a
few years to finish the conflict, so that her dream was by no
means in accord with public opinion.
We thought it a very interesting and unusual dream, and when
March, 1920. A Group of Psychical Experiences. 179
the end did come very suddenly in November of the same year,
the dream seemed to have been a true prophecy.
[Signed] E. P. 0.
J. 0.
August 26, 1919.
One Sunday in the late summer of 1918, about the beginnings
of September, Miss Alice MacLellan was at our home and we were
talking over the outlook for the Allies, and the probable length
of time before the ending of the war. All opinions which had
come to us from supposedly authoritative sources expressed the
idea that the war would continue for a long time, perhaps years.
She was very decided in her expressed belief that the war would
be finished in the autumn of 1918, and that, despite all advices
from military and other- sources, the war was nearly over. Finally
she asked if we would be interested in a dream of hers, and, on
our expressing a desire to hear it, told us that she had had a
dream at the beginning of 1918 in which she seemed to be in
another world and talking with a very interesting elderly man
who told her that England had been going through a terrible
time, but that the war was nearly over. He said that something
very surprising would happen, and that then the end would come
at once, and come so suddenly as to be amazing. She asked him
who he was, and he replied that he supposed she would call him
the late King Edward.
This prophecy seemed to be quite preposterous in the light of
what we were being told relative to military affairs.
Miss MacLellan seemed very confident that her dream was a true
prophecy, and relating it as she did it impressed itself on our
minds.
One other detail :
—Dr. F had been waiting a call to service
for some time, and she told him that he would not be in the
service very long, and he did not report for duty until the day
after the armistice was signed.
[Signed] E. G. F.
H. W. F.
The following general corroboration of the above incidents has
been sent to us by Miss MacLellan's father :
July 12, 1919.
I have known of every occurrence in the accompanying state-
ment at the time of its happening. In relation to the dream in
which the ending of the Great War was foretold to her, she told
180 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. march, 1920
me of this dream the next day, and from that time on she never
faltered in her belief nor in the expression of that belief that the
war was near its end. Reports came to us from time to time
that the war would be of long duration. Some came from military
and Red Cross sources, but to everyone she expressed the opinion
that the war would be over in 1918. I know of one case where
she had a little talk about the war with a well-known lawyer
here. She told him that the war would be over in the autumn.
{This was in August, 1918.) He said that it would run from
three to five years longer. In November he told her that she
was either a good prophet or an excellent guesser.
E. A. MacLellan.
CORRESPONDENCE.
NOMENCLATURE.
To the Editor of the Journal op the S.P.R.
Madam,—If " Psychics " is the word that will be accepted,
then psychics let it be. And let us forswear the word " Spirit-
ualism," except for those who use it as the designation for a
religion. " Spiritism " might be left as a term of abuse : it
seems generally thus used ; and it has that sort of sound.
'"
Psychism " might then be used for the practice, and " Psychics
"
strictly for the science. One man may study psychics, another
may believe in psychism.
I am afraid I for one cannot agree with Myers' suggestion of
automatist " or " sensitive " for the horrid word " medium."
He gave us " telepathy " and some other admirable words ;
but
he was not always so successful
—" subliminal self," for instance,
was not happy. We cannot easily find a better word than
undermind " for that, in English; and we need an English
word for so important a part of us.
May I venture to suggest instead of " medium," the perfectly
clear, good, and intelligible word transmitter ? Or, better still,
to give it a more personal form, a new word, " transmittor."
Another possible word would be " transmittary," Avhich might be
used of one particular form of transmittorship. " Automatist
"
might then be reserved for those who do automatic Avriting.
Would not that be a great gain ? The matter is one of quite
serious importance at the present time. I do not think we shall
get the public to give sane attention to the whole subject until
we get rid of bogey-words, and adopt a scientific terminology that
begs no questions.
Would not the Council of the S.P.R. give a few hours to this ?
Percy Dearmee.
Nos. CCCLXIV-V.—Vol. XIX. April-May, 1920.
-
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On TUESDA Y, JUNE \st, 1920, at 4
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" A Discussion of Cases of '
Phantasms of the Living'
which have appeared in the Journal,'"
Mrs. henry SIDGWICK,
WILL BE READ BY
Mrs. W. H. SALTER.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on sigfiifig their tiames at the door.
182 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Aphil-May, 1920.
NEW MEMBERS.
Aundn, Marquis de, Palazzo di Spagna, Rome.
Busk, Mrs., 6 Wadham Gardens, London, N.W. 3.
Davis, Mrs., 46 Sussex Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W. 2.
Kennion, T. Alfred, The Canadian Bank of Commerce, Mexico
City.
Librarian, Iowa State Library, Des Moines, Iowa, U.S.A.
Neville, Lady, Banstead Place, Banstead, Surrey.
Prideaux-Brune, H., 21 Micheldever Road, Lee, London, S.E. 12.
Rajagopaliengar, R. V., Royampet, Tiruvadi P.O., Tanjore Dt.,
Madras Presidency, India.
Slight, Leonard, Ch. Gr., R.N., 66 Wadham Road, North End,
Portsmouth.
Westray, Mrs., 25 Cavendish Road West, St. John's Wood, London,
N.W. 8.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 170th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, March 4th, 1920, at 4 p.m. ;
The Kt. Hon. Gerald W. Balfour in the chair. There
were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Hon. Everard
Feilding, Sir Lawrence Jones, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St.
G. L. Fox Pitt, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mr. Sydney C. Scott,
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J. WooUey ;
also, Mrs.
Salter, Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were
read and signed as correct.
The Minutes of the Annual General Meeting, as printed in
the Journal for February, 1920, were presented and taken
as read.
Ten new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
Dr. L. P. Jacks, Professor Gilbert Murray, and Dr. F. C. S.
Schiller were elected Vice-Presidents of the Society.
Aphil-Mat, 1920. A Note on a Series of Sittings. 183
FUKTHEE DONATIONS TOWARDS THE INCREASED
COST OF PRINTING.
T A 11-
J. Albree - - - -
Oct
10 0
Mrs. Cnas. rSaker _j 0 0
Mrs. Carpenter - - - - 0 10 0
J. Mostyn Clarke - 0 10 6
Mrs. Devenish - - - - 1 0 0
Mrs. Franks (annual) - 1 1 0
Edward Grnbb - - 2 2 0
Mrs. Salter - 25 0 0
Miss S. E. Thomas - - 1 0 0
The. Society is also much indebted to all those Associates who
have become Members in consequence of reading the Report
printed in the Journal for February last.
A NOTE ON " A SERIES OF SITTINGS WITH
MRS. OSBORNE LEONARD."
By Miss M. Radclyffe-Hall.
Regarding the recent paper written by myself and (Una)
Lady Troubridge (see Proceedings, Part LXXVIIL, Vol. XXX.),
after some consideration we decided to present a copy of
the Proceedings in question to Mrs. Leonard, the medium
through whom all the evidence recorded in our paper was
obtained.
It seemed almost childish to deprive Mrs. Leonard of the
pleasure which we knew she would feel on receiving our
permission to read the evidence in question, since she had
told us that many of her sitters were talking about the
paper at some length, one of them at least having offered
to lend her the Proceedings. Again, a fairly full description
of the evidence has recently appeared in Light, and been
seen by her. In any case she must be taken to have read
the paper once it has appeared in print, so that for the
purpose of all future A. V. B. evidence, everything that is
on record in the paper will need to be discounted.
It may, we think, be of some interest to those who have
184 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apkil-May, 1920.
read our paper, if we comment briefly upon the waking
Mrs. Leonard's impression of her trance speaking in this
instance. There are three points in the evidence which she,
in the normal state, has remarked upon to us.
One point in particular appears to have impressed her,
because she feels that it is unusual. She tells us that when
reading the paper, she was conscioiis of a feeling of complete
detachment, that she felt that the trance utterances therein
set forth could not have been made by her. She tells us
that try as she would, she could not feel that the paper had
anything to do with her personally, and that moreover she
felt herself to be an entire stranger to the purporting com-
municator, A. V. B. She states that nothing she read seemed
capable of stirring the faintest chord of memory in her.
This surprises Mrs. Leonard, because we gather that it is
not invariably the case. When she has read other recent
publications concerned with deceased persons who have pur-
ported to communicate through her, she has apparently felt
that she knew the personalities, and that what she was reading
was vaguely familiar. I gather that although she has almost
complete amnesia of all that occurs during her trance, the
amnesia is not always proof against a direct stimulus to
memory, such as would be afliorded by a clear record, read
by her in the normal state, of what she has said and done
when in trance. Several of these recent records referred
to have been available to Mrs. Leonard, so that she is able
to form a judgment on this point. I myself know that
Mrs. Leonard has told me in the past that if she allows herself
to become quiescent or drowsy directly after a sitting, frag-
ments of phrases and detached names will float across *her
mind, phrases and names for which she can find no normal
association, and which, therefore, she has grown to associate
with something that has occurred during a sitting. She
has told me that subsequent to any sitting she purposely
avoids the quiescent and drowsy condition which appears to
be productive of this fragmentary memory. We have come
to the conclusion, however, that to all intents and purposes
the amnesia is practically complete, unless she permits the
conditions above mentioned, or applies the direct stimulus
to her memory of reading her own trance utterances, though
Apeil-Mat, 1920. A Note on a Series of Sittings. 185
even when the three conditions above referred to are present,
I gather that she cannot remember things in any detail
It is strange that the sense of familiarity which she has
noticed when reading other publications about her trance
utterances, should be so completely absent in this case, for,
not only have Lady Troubridge and I, we think, had a greater
number of regular sittings than any other sitters with Mrs. Leonard^
but all our sittings have been wholly or partially concerned
with the communicator A. V. B. Moreover, since our
paper on Leonard evidence was completed, the A. V. B.
Control, spoken of in the paper, has greatly developed,
increasing in interest and characteristic features.
The next point in the evidence upon which Mrs. Leonard
comments, will be found on page 412 of Proceedings, Vol. XXX.
By reference to the above page it will be seen that we
commented upon the fact that Feda corrected her original
pronunciation of the word " Cruz." After pronouncing the
place in question ''
Cruz," she corrected her pronunciation
to " Cruth," the latter being the Spanish pronunciation, and
incidentally the pronunciation that would have been used
by the purporting communicator A. V. B., who was acquainted
with Spanish, but not the pronunciation that is habitually
used by English people, especially if they are untravelled.
In fact, we thought at the time that this point was of some
interest. But Mrs. Leonard now states that she once tried
to learn Spanish, and that she retains a sufficient memory
of her efforts in that direction to be aware that the name
in question although spelt " Cruz," should be pronounced
as " Cruth." She says that she would have told me this
had I asked her, and knowing her as well as I do, I am
convinced that she would have done so. I admit, however,
that it never occurred to either Lady Troubridge or me to
raise this point with Mrs. Leonard, and had it done so, I
think that we should have thought it inadvisable to mention
to the waking Mrs. Leonard a name closely connected with
evidence then being obtained.
Finally, Mrs. Leonard comments upon a curious mention
of an " Ark " which occurs on pages 390-391. This mention
of an " Ark " by A. V. B. had no meaning for us at the
time, nor have we been able to trace the reference since.
a2
186 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April-May, 1920.
We thought, however, that we had obtained a clue to
its possible source, through a conversation which we had
with the medium in 1917. Some remarks of Mrs. Leonard's
on that occasion led us to suppose that she liked house-boats,
and that in her opinion they provided an enjoyable form
of vacation, and we understood that her liking was based
on experience. This was the reason why we put forward
the hypothesis that the medium's memory of house-boats
had intruded itself at that point in the sitting when the
mysterious " Ark " was mentioned. Feda, in speaking of
this Ark, went on to say " Feda thinks like Noah had."
Certainly a house-boat is strongly suggestive of a Noah's
Ark. But Mrs. Leonard, having now read the paper, states
that we misunderstood her regarding her having ever spent
a vacation on a ^ottse-boat ; this she says she has never
done, though at one period of her life she spent much time
on a sailing boat. She tells us, however, that in the summer
of 1917, shortly before the conversation above mentioned,
she had, while house hunting, seen several advertisements
of house-boats, and that she and her husband had considered
the question of taking one that year, and this we think must
have been the source of the impression which she conveyed
to us. This question of her taking a house-boat did not,
however, arise until 1917, whereas the reference to the " Ark "
occurred in 1916. (See page 389.) So that we cannot suppose
that the house-boats of the advertisement influenced this
statement regarding an " Ark " which was made a year before
the advertisement in question was seen. In Mrs. Leonard's
opinion her mind was in no way responsible for that reference.
I have carefully questioned Mrs. Leonard regarding our
paper as a whole, asking her to put forward any further
remarks that she may wish to make, but she tells me that
beyond the three points which I have mentioned she finds
nothing to comment upon.
CASE.
P. 293. The Woodd Warnings.
In an article by F. W. H. Myers on The Subliminal Self
{Proc, SP.R., Vol. XL, p. 334 ff.) there appears (p. 538 ff.)
April-May, 1920. Case. 187
a report concerning tlie traditional warning received on various
occasions by members of the Woodd family ; this record
extends over a period of three centuries.
The earliest account appeared in Dr. Robert Plot's Natural
History of Oxfordshire (edited 1677), thus :
I must add also a Relation, as strange as it is true, of the
Family of one Captain Wood, late of Bampton, Oxfordshire,
now of Brise Norton, Captain in the late Wars for the King.
Some whereof before their death have had warning given them
by a certain knocking, either at the door without or on a table
or shelves within ; the number of streaks and distance between
them, and the place where, for the most part respecting the
circumstances of the person to dye, or their deaths themselves. . . .
It is subsequently explained that, according to tradition,
if the knock is heard within the house, it portends the death
of some immediate member of the family residing there ; if
it is outside, then the person to die is a relative or near
friend residitig elsewhere.
The article in Proceedings records seven occasions upon
which the warning appears to have been received. One
of these occurred in 1893 upon the occasion of the death of
Mr. C. H. L. Woodd. The warning was heard by two members
of the family, quite independently of each other, and one
of these two was Mr. Woodd's son, the Rev. T. B. Woodd.
It now appears that Mr. T. B. Woodd has heard the
warning once again. On October 30, 1919, he sent to the
Secretary, Miss Newton, the following account of his experience
:
On Monday, October 20th, 1919, at about 9.30 p.m., I was walking
upstairs and I heard a strange knocking outside the house
(S. John's Vicarage, Fitzroy Square). I called my servant, Cyril
Cooke, and asked him whether he heard it and what it was.
He could not say. I said, " It is the Woodd knocking. Some
one is going to die." On Wednesday, Oct. 22nd, I was called
by telegram to see my cousin. Miss Katharine Isabella Basil
Woodd, as she was very ill, at her residence Zetland House,
Kensington. (I had written that very day inviting myself to
lunch on the following Saturday, not knowing she was unwell.)
She died at 7.30 next morning, Oct. 23rd. My servant reported
what I had said to my housekeeper, Lydia Wilkins. I did not
188 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April-May, 1920.
remember it again imtil Saturday, the 25th. CjTil Cooke had
never heard of the family superstition and rather laughingly
told my housekeeper I thought someone would die.
Tudor Basil-Woodd.
I certify the above is correct.
J. H. Cyril Cooke,
Lydia Wilkins.
In reply, Miss Newton wrote that we should like to have
independent accounts from the two servants, and should
like also to ask a few questions ; she suggested that she
should call and see Mr. Woodd. This she accordingly did
by appointment on November 21st, 1919, and we give below
her report of the interview :
On Friday morning, Nov. 21, 1919, I called ujoon Mr. Woodd,
and he told me that he had not heard the " warning " since
the occasion on which his father died in 1893 {Proc, S.P.R.,
Vol. XI. p. 540). As it was not clear from his account whether
his servant, Cyril Cooke, had heard the knocking, Mr. Woodd
kindly sent for him, and in reply to my questions, Cyril told me
that he heard the knocking, which seemed to him to be in the
next house, as if some one was knocking nails in the wall. The
knocks, he said, came in threes—and that Mr. Woodd said that
it was the Woodd warning, and some one would die. He had
not heard Mr. Woodd speak of hearing knockings before, or of
the " Woodd warning." He had told Mrs. Wilkins about it.
I asked Cyril to write a brief account of what he remembered
of the incident, and he went away and brought me the following
account, together with that of Mrs. Wilkins, about half an hour
after. Cyril Cooke looks about sixteen or seventeen. Mr. Woodd
told me he had not been long with him.
Mr. Woodd then sent for Mrs. Wilkins, who told me that she
had nearly forgotten about it, but she seemed sure that Cyril
Cooke had told her the following morning that Mr. Woodd had
said that some knockings he and Cyril had heard were the
" Woodd warning." Mrs. Wilkins knew of the " warning." She
went away to write her account, which is appended.
The two statements handed by Mr. Woodd's servants to
Miss Newton were as follows :
November 21, 1919.
At about eight o'clock on 20 Oct. I heard a strange knocking
Apeil-May, 1920. Case. 189
as I was going upstairs. Thinking it was some one in the next
house I said nothing of it. Then about an hour after, Mr.
Woodd called me up and asked me if I had heard the Woodd
knocking, and I said I had heard some knocking, but could not
say what it was. [Signed] Cyril Cooke.
November 21, 1919.
On 21st Oct. Cyril Cooke told me that he had heard some-
one knocking in the next house. Then about an hour after he
told me that Mr. Woodd said the knocking he heard was the
Woodd knocking, a sign that someone in the Woodd Family was
going to die. [Signed] Lydia Wilkins.
It will be seen that according to Cyril Cooke's account
given above, he heard the knocking at about 8 p.m., whereas
Mr. Woodd heard it at about 9.30 p.m. It is not clear
whether Cyril Cooke heard any knocking at the time when
Mr. Woodd heard it.
In a further eflort to clear up this point Miss Newton
wrote to Mr. Woodd as follows :
2m November, 1919.
We feel that as one of the witnesses records the knockings
as having been heard at 8 o'clock and also an hour afterwards,
it would be an advantage to the case to have a further statement
on this point, as I note that in your account you do not describe
the. knockings nor say how long they lasted. Did you only hear
them when you went upstairs at 9.30 ? And, if so, were you
at home earlier in the evening ?
I am very sorry to trouble you again, but the confusion on
this point weakens the evidence. I Newton,
, . (Secretary).
In reply to the above letter Mr. Woodd wrote as follows :
November 27, 1919.
It is so hard to get a clear statement from people of this
kind. Cyril Cooke now says he first heard the knocks in the
study about '^6 o'clock and as he went upstairs they seemed
to follow him up. He is not clear, but thinks he heard them
again when I did at 9.30. T was certainly out at 6 . . . He now
thinks he didn't hear them when I did, and I think the last
time he heard them was 7.15. I dined at 7.30, and probably
came in at about 7.20.
190 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April-Mat, 1'J20.
I heard them only once, 9.30, and they did not continue for
more than a few seconds, I should say not more than 3
knocks in all. T. Basil-Woodd.
It will be apparent from the above statements that the
evidence given by Cyril Cooke is not to be relied upon. The
boy evidently became confused, and we cannot clearly ascertain
whether he heard any knocking at the time when it was
heard by Mr. Woodd, namely, about 9.30 p.m., or not. This
is unfortunate, since it prevents our getting any corroborative
evidence as to the nature and duration of the sounds heard,
and especially as to their objective character.
What, however, emerges clearly from the report is that
Mr. Woodd heard, or thought he heard, some knocking at
about 9.30 p.m. on October 20, 1919, and that he interpreted
the sounds at the time as the Woodd warning. This point
was adhered to by Cyril Cooke throughout, and is corroborated
by the statement of the housekeeper Lydia Wilkins. In
view of the fact that Mr. Woodd does not believe himself
to have heard the warning since the death of his father
in 1893 and that its traditional meaning was fulfilled a few
days later by the sudden death of Mr. Woodd's cousin, we
have put the case on record as a sequel to the earlier report
published in Proceedings.
A notice of Miss Woodd's death appeared in the Times
of October 27, 1919, thus :
Woodd.—On the 23rd Oct., at 14, Zetland House, Kensington,
Katharine Isabella Basil Woodd, youngest daughter of the
late Basil Thomas Woodd, D.L., J. P., of Conyngham Hall, York-
shire, sometime M.P. for Knaresborough. Funeral Service to-day
(Monday) at 10.30 a.m., S. John's Church, Fitzroy-square. Burial
at Westerham at 2 p.m.
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE SITTINGS OF MISS RADCLYFFE-HALL AND LADY
TROUBRIDGB WITH MRS. LEONARD.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—Those of us who are interested in the question of the
survival of personality after death—in my view, beyond all com-
parison the most momentous question that can occupy the human
Apeil-Mat, 1920. Correspondence. 191
mind—owe, I think, a debt of gratitude to Miss Radclyffe-Hall
and Lady Troubridge for the report which their careful and
laborious work has contributed to its study. I feel, however,
that—particularly at a time when the froth of popular credulity
and sentimentality appears to have risen unusually high—our
methods of inquiry cannot be too rigorous, our guard against
unwarranted assumption too watchful and unwearying ; and I will
therefore ask your permission to discuss briefly two points arising
out of the report.
Upon the first point I wrote privately to Miss Radclyfie-Hall
some time ago ; and in her reply she most kindly reviewed the
matter at length, but without removing my difficulty. It is con-
cerned with the incident of the dog Billy," particularly the
painful examination of his toes. The authors of the report seem
to regard this as a piece of excellent evidence for survival. They
do not indeed expressly say so, but the standpoint that they are
furnishing evidence for survival is, I think, implicit in the whole
report, and this particular incident is evidently felt to be of
exceptionally good evidential quality, because it was unknown to
anyone present at the sitting. I agree as to its importance, but
my reason for thinking it so is the reverse of theirs. How the
information involved was obtained by the medium is, in the present
connection, irrelevant ; the point of moment, in my view, is that
its receipt is not evidence for survival, because the facts were
unknown to anyone who had died. This important gap in the
chain of evidence seems to have been overlooked by the experi-
menters, or at least to have been imperfectly seized. So far from
affording evidence for survival, the incident seems to me to
constitute one of the most serious blows to that hypothesis to be
found- in the records of the Society. For it provides a concrete
instance of a correct statement of fact rejjresented as coming from
a discarnate mind, which demonstrably could not have emanated
from such a source.
My second criticism is concerned with professional mediumship
in general, and I use the present report only as a convenient
pretext for bringing it to the front. On the hypothesis of survival
and communication, I have never been able to understand the
apparent necessity, in connection with mediumistic phenomena,
for the presence of a " sitter "—that is, of a friend of the deceased
person or persons purporting to communicate, as distinguished from
the experimenter. The old analogy of a traveller, returning to
192 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April-May, 1920.
civilization after being lost for forty years in the wilds of the
world throws no light on the matter. Such a man would have
to give identifying details about himself to the first person he
met, who, in turn, would have to verify them : he would not
need his friends to be present before he could tell his story. In
common, no doubt, with most members of the Society, I have
deceased friends who were interested in the question of survival,
friends with whom I discussed it. If survival be a fact and
communication possible, I should expect them, like our returned
traveller, to send me a message with identifying particulars through
the first channel that presented itself, asking any one present to
forward it to me. I find the strain on probability becomes too
severe when I am asked to suppose that they would do that only
upon my going to a medium and paying a fee. Such a supposi-
tion would appear to require us to set up in the beyond some
sort of doorkeeper or " chucker-out " of spirits for whom friends
on this side had purchased no tickets of admission.
From the point of view of professional mediumship, however,
I can see the vital importance of having the occurrence of pheno-
mena dependent upon the personal attendance of a " sitter
"
or friend. It is the essential condition, indeed, the corner-stone
supporting the professional fabric : for it is manifest that people in
general would not pay for communications represented as coming
from strangers to them, however accurate the statements might
prove to be and however consequently valuable—indeed, in-
valuable—from the point of view of science. Looking at the
matter in that light, I feel disposed, for my part, to conjecture
that, not only this " sitter " convention, but perhaps also the
casting of phenomena in the form of communication from the
dead, have been subliminally developed in the interests of pro-
fessional mediumship.
It may be said in objection to this view that the " sitter
"
practice has obtained also with non-professional mediums, such
as Mrs. Thomson. I feel inclined to reply that professional
mediumship has so habituated us to it, that it has probably never
occurred to any one to make a serious effort to dispense with it.
Study of the two short records of Mrs. Thomson's case reveals
many incidents suggesting that with her a " sitter " was by no
means indispensable. I have a recollection, for instance, of
several references to Nelly having been found " chatting volubly
"
when no one at all was present. Nelly had not the pecuniary
Apbil-May, 1920. CorresjMndence. 193
interests of her primary in her charge : she could waste her sweet-
ness on the desert air, or to non-paying strangers, to her heart's
content.
The dispensableness of the sitter is even more evident in the
case of Mrs. Willett, through whom has been obtained what is,
in my view, the most impressive evidence for survival yet pre-
sented to the world. She has got rid, not only of the " sitter
"
fetish, with all the sentimentality and personal
'"'
slush that goes
with it, but also of the " control " fetish. One could hope,
indeed, that her mediumship might be taken as a model : but I
fear it is a hope most unlikely to be fulfilled. For the profes-
sional's subliminal—which, like all subliminals, no doubt, is its
primary's most obedient servant, unwear}angly intent upon serving
its desires and prejudices—is probably quite cute enough to know
that the public is not going to pay any guineas for an " Ear of
Dionysius."
Hubert Wales.
A REPLY TO MR. HUBERT WALES'S LETTER.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—While thanking Mr. Hubert Wales for the appreciative
manner in which he refers to our recent paper on Leonard
phenomena, both Lady Troubridge and I are anxious to avail
ourselves of the opportunity of replying to some of the points
raised in his letter ; the more so as he appears to be under a
misapprehension, due doubtless to some lack of lucidity in the
paper in question, but which indicates that we have in at least
one instance failed to convey to a reader a correct impression of
our attitude towards the phenomena.
We cordially agree with Mr. Wales that methods of enquiry
into psychical phenomena cannot be too rigorous, and in fact
would go beyond his demands and add that we consider that
they should invariably be so irrespective of popular credulity or
of any public opinion, and we welcome the discussion of any
aspect of any incident recorded by us that may have struck a
careful reader.
As regards Mr. Wales's comments on the incident of the dog
" Billy," however, we cannot see that he makes good his argument
that because the facts regarding certain of " Billy's " symptoms
were unknown to the purporting communicator, A. V. B., during
194 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apeil-Mat, 1920.
her lifetime, their reception as emanating from her surviving
inteUigence is evidence against her survival or that of any one
else.
If Mr. Wales is going to view with suspicion any signs of
a deceased intelligence having acquired new knowledge of any sort
subsequently to bodily death, I think he should be prepared to
tell us why, in his opinion, granted the possibility of survival
with personaUty sufficiently unimpaired to make communication
with and recognition by incarnate survivors possible, we should
assume a total cessation of the faculty of acquiring knowledge,
either from incarnate or from other discarnate sources.
Is Mr. Wales by any chance a disciple of a certain clerical
author who has perpetrated a harrowing work in which he tells
us that the departed, even those of the most meritorious nature,
lose instantaneously practically all the faculties which they enjoyed
on this earth, becoming aimless bits of spiritual thistledown, and
refraining perforce from any effort at communication with this
earth, a privilege monopolised entirely by those who accept the
assistance of the Devil and his angels ?
Personally we cannot see why, granted for the sake of argument
a surviving A. V. B., she should come to a full stop on leaving
this world, and if she retains any faculties at all, as we imder-
stand them, why not the faculty of obtaining information useful
to the work she has in hand, by telepathic or other means
which, for all we know to the contrary, may be available,
—
either from incarnate persons who do possess the requisite data,
or in some cases from other discarnate intelligences.
In the case of the dog " Billy," we are not in a position
to say for certain that no one had died in possession of the
facts regarding his ailments—possibly some one known to the
veterinary surgeon may have heard his case discussed, and sub-
sequently died prior to the mention of " Billy " at Mrs. Leonard's
;
in any case, we cannot see, if A. V. B. survives at all, why her
difficulty in ascertaining the facts she required for the getting up
of her case should have been any greater than ours in verifying
them. It must be remembered that we have every reason to
think that she did know, prior to her death, that " Billy " had
existed, and she may have known that he had spent his latter
hfe at Boscombe. She may therefore, hypothetically, have known
where to go for her facts. Or, supposing she had lacked even
that knowledge, why should she not have found in Lady Trou-
Apbil-May, 1920. Correspondence. 195
bridge's mind the facts known to the latter concerning " Billy,"
and learnt from her of Boscombe as a likely source of further
information ? We cannot prove that she did either of these
things, or that she did neither the one nor the other ; and we
cannot prove that Mrs. Leonard, Feda, or any one else incarnate
obtained telepathically facts which we are satisfied were unknown
to the medium normally. Therefore, in our opinion, the " Billy
"
incident, Hke so many others, neither proves nor disproves any-
thing, except that facts do get communicated from one intelUgence
to another in a way which we cannot as yet regulate or under-
stand, and that brings us back (after many days, so to speak)
to the misapprehension under which we believe Mr. "Wales to be
labouring, namely, that in our paper we intended to convey
that among the evidence presented for consideration we considered
the " Billy " incident as pre-eminently good evidence of survival.
In our paper we intended to make it clear that we offered no
opinion as to the source or explanation of the phenomena dealt
with, beyond a statement that in many instances we considered
the explanation of normal knowledge on the part of the medium
as quite insufficient ;
but, had we been asked to express our
opinion as to what particular incident, if any, among those dealt
with, was particularly suggestive of survival, we should both
imhesitatingly have selected the incident of " Daisy's Second
Father," in preference not only to the " Billy " incident, but to any
other phenomena recorded in the paper, with the exception
perhaps of certain characteristic mannerisms observed by us in the
so-called " Personal Control."
The latter part of Mr. Wales's letter does not really concern
us personally, but since he has set the ball rolling, we feel in-
clined to give it a push gratuitously. Mr. Wales complains that
a " sitter " personally known to the purporting communicators
appears an indispensable adjunct of mediumistic phenomena. He
suggests that the discarnate, if they can communicate at all,
should dispense with the presence of a receiving intelligence
known to them and either thrust their evidence upon any stranger
who has ears to hear, or possibly, like Nelly, " chat volubly
"
to an empty room.
We cannot see what would be gained by either of these exped-
ients. Hypothetically, were A. V. B., for instance, to give to
strangers the evidence which she has purported to give to us,
the most careful records made by strangers would not treat
196 Jountal of Society for Psychical Research. April-May, 1920.
adequately innumerable apparently trifling incidents, turns of
phrase, pronunciation of words, etc., which, heard and recorded
by any one familiar with the supposed communicator, add to,
or detract from, as the case may be, the value of the evidence
received. Were she, on the other hand, to babble to the empty
air, we should be inclined to regard it much as we should have
regarded a hke proceeding during her life-time—as a symptom
of mental derangement or imminent nervous breakdown !
Seriously, however, much as we appreciate the value of medium-
ship such as that of Mrs. Willett, we think that Mr. Wales must
admit that each type may have its advantages, and it is only
fair, to Mrs. Leonard for instance, to state firstly that, although
a professional medium, she is not by any means backward in
affording the same advantages to sitters whose means do not
enable them to pay her as to those who can pay her fee, and,
secondly, that so far from Feda voluntarily absenting herself
until she hears the chink of a guinea, or to be up-to-date, the
rustle of a Bradbury, she, like all the " Controls " or secondary
personalities whom I have met in person or in Uterature, asks
no better than to monopolise the largest possible share of her
medium's daily hfe, and has only been relegated to her routine
" sitting " appearances by stern rej)ressive efforts on the part of
Mrs. Leonard.
Two more brief statements I will add : that the reception by a
sitter of evidence regarding, or purporting to come from persons
unknown to him is a frequent occurrence ; and lastly that, while
admitting the regrettable presence of much excessive sentimentaUty
in the communications purporting to take place between friends
or relations, received through many, especially through weak
mediums, we deny the existence of anything that could by the
most severe judge be termed sentimentality in Mrs. Leonard's
phenomena as known to us—unless, which we do not think, Mr.
Wales wishes to apply the term " personal slush " to all and
every personal expression of affection or interest received through
a medium as purporting to come from a communicator who
would have felt and expressed such affection and interest during
life.
Personally, we have never received through Mrs. Leonard's
mediumship, any expression of sentiment that we would have
considered " slush " had we been conversing with incarnate entities.
M. Radclyffe-Hall.
April-Mat, 1920. Correspondence. 197
•
" LIFE AFTER DEATH."
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—I have to offer a few corrections of Dr. Schiller's
statements in his review of our last Proceedings and of my book,
Life after Death.
Dr. Schiller has entirely mistaken the real significance of the
Lynn broker case, or " Case of Pictographic Phenomena," published
in the annual Proceedings. The thing that I emphasized was not
at all that he was mediumistic but that, whether mediumistic or
telepathic, his own memories were used for interpreting the
stimuli that came to him. I emphasized the fact, that it might
throw light on the place which the subconscious has in all
mediumistic work.
There was another point noticed, and it was that it clearly
illustrates how people select their evidence to prove their theories.
All that was reported represented it as telepathic ; in my own
experiments and those of a friend the record shows very clearly that
there were incidents which could at least be interpreted spiritistically
quite as well as telepathically. As a matter of fact, some of
them had the characteristics of spirit messages, rather than of
telepathy. It was that fact that led to the cross-reference
experiment. I was not able to carry on the cross-references as
thoroughly as I wished, but there was certainly enough to show
that there was no reason to believe that it was telepathic.
What Dr. Schiller says about my criticism of Professor James
has some force and I am not disposed to quarrel particularly
about it. I only wish to correct an error or two and any mis-
taken impression that others might have as a consequence of
Dr. Schiller's statement. Dr. Schiller seems to think I might
not have read Professor James's book on Immortality at all.
{1) I read the book twice. (2) I read portions of it several times
more to see if I could make out what Professor James meant
by some of his terms, and I never was able to find out from
anything he said, save from the illustrations. (3) I did not
construct my point of view from the mere use of the word
^"
transmission," but from the necessary meaning of the illus-
trations which he chose. I may be entirely wrong in my inter-
pretation of his meaning—if he had any, for my difficulty was
to find out whether he had any other meaning than the one
that I gave, and I was criticising the only thing that was
198 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apeil-May, 1920.
intelligible in it. Dr. Schiller's distinction between '
transmissive
'
and '
transitive '
I do not admit for a moment. They mean the
same thing save that one is active and the other passive ; or
one is the name of the facts and the other implies causal agency ;
but the phenomena are exactly the same.
Dr. Schiller's comment on my attitude toward idealism and
realism mistakes the argument. My argument with the idealist
was ad hominem, not ad rem. Before I could apply that method
to the realist I should have to convince him of the spiritistic
theory. The idealist has every reason to believe it, when the
realist may move toward materialism. I did not fall back on
realism, for I have nothing to do with either idealism or realism.
Nobody has ever made the terms very clear, especially idealism.
The difficulty always with Professor James was to determine
technically what he meant by his language on a crucial point.
As a popular writer he was clear enough, but the nioment he
touched on technical problems you never could be sure that his
language had the accepted meaning of history. It is quite
probable that if I could have found what the meaning of his
terms was my animadversions would have been very different.
But I must insist that the terms mean either what I said, or
they mean nothing.
James H. Hyslop.
[Note by the reviewer.] I believe Dr. Hyslop to be wrong on
all the points to which he takes exception in my review of his
book. But I refrain from demonstrating this because their interest
for members of the Society is too slight for me to make demands
u])on the valuable space of the Journal. I will only thank Dr.
Hyslop for stating plainly and in print what I have long believed
to be the real root of the trouble philosophy-professors have
with the thought of William James. He did not employ technical
jargon enough to be easily assimilated by the professional mind. But
this is hardly a condemnation of James.
F. C. S. Schiller.
THE REGISTERING OF SUB-CONSCIOUS IMPRESSIONS.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—1. In the Journal " Man," 1904, No. 115, in an article
by Mr. N. W. Thomas, I came across the following remarks
bearing out his suggestion that many of the witch-doctor's divina-
April-May, 1920. Correspondence. 199
tions are the result of the unconscious transference, from the
mind of the subject to his, of the answer sought. He was
engaged in studying some ancient Bushman paintings in a cave,
which had a projecting roof in the form of an isosceles or equi-
lateral triangle. While doing so his dogs discovered some hidden
skins, which he recognized as part of a collection of his own.
He suspected a postboy, but said nothing. Then, in view of
the disappearance of other articles at various times, he sent
for a witch doctor to smell out the culprit. Sixty natives were
collected including the culprit. Mr. Thomas stood behind to
avoid giving any indications of his thoughts unconsciously. He
simply told the man there was a thief and he wished to find
him. The witch-doctor went through the customary gesticulation,
chanting and drawing figures on the ground with his stick. After
a time he began drawing triangles (italics are mine), then boldly
declared that the stolen articles were hidden in a cave and
finally indicated the suspect as the thief. As it turned out,
the culprit afterwards confessed, and the suspect was found
innocent. The interest of the story is that the witch doctor
appeared to have read N.W.T.'s thought.
2. I take the following from Vol. VI. of Proceedings, S.P.R.,
p. 69. " Further Experiments in Hypnotic Lucidity or Clairvoyance,"
by Professor Charles Richet. The hypnotised subject is attempt-
ing to read cards sealed in opaque envelopes. " The manner in
which she arrived at the results was very curious—possibly very
instructive, if any real clue to the process can be found. She
held the envelope between her hands, and then drew on a sheet
of -pa-per a club, a heart, a diamond, a spade ; and she repeated
these drawings over and over again, sa}ang, "it is red, black,
club, heart, etc., but not making up her mind to a definite
choice till after a long period of uncertainty. (If the exact
number of pips was to be told) she counted on her fingers,
repeated the process again and again ad nauseam " (italics mine).
3. Again, Proceedings, Part LXXII. (1916), p. 59. Professor
Murray, in his Presidential Address, describes his thought-reading
experiments. " My daughter thought of Savonarola and the
people burning (things) in the Square. I first felt '
this is Italy '
;
then '
this is not modern '
: then hesitated, when accidentally a
small tarry bit of coal tumbled out of the fire. I smelt oil or
paint burning and so got the whole scene. It seems as though
here some subconscious impression, struggling up towards conscious-
200 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April Mat, 1920.
ness, caught hold of the burning coal as a means of getting
through " (Professor Murray apologizes for his anthropomorphic
tropes). Readers who have studied this very interesting number
of the Proceedings will remember several analogous cases in which
Professor Murray arrived at a correct result through the influence
of external accidents of this kind.
4. Part LVII. (1908) p. 227. In the cross-correspondence,
Angel," Mrs. VerralFs script was as follows :
" Write 3 words ;
something about their serried ranks—the avenging flame—troop
triumphant—no not quite that. Flaming swords—no (Latin
quotation) but wings or feathered wings come in somewhere,
and with twain he covered his face." . . . (two lines omitted)
"... long j^ointed rainbow wings. But you keep going round
the ideas (quotations from Milton and elsewhere follow), triumphant
hosts in long array, the wings point upwards behind the martial
hosts (hnes describing a picture omitted ; then finally) Leave it
to-day, his fiame clad messengers, that is better F.W.H.M. has
sent the message through at last !
"
5. Lastly, when we are trying to recollect a name, the usual
method we employ is to go over the letters of the alphabet in
the hoj^e that the appropriate letter will attract the word we
are groping for, and bring it into the light of the supraliminal.
Now, between 1, 2, 3 and 5 there are certain similarities of
process. There is the groping action or attitude in all of them.
But in 1, 2, and 3 there is groping after the unknown.
The associative principle seems to be at work in all four cases ;
we may, in fact, say in all five cases, because in 4 the subliminal
operator is clearly trying to switch on to the " angel " association
and bring that word or idea to light.
But the question we require to answer is this : was the witch
doctor already subUminally in possession of the '
cave ' idea and its
association with triangles, and were motor impulses being exerted
to make him draw a triangle ;
or, on the other hand, was the
•drawing of the triangle purely fortuitous, and was the effect of
it the same as that in Professor Murray's case : namely, to
relieve, as it were, the telepathic tension by producing the idea
just as crystals appear out of a strong solution of a salt under
appropriate conditions if a fragment of solid matter be dropped
into it. The scribbling with the stick looks like a casting about
as it were, for a rise ;
yet, the subliminal effort may be going
on at the same time. At any rate, in Professor Murray's case
April-May, 1920. Reviews. 201
the falling of the coal was purely chance. In No. 2 we are
faced with a number of difficulties. A great number of successes
were obtained by this subject, with cards, unknown to Professor
Richet, sealed up in envelopes, which he considered to be too
thick to have given any indications through hyperaesthesia.
The process the subject followed is interesting when we consider
it in relation with the other instances recorded above.
Here it is harder still to choose between the two motives which
promoted the subject to draw and reckon on her fingers—because
there is no source, in a living mind, from which the indication
required could have been received telepathically. Yet the same
method as in 1, and, we may say, 5, is employed.
Is the faculty of clairvoyance a real one ? The number of
cases where the possible influence of living minds is ruled out,
is extremely small ;
hardly sufficient to establish clairvoyance
even as a working hypothesis. Granting clairvoyance, however,
the modus operandi is intelligible. The reckoning and drawing
operations are, as it were, a deUcate test, calculated to give a
faint indicative reaction under appropriate conditions.
I feel that I have only scratched the surface of the interest
of these cases taken together, and that there is a good deal
more to be got out of them than I am competent to discover.
Ernest S. Thomas.
REVIEWS.
Spiritual Pluralism and Recent Philosophy. By C. A. Richardson,
M.A. Cambridge University Press, 1919. Pp. xxi, 335.
Metaphysics is an intellectual game of which some philosophers
are very fond. It is played with technical words as counters,
and its chief object is to '
explain '
them, all except one, in terms
of that one, by '
reflecting ' on them, or '
analysing ' their '
pre-
suppositions.' The one by which one '
explains,' must not be
reflected on or analysed—that is the first rule of the game—but
as any one may be chosen, the number of possible metaphysics
is theoretically infinite. Secondary rules are that the results
should be extracted by pure thought out of the bare terms with
no reference to experience, common-sense or science, clothed in
decent obscurity, and, at least, pseudo-theological. Hence no
apparatus or observations are required. As for the meanings of
the words involved, they are conventional and traditional, un-
related to experience, common-sense and science logically, though
202 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apeil-Mat, 1920.
chronologically an afl&liation to ancient superstitions may frequently
be traced in them. As a rule no two metaphysicians use them
in quite the same sense, and it is quite in order to change from
one sense to others, according to the needs of the argument,
in the course of the game. This practice also greatly increases
the variations of the game ; but it thereby comes rather to
resemble the royal game of croquet as played by Alice at the
court of Wonderland. It is no wonder, therefore, that meta-
physicians should get very much engrossed in their game. They
play on, the world forgetting by the world forgot, and are per-
fectly satisfied that nothing but metaphysics ultimately matters.
It is very difficult, therefore, to interest them in any scientific
or practical problem, and it is a great condescension when they
apply even one of their '
categories '
to one of them.
It shows a fine spirit, therefore, in a first-class metaphysician
from Cambridge, to risk his metaphysical prestige by joining
what he, somewhat optimistically, believes to be the '
rapidly
increasing '
comjjany of psychical researchers (p. 328). He devotes
the long concluding chapter of his book to a detailed consideration
of the compatibility of the various types of supernormal pheno-
mena which are the subjects of Psychical Research with his
metaphysical principles, and comes to the conclusion, in each
case, that they have adequate analogies with things he does
believe, and that there is no reason why they should not be
believed. This is not very positive support, perhaps, but as
much, no doubt, as could be expected. His inquiry is a little
overweighted with metaphysics, and his metaphysics are not
wholly free from the foibles mentioned above ; but he bears his
burden gallantly, and is evidently determined to come to grips
with the facts. If he is at all a young man, he would probably
be a valuable recruit, and would soon discover that in psychical
research it is necessary to question everything, to take nothing
for granted, to jettison metaphysical prejudices, and to entertain
with a widely open mind a multitude of the most tentative
and bizarre suggestions.
For instance, he might begin by allowing the facts of multiple
personality to call his attention to the somewhat serious vagueness
of his own metaphysical ultimates. His favourite category is
that of subject-object, and he is never weary of insisting that
the former is an indivisible unity, " so absolute as to render
meaningless a*ny attempt to split up his feelings and activities
"
(p. 152). He is also psychologically orthodox in dividing the
Apkil-May, 1920. Reviews. 203
'
self '
into the '
I '
(subject), and the '
Me ' (object). Accordingly
he holds that the '
dissociations,' e.g. of the '
Beauchamp '
family,
are affections of the '
Me,' except where there is evidence of
double consciousness, when " two distinct foci of attention must
be involved, and therefore two distinct .subjects "
(p. 309), which
is why he approves of the idea that '
Sally '
was a possessing
'
spirit '
(p. 282). But it has not apparently occurred to him
to put to this '
analysis '
the very searching question
—' In virtue
of what common nature or property are the " I " and the "Me "
identified and united together in the same " self " ?
'
It is clear
that for common-sense they are somehow one, and Mr. Richardson,
like every one else, assumes this too, when he is not on his
guard ;
^ yet neither psychology nor metaphysics ordinarily contrive
to justify this assumption. Psychology distinguishes the '
I
'
and the '
Me,' but is at a loss to describe their union. Meta-
physics attaches enormous importance to the distinction of subject
and object, but the abstract distinction does not get down to
the actual distinctions between, '
subjective ' and '
objective
'
that are made, and will not serve to discriminate between waking
and dreaming, f)erception of reality and hallucination. In parti-
cular, it plays Mr. Richardson false. He is (very sensibly) trying
to be a '
pluralist,' i.e. to believe that he is not alone in the
world. But he fails to observe that his '
subject of experience
'
category does not help him in the least to justify his pluralism.
For seeing that ex hypotliesi nothing is known about a subject
which can never be an object of knowledge, he has no right to
think that '
Subjects '
exist in the fluml. Indeed the '
principles
'
of simplicity and economy rather seem to require that no more
than one Subject should be postulated, and that the various
empirical personalities should all be conceived as dissociations
of a single Absolute Self. Which, of course, would knock out
pluralism, and lead to an extreme, though not very edifying,
form of monism.^ To justify a beUef in a plurality of '
subjects,'
the admitted plurality of empirical '
Mes '
must somehow be
made relevant to the apparently unapproachable '
/.' Or, in
other words, the common-sense belief in the unity of the self,
in spite of these psychological and metaphysical distinctions,
must be vindicated.
1 E.g. on p. 198, where what he saj's does not seem to apply either to the '
I ' or
to the '
Me,' but to the total '
self.'
*As I have argued in Studies in Humanism, eh. xi.
204 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April-May, 1920.
Now it is in overcoming these inadequate distinctions and
expanding the unduly narrow conceptions psychology and meta-
physics have formed of the Self, that Mr Richardson should
find the study of the abnormal '
dissociations '
useful, For though
superficially they exhibit normal personality dissolving into chaos,
they really attest a deeper, subliminal unity of the Self. For
it seems that the dissevered personalities can be reunited, and
even when they perish, they can pass their contents, or what
was valuable in them, on to their heirs. They contain therefore
the presage of a ^^sychology that is no longer classificatory but
active and therapeutic, which will mould the psychic material
into forms far more beautiful and regular than nature now attains.
It is true that technically all these '
dissociations '
woidd have
to be assigned to the '
Me,' but the very fact that outstanding
personalities like '
Sally Beauchamp '
or '
Sleeping Margaret
'
in the '
Doris Fischer '
Case require a distinct '
subject '
for their
accommodation, on Mr Richardson's own showing, only strengthens
the demand for a better conception of the Self that will represent
the '
I '
and the '
Me '
as really belonging together. For '
Sally
'
was far too intimately mixed up with the rest of the '
Beauchamp '
family to be seriously regarded as a separate entity. The proposal
so to regard her is only the desperate device of an artificial
theory. So is the dogma of the indivisible unity of the Soul,
which dates from a time when little was known about it, and
much of it, especially the unconscious depths, had to be left a
perfect and absolute blank, and so could be labelled '
subject,'
and regarded as disposed of by this metaphysical '
category.'
Now the indications are that the Soul has actually a highly complex
structure, probably quite as complicated as the body. What
unity it has is plainly functional and acquired, with difficulty
and imperfectly, or else resides so deep below the surface that
we can still only guess about its nature. Moreover, what is
true of the Self holds even more signally of the other topics of
Psychical Research. They all summon us to reconsider our
established beliefs ; all are too essentially experimental to form
a suitable playground for the a priori notions, out and dried
categories, and hard and fast distinctions of metaphysics.
F. C. S. Schiller.
Man-Making from out. of the Mists to beyond the Veil. By William
E. Benton, London. John M. Watkins. 1919.
This book is essentially a compilation of data having a human
interest, from the habitability of the planets to the price of
radium. The preface modestly indicates its character by declaring
that it is " merely for casual readers, and attempts nothing
worthy of the attention of the habitual student." Its attitude
towards Psychical Research is highly sympathetic, and it contains
(on pp. 161-2) a list of the Presidents of the Society from Henry
Sidgwick to Lord Rayleigh.
No. CCCLXVI.—Vol. XIX. June, 1920.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD AT THE HOUSE OF
THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF MEDICINE
(IN THE ROBERT BARNES HALL),
I WIMPOLE STREET, LONDON, W.
(ENTRANCE IN HENRIETTA STREET),
On MONDA Y, JUL Y i()th, 1920, at 5 p.m.,
Address by the President,
Dr. W. M'DOUGALL, F.R.S.
N.B.
—
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their ?tames
at tlie door. Visitors zvill be admitted on the production of an
invitation card signed by a Member or Associate. Each Member
or Associate is allowed to invite one friend.
206 Journal of Society for Psycldcal Research. June, 1920.
NEW MEMBEES.
Eled&l April 13, 192U.
Broad, C. D., Litt.D., 159 South Street, St. Andrews.
Clarke, Mrs., Jersey Avenue, Central Park, Vancouver, B.C.
Dingwall, E. J., 73 Corringham Road, Goldevs' Green, London,
X.W. 4.
Enthoven, Mrs. F. V., 33 Cambridge Square, London, W. 2.
Fernald, Mrs. 0. B., 4 Marlborougli Road, St. John's Wood, London,
N.W. 8.
Moncrieff, Captain M. M., Hemley, Woodbridge, Suffolk.
Parsons, Miss Llewellyn E., 99 Park Avenue, New York City,
U.S.A.
Rust, Dr. Montague, Boyndie, West Newport, Fife.
Sloss, Mrs., c/o Sunderland House, Curzon Street, London, VV. 1.
Tatham, A. T., Mountain Rise, Pietermaritzburg, Natal.
Wilkinson, Mrs., Cromwell House, Haresfield, nr. Stonehouse, Glos.
Elected June 1, 1920.
Baha, M., c/o Librairie Ikbal, 2 Sublime Porte, Constantinople.
Bjarnason, Professor A. H., Ph.D. (on behalf of the Liniversity of
Iceland), Hellusund 3, Reykjavik, Iceland.
Bryans, George, Court Royal, King's ClitTe, Brighton.
Carden, Dr. W. A., Lulworth, Eltham, Kent.
Cook, A. G. H., The Villa, Washington, Co. Durham.
De Grave, Miss D. M., Pioneer Club, Park Place, St. James's,
Jjondon, S.W. 1.
De Koven, Mrs. Anna F., 1025 Park Avenue, New York City,
U.S.A.
Hanson, G. F., Department of Pathology, LTniversity of Oxford.
Hendrix, J. A., Marion, Ala., U.S.A.
Hillman, Hugh H., White Cross, Banwell, Somerset.
Librarian, General Theological Seminary, Chelsea Sc^uare, New
York, U.S.A.
Mappillay, K. I. Varughese, Puthumadam, Ciieimithalay, Mave-
likaray, Travaucore, S. India.
•Jdne, 1920. Meetings of the Council. 207
Price, Harry, Royal Societies' Club, 63 St. James's Street, London,
S.W. 1.
Routledge, Mrs. Scoresby, 9 Cadogan Mansions, Sloan e Square,
London, S.W. 1.
Warburton, A. P., c/o A. Scott & Co., Bankers, Merchant Street,
Rangoon, Burma, India.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 171st Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Tuesday, April 13th, 1920, at 4.30
p.m. ; Dr. F. C. S. Schiller in the chair. There were also
present: Mr. W. W. Baggally, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr. J. G.
Piddington, Mr. W. H. Salter, and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick ; also
Mrs. Salter, Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Eleven new Members were elected. Their names and
addresses are given above.
Mr. W. Whately Smith was co-opted as a Member of the
Council for the year 1920.
The Monthly Account for March, 1920, was presented
and taken as read.
The 17 2nd Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Tuesday, June 1st, 1920, at
3 p.m. ; Sir Oliver Lodge in the chair. There were also
present: Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir W. F. Barrett, the Rev.
M. A. Bayfield, Sir George Beilby, Captain E. N. Bennett,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. W. H. Salter,
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mr. W. Whately Smith and Dr. V. J.
Woolley ; also Mrs. Salter, Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Fifteen new Members were elected. Their names and
addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for April and May were presented
and taken as read.
208 Journal of Society Psychical Research. June, 1920.
PEIVATE MEETINGS FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
The 62nd Private Meeting of the Society, for Members and
Associates only, was held in the Council Chamber at 20
Hanover Square, London, W., on Tuesday, April 13th, 1920,
at 5.30 p.m. ; Dr. F. C. S. Schiller in the chair.
Mr. G. E. Wright read a paper entitled " Some Impres-
sions of a New Associate," which, with the discussion that
followed, is printed below.
The 63rd Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber, at 20
Hanover Square, London, W., on Tuesday, June 1st, 1920,
at 4 p.m. : The Presidext in the chair.
Mrs. W. H. Salter read selections from a paper by Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick entitled " A Discussion of Cases of '
Phan-
tasms of the Living ' which have appeared in the Journal."
The full paper will be published, it is hoped, in the
Proceedings.
SOME IMPRESSIONS OF A NEW ASSOCIATE.
By G. E. Wright.
At the present moment it may perhaps serve a useful purpose
to place on record some of the impressions which the past
work of this Society has made on one whose introduction
thereto is but of recent date. Also to submit some suggestions
as to possible future activities in psychical research. The
impression which the structure of evidence as embodied in our
Proceedings makes on one who, so to say, meets it for the
first time in the aggregate, is necessarily different to that
produced on older members who have seen each component of
that structure during its erection.
In regard to suggestions for future research, I am well aware
that they are framed on a very imperfect knowledge of the
difficulties, and limitations, of psychical research ; but they will
at least afford an opportunity for others, better informed, to
re-state these difficulties and limitations, a re-statement which
at the present time would seem to be needed.
I will therefore endeavour briefly to set forth a few re-
June, j920. Some Impressions of a New Associate. 209
flections on some items of the past and present work of this
Society, and a few suggestions as to future activities.
In regard to past work the outstanding achievement is, of
course, the establishment of telepathy as a proved fact of
human experience. Although the powers and limits of the
telepathic faculty are far from being precisely defined, yet the
existence of " communication between human beings by other
means than through the recognized channels of the senses " is
not in doubt. Apart from the numerous comparatively recent
investigations—notably the instructive series of experiments
between Miss Miles and Miss Ramsden—the researches, and the
reasoning, contained in that great classic Phantasms of the
Living, are conclusive to anyone who investigates the subject
in an impartial spirit.
In regard to present requirements in telepathic research,
additional evidence is hardly a capital need as far as the mere
proof of the phenomenon is concerned.
The collection of well authenticated cases of spontaneous
telepathy, and the carrying out of investigations in the experi-
mental department thereof, are, however, of undoubted value
as contributing to a more precise knowledge of the modus
operandi of telepathic transmissions. A considerable number of
cases of the former class have been published in the Journal
from time to time. I would suggest that the time is now ripe
for the preparation of a synopsis of these cases, and its publica-
tion in the Proceedings.
Leaving, then, the subject of telepathy in which the results
already achieved, and the methods to be adopted in any
further research, are not doubtful, let us consider some other
phenomena which fall within the sphere of the activities of
this Society.
For present purposes these may roughly be grouped in two
divisions, though there is some little overlapping between the
two groups.
Firstly, we have the phenomena which hypothecate extra-
terrene influence—the great subject of communication with the
disembodied, to which most of the energies of our investigators
have been devoted. In this department the issue is clear. If
there is sufficient evidence—and many would say that our
records, especially those of the cross-correspondences, provide
210 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Junk, i920.
that evidence—that communications are received by the hand
or voice of sensitives which cannot be accounted for by nor-
mally acquired information, by telepathy inter vivos, or by
chance coincidence, we are, in our present state of knowledge,
driven to the conclusion that these communications must have
an extra-terrene origin.
The second, group of phenomena are those which, even if
their occurrence is a definitely proved fact, do not necessarily
require any extra-terrene hypothesis to explain them. They are
indeed popularly explained as being due to the operation of
extra-terrene intelligences, but this explanation is quite
gratuitous.
It is difficult to find a satisfactory generic term to cover all
these phenomena. They include a number of alleged mani-
festations popularly described as materializations, spirit-photo-
graphy, apports, levitations, the ])hysica,l phenomena of
spiritualism and so forth. All these terms are obviously
objectionable and question-begging. Perhaps they might be
termed parapsychic phenomena. This term does not commit us
to any exclusively psychical hypothesis, but allows us to admit
that they may be psycho-^yhysical or even only hyper-'phy&ic&l.
!^mile Boirac—who is one of those who incline to the
opinion that many of these phenomena may be ascribed to the
operation of some pseudo-radiant energy capable of being
emitted by certain persons—sensitives or somnambules—under
special conditions—trance or hypnosis—has introduced the term
biactinism to define the collection of phenomena in \'V'hich there
is, apparently, manifested action capable of being exercised on
animate beings, or on inanimate substances, other than by the
normal means of the senses and the muscles.
It would seem that F. W. H. Myers did not reject this
hypothesis, for we find him writing in Human Personality :
"I do not know how my will moves my arm, but I know
by experience that my will generally moves only my arm and
what my arm can touch. . . . Yet I can sometimes move
objects not in actual contact, as by melting them with the
heat or (in the dry air of Colorado) kindling them with the
electricity, which my fingers emit. I see no very definite limit
to this power. I do not know all the forms of energy which
my fingers might, under suitable training, emit."
June, 1920. Some Impressions of a New Associate. 211
I do not think that there has been, at least during the last
fifteen years, any systematic and coordinated attempt to
investigate these phenomena as far as this Society is concerned.
One species of them has, indeed, received some attention at
the hands of our investigators. In regard to the so-called
" physical " phenomena
—
psycho-dynamics, if the term may be
permitted—we have the admirable investigations carried out at
Naples in 1908 on the manifestations produced by Eusapia
Palladino which are recorded in Vol. XXIII. of the Pro-
ceedings. We have also the record of Miss Johnson's investi-
gations of the phenomena manifested by Mrs. Williams (see
Proc, Vol. XXI.). These, however, are all that the last ten
volumes of the Proceedings has to teach us on the subject.
The most cogent evidence for the reality of these phenomena
is found in a series of researches, with which this Society has
had no official connection, namely, Dr. Crawford's Belfast
experiments.
I venture to think that it is unfortunate that these experi-
ments, which appear to be of profound significance, should
have been carried out in entire independence of this Society.
In any other department of research we can hardly conceive
that an investigator who had produced results obviously of
novelty and value, would not bring his work before that
institution or society which was charged with the furtherance
of research in that particular subject. Coordination in psychical,
as in physical research is a prime need of the present day.
Amongst the impressions of a new Associate, one of the most
prominent is that there is a real and pressing need for the
systematic experimental investigation of the^e para-psychic
phenomena. An investigation which shall adopt the methods of
the laboratory, which shall be concerned with the production,
or attempted production, of the alleged phenomena, and not
merely confined to the criticism and analysis of evidence
elsewhere obtained.
It is, clearly, of no practical value to state an abstract
proposition of this sort. It must be translated into concrete
suggestions which shall both be within the available resources
of the Society in experimental material, and shall also not
conflict with, or compromise, other lines of investigation which
may be in progress.
212 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1920.
It is also necessary to suggest the sequence in whicli the
very varied phenomena comprised in this class should be
investigated.
Obviously we should select for our first research the pheno-
menon which has, on the one hand, the best attestation for
its occurrence, and which, on the other hand, is the simplest
and most amenable to strictly experimental treatment.
The combination of these desiderata is certainly maxi-
mum in the case of the so-called " spirit photography."
May I, in order to eliminate a prefix which is so objectionable
.to us, call it " psycho-photography " ? We may define it as
the impression on photographic plates, either of something not
apperceptible by the normal human senses, or of some normally
perceptible thing, in a manner not normally possible. The
definition is clumsy but will suffice for present purposes.
Those who are charged with the direction of the research
work of this Society have much on their hands. It is not
therefore to be expected that they should contemplate opening
up a new line of research unless there is a prima facie case
that it is likely to lead to profitable results. Our decision as
to whether any phenomenon is or is not worth investigating
must be determined by the respectability of the general testi-
mony for its occurrence. The testimony to the broad fact that
photographic plates, placed in proximity to a sensitive or
somnambule, receive impressions which they could not have
received by normal means, is at least respectable. Definite
pronouncements to this effect have been made by Ochorowitz,
Darget, De Rochas, Durville, Baraduc, Morselli, Hyslop, Car-
ington and other competent authorities. There is, therefore,
clearly a prima facie case for investigation.
In regard to simplicity and ease of observation psycho-
photography compares very favourably with other subjects of
psychic research.
We are not here dependent on personal observation for the
registration of the phenomenon. The photographic plate gives
the decision. The possibilities of mal-observation or hallucina-
tion are therefore definitely eliminated, an elimination which is
of the utmost scientific value. The application of conclusive
test conditions is also easy. All that is needed is a thorough
examination of the camera, slides, and plates, and continuous
June, 1920. Some Impressions of a Neio Associate. 213
supervision during exposure and development. It should be
easy to ensure conditions which would render substitution of
plates, double exposure, or deception of any kind, impossible.
The third point is the question of available experimental
material, and the possibility of interference with other lines of
research. I take these two questions together as they are, to
some extent, interdependent. If these para-psychic phenomena
were only to be produced through the agency of trance sensi-
tives it might, on this account, be said that their investigation
was undesirable. Our available material in the case of trance
sensitives is very limited. Those of them who have been
enlisted in the service of psychic research have, so to say, had
their subhminals specially trained for the reception of extra-
terrene communications. The subliminal of a trance sensitive
is a very delicately balanced mechanism. It might destroy its
value for the more important investigation—that of extra-
terrene communication—were suggestion applied to it with the
endeavour to lead to the production of para-psychic phenomena.
We have an object lesson, in the case of Mrs. Piper's trance
mediumship, of the ease with which the powers of a trance
sensitive can be destroyed.
Fortunately, in these investigations in biactinism we do not
need to employ trance sensitives. Somnambules are also
available as subjects, and of these there should be a sufficiency.
It may, however, be said that the fact that psycho-photo-
graphy and other para-psychic phenomena were proved to be
producible, without extra-terrene influence, by hypnotic subjects,
would not prove that they were so produced when manifested
by sensitives. 1 think, however, that there is general agree-
ment that the state of the subject under hypnosis, and of the
sensitive in trance, is psychically and physically the same.
Their common quality is disintegration of personality, the
achievement of a state in which the supraliminal is partially
inhibited, and the subliminal is partially freed, to function
independently of the censorship of the former. Whether this
state of disintegration is externally induced as in hypnosis
{Hetero-suggestion), or internally induced as in trance {Auto-
suggestion), would seem to make no difference to the resultant
state.
It is suggested that the first experiments in psycho-photo-
214 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1920.
graphy should follow the lines of those carried out by Dr.
Ochorowicz, Darget, Carrington and others, in which no camera
is employed. The plate is wrapped in opaque paper and held
in the hands or placed against the body of the subject. The
experimenter then suggests to the latter a word, subject or
diagram to be impressed on the plate. Alternatively the
subject is instructed to concentrate his attention on some
actual object before him, and to transfer his visualization of
it to the plate. This phenomenon—sometimes called " thought
photography "—which is specially well attested, can readily be
subjected to definite experimental proof.
The same method could be applied to test the claims of
those spiritualists who allege that their " spirit guides " can
impress a message or picture on a given plate in an unopened
packet. Prof. Henslow, for example, has given in his recent
book. Proofs of the Tmths of Spiritualism, a case where an
unopened packet of plates, securely sealed and marked for
identification, was sent by him to a certain spiritualist seance
and received back unopened with a psychograph impressed
on the third plate from the top of the packet. As Professor
Henslow gives the testimony of two independent persons,
that the packet had never been opened, the case can hardly
be summarily dismissed as one of fraud.
, No one would suggest that this Society should generally
embark on the investigation of spiritualist phenomena. It
is useless to investigate any claims to supernormal powers
where the claimants demand their own conditions before these
powers can be exhibited. Where, however, as in this case,
effective test conditions can be imposed by the investigators,
the subject would seem to be a proper and necessary one
for our investigation.
We will next consider experiments in which a camera is em-
ployed. The use of the camera to record psycho-dynamic
manifestations, and so-called materializations, is of course
familiar. Dr. Crawford has, apparently, obtained photographs
showing that, in the case of the levitations observed by him,
there is some sort of semi-material structure which raises,
and maintains in position, the object levitated. Photography
was also extensively used by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing in
his researches on the materialization phenomena exhibited by
June, 1920. Some Impressions of a Neio Associate. 215
" Eva C." which were discussed by Mrs. Salter in Vol. XXVII.
of the Proceedings. His elaborate monograph, Materializations-
PMnomene, of which an English translation is now in progress,
gives a very profuse photographic record of these manifestations.
The Kesearch Committee are to be congratulated on having
been able to arrange a series of sittings in this country with
this remarkable sensitive.
It is obvious that any investigator will apply the test of
the camera in such cases, wherever possible. My present
object is to suggest the use of the camera in a different
line of research. It is probably common knowledge that
most of the authorities above quoted who accept " thought
photography" as a fact, also tentatively accept the reality of
the " externalization of neuricity," in the case of sensitives
and somnambules where disintegration of personality has been,
carried to some length. This opinion is supported by so
reputable a psychologist as Emile Boirac.
These investigators state that, under certain conditions, a
subject can be caused to externalize something which can
be recorded photographically. If it could be definitely proved
that a sensitive can under certain conditions be caused to
exteriorize a " double " the implications of this proof would
be of profound importance. It would give us a naturalistic
explanation for many materialization phenomena, which are
so bafHing with regard to their investigation, and so repellent
to most of us owing to the dubious environments in which
they are often produced.
There is, therefore, a real need for the systematic photo-
graphic study of somnambules, in various degrees of hypnosis
and under various suggestions. This study could probably be
carried out with little difficulty.
I am aware that this hypothesis of externalization is mixed
up Avith much undesirable and unscientific speculation on
Occult and Theosophical lines. This admixture should, however,
hardly deter us from experiment; in view, both of the respect-
able testimony for the occurrence of the phenomenon, and also
the profoundly important conclusions which would result from
its verification.
There is one other new line of research to which laboratory
methods can be applied, and which, I think, demands attention.
216 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Junk, 1920.
It is not para-psychic, since the most reasonable explanation
for the alleged facts is the action of non-human intelligences.
This subject is the alleged " instrumental " communication with
those intelligences, communication where mechanism takes the
place of the human organism of the sensitive. It is stated by
two Dutch physicists, Drs. Matla and Zaalberg van Zelst, that,
as the result of prolonged experiment, they have received
messages from extra-terrene sources by means of apparatus.
This apparatus may roughly be described as foUows :
It consists of an electrical contact capable of being actuated
by minute pressures ;. a type wheel rotating at a very slow
speed, the usual paper tape passing under the wheel, and a
platen actuated by the contact key, through a relay, which
presses the paper against the type when the circuit is closed.
It is claimed that intelligible messages have been received
through this apparatus, the key being pressed by some external
force when the desired letters were in the position for printing.
The experimenters' description of their researches has not yet,
I believe, been translated into English. An interesting sum-
mary thereof is given in Dr. Carrington's recent book Modern
Psychical Phenomena.
Here is another opening for laboratory research which,
although it requires somewhat elaborate apparatus, should not
be beyond the experimental resources of this Society.
It may seem an impertinence to offer suggestions on experi-
mental technique to a research committee which has the advioe
of some of the most distinguished physicists of our time. I do
however venture to think that there is one matter—in con-
nection both with experiments in para-psychic phenomena and
also with sittings with sensitives—which needs attention. This
matter is the systematic record of the atmospheric conditions
during any experiment or sitting. The barometric pressure, the
temperature, and, above all, the hygrometric state of the
atmosphere, in the seance room, or extemporised laboratory,
should be recorded as a matter of routine. It is often said
that atmospheric conditions affect psychic manifestations. This
simple routine would soon verify or disprove this supposition.
I would also suggest that, where possible, experiments should
be made as to the effect of special artificial environments. The
effect of varying qualities of light should be tried, to see if
June, 1920. Some Impressions of a Neiv Associate. 217
there is any truth in the statement that light rich in red rays
is favourable, and light rich in violet rays unfavourable, to the
production of psychic phenomena.
Other matters to be tested are the effects of artificial desic-
cation, of ozonization, and of a condition of electric stress. In
many psychical investigations apparatus and mechanism cannot
help us. The more reason why we should use them in every
case where they may be, even remotely, of assistance. The
history of experimental research in Natural Science has, surely,
made abundantly clear the need for recording every condition
accessory to an experiment, even though at the time it may
seem to have no direct bearing on the result.
In regard to the investigation of sensitives purporting to
produce physical or materialization phenomena, and with special
reference to the forthcoming experiments with " Eva C,"
I would suggest the desirability of carrying out tests analogous
to the " control " experiments of the biologists.
In past discussions on the records of experiments with such
sensitives much time has been sj^ent in inconclusive arguments
as to whether the conditions of lighting, and of hand or foot
holding, or the positions of furniture, curtains, and the like
were such that the sensitive could possibly have produced the
phenomena exhibited by normal means.
Where, as in the case of the Naples experiments with
Eusapia Palladino, or those conducted by Dr. Von Schrenk-
Notzing with " Eva C."—and as no doubt will be the case in
those now to be conducted with the latter sensitive—an
accurate and detailed record is made of all these conditions, it
should be possible to reach relative certainty on this point by
repeating the experiments with a non-sensitive of the same sex
and approximately the same age and physique as the sensitive.
A professional illusionist would be a very suitable subject.
This understudy—or pseudo-sensitive—would be subjected to
precisely the same examination, tests, and restraints as those
applied to the real sensitive, and placed in the same room as
that in which the seances had taken place, with the same
furniture, the same conditions of lighting, and the same relative
positions of sensitive, furniture, curtains, etc. The understudy
would be informed as to the phenomena to be produced, and
instructed to effect them if she could.
218 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1920.
If it was found that although doing her best, so to say, to
cheat she could not produce some of the phenomena exhibited
by the real sensitive, our belief in the extra-normal origin of
those phenomena would be greatly strengthened.
In the absence of experiments of this kind, it is always
possible and easy for the sceptic to allege fraud m general,
without troubling himself to explain how any -particular pheno-
menon could be fraudulently produced.
The one and only safe rule in regard to evidence in this depart-
ment of psychic research is to accept no phenomenon as, even
potentially, extra-normal unless it is clear that the sensitive
could not possibly have produced it by trickery however much he
or she tried to do so.
This proposal must not be taken to imply any suspicion of
the bona fides of such sensitives. But in strict experimental
research bona fides can have no appreciable weight from the
evidential point of view.
So far for the suggestions which a new Associate ventures to
put forward. The impressions of that Associate are, however,
by no means confined to the feeling that certain extensions of
the experimental work of this Society require attention.
Far more cogent is the sense of appreciation, of respect, for
the work already done. The older members of this Society
—
specially those who have taken an active part in that work
—
cannot probably appreciate the effect which the " cmmdative
massiveness " of the evidence for communication with the dis-
embodied makes on one who meets it for the first time in the
aggregate.
In regard to " direct " communications one is impressed by.
the wisdom of the decision which was taken to study ex-
haustively one sensitive—Mrs. Piper. The value of continuous
observation, such as was devoted to the trance phenomena of
Mrs. Piper, is, from the evidential point of view, considerable.
Only by prolonged and continuous observation, and by the
accurate record of all that is said at sittings, can the boun-
daries of a sensitive's normal knowledge be defined. For this
reason the Piper records are of the utmost value, since we
have not to guess whether any piece of apparently super-
normal information may or may not have been normally
acquired. The records of past sittings, and the knowledge
June, 1920. Some Impressions of a Netu Associate. 219
which time brought to the experimenters as to Mrs. Piper's
normal sources of information, leave but small opening for
vmcertainty on this point. There is therefore no need for hesi-
tation in drawing the conclusion that there is a substantial
residuum of information in Mrs. Piper's trance communications
which could not have reached her by normal channels.
The telepathic hypothesis is, however, always at hand to
hinder our positive acceptance of the extra-terrene origin of
such communications.
If I may be pardoned a personal note, I would say the
records of direct communications, impressive though they are,
would not, for this reason, have sufhced to induce me to
accept extra-terrene communication as a proved fact. But the
evidence afforded by the cross-correspondences—and also by the
consecutive correspondences, if I may so describe such scripts as
that constituting the " Ear of Dionysius " case—has made it
very difficult, if not impossible, for me to resist the conclusion
that some of the communications received by the hand and
voice of sensitives have been originated by other than human
embodied intelligences.
It is agreed that by no means can the telepathic hypothesis
be strained to explain the complex multiple cross-correspon-
dences. Their evidential value must, then, stand or fall on the
correctness of the interpretations which our investigators have
given to the scripts of which they are conij^osed. If we found
that any critics had produced equally plausible interpretations
which changed sense into nonsense, concordance into confusion,
our confidence in the cross-correspondences as revealing the
operation of extra-terrene intelligence would be rudely shaken.
We do not, however, find this. During the sufficiently long
period that these records have been before the public we do
not find that the still not inconsiderable number of men of
science who reject any super-normal explanation, have ever
endeavoured to demolish the evidence in the only way in
which it can be demolished, namely, by showing that the
interpretations of the scripts given by our investigators are
wrong or at least doubtful. Our confidence in the evidential
value of the cross-correspondences is not a little strengthened
by the fact that our opponents have, almost entirely, failed to
apply to them any reasoned criticism.
220 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Junk, 1920.
Finally, there is one last impression whicli may be mentioned.
It was argued some time ago that there is much decadence in
the literary quality of scientific publications ; that our scientists
of to-day compare unfavourably in this particular with those
of the last generation. The accusation is not unimportant.
Ease of style and clarity of expression are needed by the
scientific publicist as well as by the man of letters.
In this matter our Society is indeed fortunate. The literary
quality of the papers which compose our Proceedings is, I
venture to think, exceptionally high. For example, to make
clear and interesting the analyses of cross-correspondences is a
difficult task, but it has been successfully accomplished, notably
in Vol. XXII., and in the various papers by our past and
present research officers. The late Mrs. Verrall's analysis of her
own script, which fills Vol. XX., is also an outstanding example
of an obscure subject made clear by careful treatment. In
regard to other matters it can be confidently said that the
impression which the scripts constituting The Ear of Dionysius
have made—not only on ourselves, but on many outside this
Society—is largely due to the lucid manner in which the scripts
were explained and annotated by the author of that paper.
While for clearness of exposition and convenience of arrangement
that monument of industry. Vol. XXVIII. , is noteworthy.
May we not ascribe this quality, rare in scientific publica-
tions, to the influence of one who was in his time perhaps one
of the great masters of English prose ; one who hesitated not to
devote his exceptional gifts to a then discredited study. A study
the transcendent possibilities of which he foresaw when he wrote :
" It may be that for some generations to come the truest
faith will lie in the patient attempt to unravel from confused
phenomena some trace of the supernal world—to find thus at
last '
the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things
not seen.'
"
A discussion then followed, of which an abstract is given below.
Kbport op the Discussion.^
Dr. Schiller said he was sure everyone would agree with
him that the Society were very fortunate to have| secured
^ This report gives only the substance of what was said ; it is not verbatim.
June, 1920. Some Impressions of a Netv Associate. 221
a rising recruit who was capable of bringing before them liis
views with so much practical energy and in so scientific a
spirit, and, perhaps he might add, with such robust optimism.
Mr. Wright had pointed out that it was extraordinary
that the Society had not undertaken any research into the
phenomena of Miss Golligher, but it was not the fault of the
Society that this research was not undertaken. In the year
1918 Sir OUver Lodge and he himself were ready and anxious
to go over to Belfast, but on several occasions they were
put off, and in the end it was not possible for them to get
sittings.
He entirely agreed with Mr. Wright as to the need for
laboratory methods ; he was quite sure that it was a very
important matter which the Society ought to bear in mind.
It ought to have a laboratory, although laboratories were not
a safe passport to success. He said this largely in \'iew of
some American reports in American Universities where these
laboratory methods had been tried. The results were negative,
and the fact of course was in a sense hostile to the work of
the Society. He thought that though close attention was
given to the actual experiments, the experiments were in-
sufficient, they were not persevered in, and ought to be
supplemented by further experiments.
There was another point, and that was in regard to
" spirit " photography. The great difficulty was to make sure
that one had got a normal plate and he thought possibly Mr.
Wright rather underrated the difficulties ; for to keep a
plate under continuous observance was not by any means an
easy thing to do. Mr. Wright would be interested in an
elaborate report made by a lady in Washington, whose bo7ia
fides was above suspicion, which was pubhshed recently in the
last Part of the Proceedings of the American Society for
Psychical Research. The repoi-t and examination of this
collection were by Dr. Walter Prince, the author of the account
of the " Doris Fischer " case. Dr. Prince, he thought, proved
pretty conclusively that this collection of spirit photographs
was not genuine, and that there was nothing produced that
could not have been brought about by fraud.
The last point he would say anything about was the matter
of telepathy. He thought that there Mr. Wright was opti-
222 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1920.
mistic ; the Society would like a great deal more evidence,
and would like to be able to meet the doubts which were
still being expressed.
Mb. Piddington said that he agreed with Dr. Crawford.
The main object was to get the work of investigation well
done. Dr. Crawford published his results so that everyone
could read them. He thought there was a certain advantage
in having an independent investigation, for there were a
certain number of people who looked with suspicion on any-
thing done by the S.P.K., and therefore any independent
person who brought out a report was well received by many,
particularly if he was known as a scientific man. He sympa-
thised with Dr. Crawford for this reason.
Mr. Wright said in his paper that co-operation and co-
ordination were highly desirable. He thought Mr. Wright was
for a moment forgetting the difference between the investi-
gation of psychical phenomena and the ordinary investigation
of physical science. In the laboratory, the personality of
the investigator was unimportant ; the same thing still
happened if a person was sympathetic or unsympathetic—this
would not affect the actual physical phenomena. In psychical
phenomena the investigator made an enormous difference, and
he thought that the difference might be in the fact that the
medium did not know an investigator.
Mr. Whately Smith thought Dr. Crawford ought to let
the Society make an investigation on scientific grounds. At
present the report rested on the authority of one person only ;
the medium might lose her powers, or she might die, and
then the critical public would say that there was no con-
firmation, and the whole of that very valuable work would
be wasted.
With regard to the evidence for survival, one impression
made in his mind was that the whole thing was getting
confused. It was very difficult to advise a person as to
survival until they could put something definite, or that
could be called conclusive, before him. He thought it
might be worth while to strike out on entirely new lines.
He had written a letter a few months ago which was printed
in the Journal in which he made this suggestion, and it
naturally called forth a certain amount of criticism. But
JVNE, 1920. Some Impressions of a New Associate. 223
he thought the Society might venture to investigate as to
survival by entirely new methods.
Mr. C. N. Bennett said he had been an Associate for
seven years and the first thing that impressed him very much
was that the Society had no laboratory and organised system
of research.
Having got nothing fijst-hand, and having merely paid
his subscription, he had decided not to resign, but to join
another Society, i.e. The London Spiritualist Alhance. He had
not been a member for six weeks—he was not a spiritualist
by any means—before they asked him to join in their
development circle and to take on developing plates which
they had been trying to get experiments from. One found
that people there got to work, and there was behind it all
an atmosphere of something being done.
It seemed to him that the only thing expected from the
subscriber was his subscription and a little second-hand
evidence. He should prefer that something was being done
in which members could get first-hand evidence. The Society
should pick its members' brains, not merely their pockets.
Dr. Woolley said he knew of no single scientific Societv
which conducted its experiments with an individual alone.
How could an individual member carry on investigation of
any sort ? The only way was for groups of members to
conduct experiments and then to bring them for discussion
before everyone here. Experiments which were absolutely
satisfactory to one's self alone, others would not accept.
But they would accept the evidence of an experienced Com-
mittee, such as this Society appointed, which was exactly
what it was working for.
Mrs. Boustead said that what she felt about this dis-
cussion was that the experiences of new people would never
meet the aims of the Society. What they wanted was the
opinion of this Society as a body ; the opinions of individuals
worild not convince other people.
Mrs. Hobhouse said that the Society offered little encourage-
ment in finding mediums, and little could be done without them.
Mrs. Kingsley said that she could not agree with the
lady who had just spoken that there was little encoiiragement
shown. About a year ago, quite by accident, she took
224 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1920.
part in a series of experiments, and it was discovered tiiat
a young man who was present went into trance. She came
at once to the Society and she was received with the utmost
courtesy. Miss Newton invited her to bring the young man
to the Society's rooms, but unfortunately he could not be
persuaded to be investigated.
The Hon. Everard Feilding thought that if members
were to take the line of the lady who had just spoken they
would find that they would have exactly the same experience.
The Council was always ready to form a Committee of
members, who had had experience in research and investiga-
tion, and who had certainly experience of the sources of
errors. The difficulty was to get people to subject themselves
to any long series of experiments by which alone good
results could be obtained.
So far as the subject of the paper was concerned he had
himself much sympathy with the suggestion made by the
writer. He had for a long time thought that a laboratory
where a few simple laboratory apphances, weighing and other
instruments, could be installed, would be of great use.
Dr. Schiller having then called upon Mr. Wright to make
a reply, if he wished to do so, Mr. Wright said he only
wanted to correct one impression which had arisen from
his paper. He did not mean that there was the sHghtest
neglect on the part of the Society to investigate Dr. Craw-
ford's medium, but he meant to imply that it was regrettable
that as a scientific man Dr. Crawford would not permit the
investigation by this Society.
APPENDIX TO PART LXXVIII OF PEOCEEDINGS.
The Appendix to Part LXXVIII. of the Proceedings, circulated
witli this Journctf completes Vol. XXX., of which bound copies
will soon be ready. Part LXXIX., wliich was recently circu-
lated, is the first Part of A^ol. XXXI.
EPKATUM
In the Journal for April-May, 1920, on p. 188, Mr. Trevor
Basil Woodd is incorrectly referred to as Mr. Tudor Basil Woodd.
We take this opportunity of correcting the mistake.
No. CCCLXVII.—Vol. XIX. Jdlv, 1920.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
The Rooms of the Society at 20 Hanover Square, London,
W. 1, will be closed after Saturday, July 31st, re-
opening on Monday, September 13th. The next
number of the '
Journal ' v/ill be issued in October.
NEW MEMBERS.
Brooks, R. Birkett, R.N., Royal Naval Depot, Sheerness.
Coates, Mrs. George, The " Angela," Victoria, B.C., Canada.
Cranston, Mrs., c/o Guaranty Trust Co., 50 Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
d-riswold, Willard S., ^36 Hartwell Avenue, Waukesha, Wis.,
U.S.A.
Savory, H. J., 7 Shamrock Street, Napier, New Zealand.
The Society desires to thank those further Associates who
have become Members since the circulation of the Journal for
April-May, 1920.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
It is hoped that a Meeting of the Society will be held during
the first week of October at which Dr. Sydney Alrutz, of
Upsala, will read a paper on his hypnotic experiments. A
further notice of the Meeting will be circulated some time in
September.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 173rd Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Sqtiare, London, W., on Monday, July 19th, 1920, at 3.30 p.m.;
226 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1920.
Sir Olivee Lodge in the chair. There were also present
:
Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir W. F. Barrett, Rev. M. A. Bayfield,
Hon. Everard Feilding, Sir Lawrence Jones, Dr. T. W. Mitchell,
Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. W. H. Salter, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller,
Mrs. Henry Sidgwdck, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ; also, Mrs. Salter,
Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Five new Members were elected. Then names and addresses
are given above.
The Monthly Account for June was presented and taken as
read.
It was agreed that the Rooms of the Society should be
closed this year on July 31st until vSeptember L3th.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 161st General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Robert Barnes Hall of the Royal Society of Medicine, 1 Wim-
pole Street, London, W., on Monday. July 19th, 1920, at
5 p.m.
A Presidential Address was delivered by Dr. Wm. McDougaix.,
F.R.S., which will be published later in Proceedings.
CASES.
I. An Incident in a Sitting with Mrs. Leonard.
The above report of an incident which occurred at a sitting
with Mrs. Osborne Leonard has been sent to us by the sitter,
Mrs. Beadon, a member of the Society. We have had other
reports of her sittings from Mrs. Beadon and know her to be a
careful and accurate recorder. The case gains an additional
interest from the fact that the apparent communicator, whom
we will here call Mrs. Parkinson, is the same lady who was the
apparent telepathic agent in a case printed in the Journal for
July, 1919 (pp. 83 fi.), when a priest received, as he thought, a
telephone message summoning him to the bedside of a dying
woman desirous of receiving the last Sacrament. In the earlier
case the impression was received a few hours before Mrs.
Parkinson's death ; the sitting with Mrs. Leonard, recorded
July, 1920. Case: Incident in Sitting tvith Mrs. Leonard. 227
here, took place about a fortnight after her death. The case is
also of interest as being an instance in which knowledge was
shown by Mrs. Leonard's trance-control which was apparently
acquired by supernormal means and was not in the possession
of the sitter at the time.
Mrs. Beadon first gave an account of her experience in an
interview with the Secretary, Miss Newton, and afterwards sent
us a record of it at Miss Newton's suggestion. The names and
addresses of all the persons concerned are known to us, but by
request are not printed.
Mrs. Beadon's record, sent to us on April 25, 1920, ran as
follows :
From Notes taJcen during a Sifting ivith Mrs. Leonard.
On Saturday, November 30th, 1918, I had a sitting with Mrs.
Leonard.
In the middle of the commumcation slie was giving slie broke
off to say that there was a spirit present who was very anxious
to get through. It was given almost like an interruption—agitated
and eager. I got the idea that it was a man and have con-
sequently in my notes written masculine pronouns throughout.
Feda. There is a spirit who is very anxious to be known
—
looks about 35 medium build, firm face—good
features medium colouring. Passed over after
influenza
J. E. B. I am afraid I do not recognise him T know no one
who has passed over with influenza
Feda. Not sure if you have heard of it yet—about 10
days ago
—
J. E. B. Can he give a name ?
(Feda wrote the letter S with her finger and said, " he ^ gives
a curly letter like that " but she did not say
" S.") Gives a letter like J.
J. E. B. Can he give any more ?
Feda. He gives P. very distinctly— (She wrote P. with
her finger and said it as well.)
Will you write that down a curly letter & a
^ It would seem from the use of this pronoun as tliougli Feda accepted the
sitter's interpretation as regards sex, hut it may be that Mrs. Beadon
misinterpreted Feda owing to her own preconceived idea.
228 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1920
P. [T only wrote the " P " as I never accept the
letters she writes in the air unless she names
them as well. J. E. B.]
I am sorry I do not recognise anyone.
(Feda then began to speak of another subject,
and then suddenly interrupted herself to say :)
[Kitty !] he gives that as a clue— [Kitty] would
know—[Stevenson]—helping [Stevenson]— Ask
[Kitty Stevenson]
—
Keeps pointing to his own side and says here—
mysterious— Now J again— J is helping—to do
with some one who lias passed over— [Kitty]
should know
—
The above is all that was given except that I am almost sure
she added " ft.", which I hear is her [Mrs. Parkinson's] husband's
name, but it is not in my notes, so is of no value. I remember
saying : "Is there a message for [Kitty Stevenson] ? Feda
replied :
" It is too soon for messages—find out who it is first."
I had no idea who S. P. might be, but I have a friend whose
name is [Kitty Stevenson]. I was much interested at the vivid,
clear way the whole name was given.
Mrs. [Stevenson] has had no experience of spiritualism, and has
never seen Mrs. Leonard.
My sitting was on a Saturday. The following Monday I went
to see Mrs. [Stevenson]. She was in bed recovering from influenza.
I went up to her room. I asked her if she had lost any friend
from influenza in tlie present epidemic. She said she had not.
I told her why I asked. She was interested that her name had
been brought in by a stranger who did not know of her existence,
but it seemed to be in the wrong connection, as she knew nobody
who had died lately.
A couple of days later I liad occasion to telephone to Mrs.
[Stevenson]. Her husband answered the telephone. He said :
" Poor [Kitty] is dreadfully upset, she has just heard of the death
of a great friend [Sylvia Parkinson]. She is particularly upset
because it seems she died nearly a fortnight ago and [Kitty] feels
she should have been told she was ill. It was pneiimonia following
influenza. [Kitty] is so distressed that she was not sent for."
Evidently S. P. stood for [Sylvia Parkinson]. J. is my own
name " Joanna," and may be that I was " helping " by receiving
J. E. B.
Feda.
Jdlt, 1920. Case : Incident in Sitting ivith Mrs. Leonard. 229
the message. I do not know if there is any other J. I did not
know Mrs. [Parkinson] although I believe I met her at Mrs.
[Stevenson's] before her marriage about 2-5 years ago. I have no
clear recollection of it. Her name was Miss 0 then.
Joanna E. Beadon.
We have received the followiug corroborative statement from
Mrs. Stevenson :
31ay ith, 1920.
]\Irs. Beadon came to see me on December 2nd, 1918, and
found me in bed with influenza. She asked me whether I had
heard of the death of any friend, as she had received a message
for me during a sitting with Mrs. Leonard on Saturday, November
30th. I told her that I did not know of anyone having passed
over.- and when the message was repeated to me, I failed to
associate the initials with any friend. I went downstairs two days
afterwards and immediately went to the telephone to ask Mrs. G
—
[Parkinson], one of my greatest friends, for an address. I was
horrified and terribly distressed at hearing the news of Mrs.
[Parkinson's] death, which had occurred on or about November
13th. Mrs. [Parkinson] died from septic pneumonia. Her name
was [Sylvia], and she was of medium height, with small delicate
featm-es and light brown hair, age 35. G. F. [Stevenson].
A further corroborative statement was received from Mr.
Stevenson, thus :
May 4, 1920.
I am able to testify to the fact that my wife, Mrs. A. [Steven-
son], [Kitty] had no knowledge whatever of either the illness or
death of Mrs. G [Parkinson], [Sylvia] until quite two weeks
after it occurred. Her first knowledge of this was gained when she
telephoned through to Mrs. [Parkinson's] house to ask for the
country address of the latter 's sister.
My wife was terriblv distressed, for Mrs. [Parkinson] was one of
her oldest and dearest friends, and it was a long time before she
recovered from the shock of the unexpected announcement she
received over the telephone. A. [Stevenson].
In reply to an enquiry from us, Mrs. Beadon wrote on
May 25, 1920 :
]Mrs. [Stevenson's] name has never been mentioned in any sitting
or in any connection except in the case I have reported. Once in
230 Journal of Society fur Psychical Research. July, 1920.
a previous .sitting [with Mrs. Leonard] the initial H. was given in
a connection whicli I tliouglit might refer to Mrs. Stevenson under
her maiden name H , but I am not sure about it. [Mrs.
Beadon then, gives cm account of this incident, hut it has no con-
nection with the present case, and so is not 'printed here.]
A few days after Mrs. [Stevenson] liad heard of Mrs. [Par-
kinson's] death she told me the story of the call for the priest
which she had just heard from Mrs. [Parkinson's] sister. When
I saw it reported in the S.P.R., I recognised it, but I do not
know who sent it.
J. E. Beadon.
II.
M. 106. A Case of Clairvoyance ?
The following case is one in wliicli a train of thought, closely
associated with a particular object, was apparently aroused by
contact with the object in a manner not easily explicable by
normal caAises. The narrator of the incident, Mr. H. S. Cowper,
of High House, Hawkshead, Ambleside, originally sent his
record to Sir Oliver Lodge, by whom it was forwarded to us.
The record ran as follows :
September 25, 1919.
In July, 1917, at the dis])ersal of tlie well-known Pelham
Clinton-Hope Collection at Christie's, I becaine the owner of a
remarkable Egyptian statuette of black basalt. The figure is
eigliteen inches high, and is a portrait of an old priest. The
work is of considerable artistic value, being in the remarkable
realistic style of the XXVIth dynasty (Saitic), 662-525 B.C.
In the same sunmier my son Christopher, then over 14 yea,rs
of age, was at my house in Kent for the holidays. Of course
I showed him the figure, and I sliould mention that at tliat
time the long inscrij^tion at the back had not been read, and
I was unaware of the contents. I was, however, aware that it
was Saitic, and represented a priest or scribe. As far as I can
remember it was early in the liolidays, and probably in August,
that my sou was looking at the figure in my library, and standing
alongside the table with his hand on its head he said, " Father,
what is the story about the lost Atlantis ?
There was nothing to lead up to this question. I had told
him the story of Atlantis vaguely a long while before, and when
he asked me I was absolutely at a loss where to look it up and
JVLt, 1920. Case : A Cane of Glairvoyatice t 2S1
tell it him correctly. I ransacked books for several clays, and
it was only by references in classical dictionaries, and the travels
of Ali Bey el-Abassi, that I remembered the connection of the
story with Plato and a priest of Sais.
Though the coincidence seemed remarkable, 1 Jiave never in-
vestigated further until asked to record the facts. A friend of
mine has now (Septendjer, 1919) furnished me with a reference,
for I do not possess a Plato. He writes me :
" In Plato's Timaeus (22 if.), Kritias, one of the interlocutors,
tells a story which his grandfather (also named Kritias) was
told by Solon (his elderly relative). This was that Solon, when
travelling in Egypt, had been told by a priest of the Goddess
Neith in Sais how, in far away prehistoric times, the people who
then inhabited Athens had, successfully, repelled a great incm'sion
made into the Mediterranean regions by the rulers and people of
the Continent of Atlantis, which continent afterwards disappeared in
the course of a great natural convulsion in the Atlantic Ocean.
"
An account of my statuette was published with three plates in
an article by Miss M. A. Murray in " Ancient Egypt," edited
by Prof. W. F. Petrie, Part IV., 1917, but which I think did
not appear till about Christmas. The date is given as about
600 B.C., and it represents Nefer Smaa. There is a long hiero-
glyphic inscription down the back, in which he is described as
" The Great One "-—" Scribe of the Five '
—and " Beloved of Men
and Neith of Sais." As the Five were the council of the temple,
he was apparently chief priest and scribe ; and also, I take it,
priest of Neith.
Solon was born 638, died 558 B.C.
lb seems therefore quite likely that Solon was in Sais when this
priest was living there, and consequently he may have been, and
not improbably was, the narrator of the Atlantis story to Solon.
The problem is : Why should my son ask this question with
his hand on Nefer Smaa's head.
I am aware of three other portraits of tlie same period and
style. I do not tliink others are known, but possibly may be,
as I am not abreast of modern Egyptology. There was a portrait
head at Berlin, there is a scribe's head at the Louvre, and another
belonged to Prince Ibrahim at Cairo. All are heads of old men
realistically treated in the remarkable Saitic style. I rather think
they are not inscribed, but all are probably officials.
H. S. COWPER.
232 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1920.
The incident took place at Great Loddenden, Staplehiirst, Kent,
which I have since sold.
We subsequently wrote to Mr. Cowper asking if lie could
remember whether, when he first told his son the story of
the lost Atlantis, he had said anything to him of its con-
nexion with a priest of Sais. He replied as follows :
January 7, 1920.
With reference to your enquiries enclosed,
(1) I think it is quite impossible that when I told my son
Christopher, then a mere child, about the Atlantis story. I could
have mentioned anything about a priest of Sais. I do not think
I knew at that date that a priest of Sais had anything to do
with the story. It was only a story of a lost or submerged
continent, which T thought would interest a child.
(2) On the other hand, when I showed him the statuette / am
sure I told him it was of the Saitic period, because I recognised
it as of this remarkable art period when I bought it.
It was only when he began to talk about Atlantis that I had
to look the story up, and then found that the priest of Sais
came into it.
One cannot remember these things, but my impression is that
my knowledge of " Atlantis," when I told the child about it,
was obtained from a clever modern novel on the subject, both
title and author of which I now forget, and not from study of
ancient authors at all. H. S. Cowpee.
It would therefore appear that any knowledge Mr. Cowper's
son may have had concerning a connexion between a priest
of Sais and the lost Atlantis did not derive from Mr. Cowper.
But it is, of course, impossible to prove that the boy had
never had any knowledge at all of such a connexion. He
would not at that age have read Plato's Timaeus, but he
might have come across the story of Solon and the priest of
Sais told somewhere as an anecdote. But even if we suppose
that he had some latent knowledge on this point, we have
still to take into account the close connexion between the lost
Atlantis and Mr. Cowper's statuette revealed by the reading
of the inscription at the back. At the time of the incident
described by Mr. Cowper, neither he, nor bis son, nor, so far
as can be ascertained, any other living person knew anything
July, 1920. Case : A Case of Clairvoyance ? 233
of the inscription, which was not read until some months
later. Prima facie, the incident suggests that Mr. Christopher
Cowper's train of thought was aroused hy his contact with
the statuette rather than by any other person's thoughts or
knowledge concerning the statuette.
That the human mind is able to derive information from
physical objects directly without the intervention of any other
mind is a theory often propounded ; but the evidence for
this theory is at present comparatively scanty. Perhaps the
strongest evidence recently brought to the notice of the Society
is that afforded by some of the " book-tests " obtained at
sittings with Mrs. Leonard, whose information concerning closed
books appears to have been derived directly from the books
themselves in a manner which our present scientific know-
ledge is quite unable to explain. It is worth noting that in
the case recorded above the information showing the close
connexion between the statuette and the story of the lost
Atlantis could be derived (supernormally, so far as Mr. Chris-
topher Cowper was concerned) from the unread inscription at
the back.
NOTES ON RECENT PERIODICALS.
Thinking Animals Again.
To judge by a review of recent German literature in the Archives
de Psychologie No. 68 (Dec. 1919), p. 342, the controversy on
this subject is by no means extinct, and the remarks in the
Journal No. 359 (Dec. 1919), p. 128-9, require a certain measure
of correction. It docs not appear to be true that Dr. Neumann's
experiments are admitted to have disposed of the claims of
the dog Rolf, of Mannheim ; on the contrary Fraulein Moekel
maintains that he continues to " talk " in sjjite of her mother's
death, and retorts upon Dr. Neumann that he had himself uttered
aloud the name of the friend which he had supposed Rolf could
have got only from her. Further it appears that a number of
Rolf's descendants have been educated, and have shown that
his genius is hereditary by acliieving more or less the same feats
Lastly a Dr. Wolif has upheld the claims of the Elberfeld horses
by further experiments with the blind stallion Berto, which are
said completely to exclude every way of transmitting unconscious
signs. F. C. S. S.
234 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1920.
CORRESPONDENCE.
Evidence of Subvival.
To THE Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—Some years ago I had an experience which raised a
question similar to that suggested by Mr. Hubert Wales and
answered by Miss R.adclyf!e-Hall, a propos of the incident of
" Billy " the dog. I received through a medium a statement
that my Will contained an error. The remark was spontaneous
;
I had neither inquired about, nor suspected, an error ; he did
not tell me what was the nature of the error. I sent for the
document (which was not in my keeping), and as I could detect
nothing wrong I forwarded it to a friend (a Judge), who replied
saying that the Will, as drawn, contained a " bad blunder " which
he had known solicitors make on some previous occasion. It was
of a technical character and not one I could have recognised.
The question this suggests is : Was anyone who had died
likely to have known of this in his lifetime ? An affirmative
answer seems impossible from the nature of the case. Before the
medium made this statement, however, he described to me an
elderly man whom I recognised as my Uncle and Guardian,
though I did not say so ; he then said, that he got the word
" uncle," and asked whether he had helped me to draw up any
document before he died. I re])lied that he had helped me to
draw up my Will. It was then that he said very emphatically :
" I get incorrect so strongly."
Although the bare statement concerning the error does not
point to communication from the departed, if isolated from the
context, any more than does the statement of facts concerning
" Billy," the association of this statement with a clearly recog-
nised personality should be a factor—and perhaps the determining
factor—in forming a judgment as to the source and significance
of the statement. I am bound to ask : Why should the clair-
voyant faculty of the medium see my Uncle before telling me of
the error in my Will ? If the discovery of the blunder is to be
attributed to travelling clairvoyance, and it is supposed that
by this means, and this jneans alone, he was able to discern a
technical error unrecognised up to that time by any living person,
why did he previously see the "person who may have been, un-
intentionally, responsible for that error before he died?
The fact tliat he was my Guardian and had taken charge of
July, 1920. Revievj. 235
my financial affairs for many years makes it entirely suitable
that he should try to point out the error if he became aware
of it after his death ; but I do not see how the undirected clair-
voyance of the medium accounts for the incident in a reasonable
manner. There is a coherence and purposefulness in the circum-
stances which seems to me to require the recognition of an
intelligent mind which is not that of the medium, who knew
nothing of my affairs. Similarly the Billy " incident is associated
with A. V. B." Although these associations do not afford
definite proof of the source of the communication (and are not
claimed as so doing), they tip the balance in favour of the
spiritistic explanation for those who have become convinced, by
exhaustive study of a mass of evidence, that that interpretation
is reasonable and well authenticated in many other instances.
I reported the incident concerning my Will in Light soon after
it occurred, and I have also published it in my little book
Objections to Spiritualism Answered (pp. 97, 98). H. A. Dallas.
REVIEW.
The Hill of Vision. Bv F. Bli&h Bond, (Constable, pp xxv
134. 7s. 6d.)
This extremely interesting book is an account of certain auto-
matic scripts written by the author's friend Mr. John Alleyne,
who also produced those which led to the discovery of the Edgar
Chapel at Glastonbury, as related in Mr. Bond"s previous work.
The Gate of Remembrance. The present scripts, written between
October 15, 1909, and August 21, 1918, contain prophecies of
war produced in 1909. 1911 and 1912, and prophecies of the
date of the ending of the war produced in the spring of 1918.
The latter are of a remarkable character. The script of March
29 (Good Friday) contains the following statement :
Watch ! At Easter Day the tide will turn and ebb swiftly and con-
sistently. The very elements will fight on the side" of Right,
and be used in the accomplishment of the intended trap into which
they have fallen.
On Easter Monday the evening papers came out for the first
time with the headlines "The Tide has turned," and in a letter
published on April 2 (Tuesday) the correspondent of the Daily
Chronicle wrote, "The luck of the weather has turned for about
the first time that I can call to mind, and gone completely
against the enemy." The script of March 27 (Wednesday in
236 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jolt, 1920.
Holy Week) had already af&rmed, " The balance rises and will
soon show a full preponderance on the side of intrinsic right.
The last great effort passes away." As early as March 13 the
following was written :
'"
When the eighth month of the year
ends failure (?) will be more evident in those (?) that ye pursue.
The twenty-fourth day will see surcease (?) of battle." It was
added, however, that " an outward semblance of war may con-
tinue sporadically and intermittently long after the opposing
nations [the enemy] have ceased to desire it." It cannot be
denied that this prophecy dates with substantial accuracy the
great and unexpected collapse of the German front which defin-
itely placed victory in the hands of the allies. From August 25
the Germans ceased to be capable of taking the offensive.
These brief extracts from the somewhat lengthy scripts will
be sufiBcient to show that we have here unusually strong evidence
of precognition. How the information was obtained by the
automatist, whether through inhabitants of the spirit world
(the " Watchers " of the script) or more immediately, the reader
may speculate at his leisure ; the scripts afford little guidance
in either direction. Of one thing, however, we can be sure,
that the source was not " Augustus Caesar Imperator," (some-
times " Imperator " or " Imper.") whose name is appended to
a long script in English, dated October 15, 1909, which contains
a quotation from S. Paul and begins with three Latin sentences :
Fortuna fuit. Caelum ruit. Labor fruit in aeternum. The
remarkable word fruit is apparently intended to mean " bears
fruit " ! Several of Mr. Alleyne's scripts in The Gate of Remem-
brance are in monkish Latin, and it looks as though these words
were meant for four lines of verse.
The book also contains prophecies of certain world-convulsions
to take place after the war, and much space is occupied by
philosophical matter. The latter, the scope of which is mainly
confined to the war and its consequences, embodies much that
is both truth and wisdom ; the inherent self-destructiveness of
evil is insisted upon, and the predominance of spiritual forces
in determining the course of the world's history is strongly
emphasised. In this connexion one would like to know more
of Mr. Alleyne's personality.
'
The work is one which no student of Psychic Science should
leave unread. M. A. Bayfield.
No. CCCLXVIIL—Vol. XIX. October, 1920.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.,
On MONDA Y, OCTOBER ^th, 1920, at 5 /.;;/.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" Problems of Hypnotism. Experimental Investiga-
tions on Nervous Effluence and Telepathic
Influence" (with lantern slides),
WILL BE READ BY
Dr. SYDNEY ALRUTZ (of Upsala).
N.B.
—
-No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates tvill be ad?nitled on signing their names at t/ie door.
238 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1920.
IN MEMORIAM : JAMES HERVEY HYSLOP.-
By Sir Oliver LoDas, F.R.S.
James Hervey Hyslop was born at Xenia, Ohio, August 18th,
1854, his father's name being Robert Hyslop. He graduated
at Wooster in 1877, and after studying in the University of Leipzig
from 1882 to 1884, was awarded the Ph.D. of Johns Hopkins
University in 1887, and the LL.D. of Wooster in 1902. In
1891 he married Mary Fry Hall of Philadelphia, who died in
1900, leaving one son. Dr. George M. Hyslop, and two
daughters, one of whom lived with and nursed her father
to the end of his life. = m
He gave instruction in Philosophy at Lake Forest University,
Illinois, and at other Colleges in the States, from 1880
onwards ;
becoming Professor of Logic and Ethics in Columbia
University, New York, in 1895, and holding the chair tiU
1902. In 1895 the American Branch of the English S.P.R.,
which had begun in 1884, was discontinued, owing to the
death of its secretary, Dr. Richard Hodgson ; and about that
time the American Institute for Scientific Research, which
had been incorporated by Prof. Hyslop in 1903, became
the American S.P.R., and .
carried on its work independently
of the English Society. The energy and enthusiasm of Prof.
Hyslop enabled an endowment fund of 170,000 dollars to
be accumulated ; and in the October number of the Journal
of the English S.P.R., 1907, the following sentence occurs
:
"It is very satisfactory that the American Society
should already have found so much material of interest
and value, and it is hardly necessary to add that their
cautious and scientific treatment of it shows that they
are fully alive to the necessity for keeping up the standard
of evidence in psychical research."
It is understood that although Prof. Hyslop had given up
his chair in Columbia University in order to devote his time
to a subject of which he realized the great and growing
importance, he declined to draw any salary from the funds
of the American Society, and for thirteen years gave his
services without remuneration, so that all the funds subscribed
might be used for the necessary work. Whether or not it
Oct., 1920. In Memoriam : James Hervey Hyslop. 239
was wise thus to handicap himseK by restricting his social
opportunities, may be uncertain ; but his action aroused the
keenest admiration in America, and increased the respect
universally felt for the devoted and self-sacrificing spirit and
the energetic work of Prof. Hyslop.
Under his guidance the American Society have issued bulky
volumes of Proceedings and Journal, a great part of which
was written by Hyslop himself ; and he was also the author
of the following works :
Elements of Logic, 1892 ; Ethics of Hume, 1893 ;
Democracy,
1899 ;
Logic and Argument, 1899 ;
Syllabus of Psychology, 1899 ;
Problems of Philosophy, 1905 ; Science and a Future Life, 1905 ;
Enigmas of Psychical Research, 1906 ; Borderland of Psychical
Research, 1906 ;
Psychical Research and the Resurrection, 1908 ;
Psychic Research and Survival, 1913 ; Life after Death, 1918
;
Contact with the Other World, 1919.
In 1899 the English Society elected Hyslop one of its
Vice-Presidents, a recognition which pleased him, especially as
his stand for Psychical Research in America had the effect of
cutting him off from a good deal of academic association.
Early in 1920 Hyslop, whose health was never good, had a
slight stroke, from which he only partially recovered. It affected
his power of speech, and he was troubled with a good deal of
aphasia, especially in the difficulty or impossibility of remembering
proper names. He was much interested in this feature of his
illness, and desired notes to be taken of his attempts at names
of people exceedingly well known to him, in order to compare
those attempts with the efforts of mediums to report proper
names of communicators on " the other side." His idea pre-
sumably was that this early symptom of dislocation, or inaccessi-
bility of a portion of the brain, might correspond with a similar
inaccessibility by a medium's brain to some telepathic or other
purely psychic impressions.
Hyslop was converted to belief in survival and the possibility
of communication, in the first instance, by messages from his
father through the mediumship of Mrs. Piper, with whom he
made a long series of experiments laboriously reported in the
English S.P.R., Vol. XVI., but his later investigations were
carried on chiefly with the aid of an American medium known
as Mrs. Chenoweth ; a great mass of this evidence, collected by
240 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1920.
himself and other sitters, being reported in the American Pro-
ceedings.
The result of Hyslop's concentration on Psychical work, which he
had the advantage of entering as a Psychologist, was to render
him contemptuous of the hypothesis that every piece of information
gathered from an entranced medium could be traced to telepathy
from the conscious or sub-conscious mind of living people. He
considered that the tendency to stretch telepathy, as an explana-
tion, far beyond the experimental evidence for it, was illegitimate ;
and he held moreover, as we all do, that telepathy is a name
for a process, rather than an explanation of how it occurs. He
considered that people were liable to confuse telepathy as a fact,
which it is, with telepathy as a full explanation, which it is
not.
At the same time he admits that the mere fact of telepathy, as
a mental process beyond the range of the ordinary senses, was
in itself an idealistic argument, tending in the direction of
establishing a separate existence for mind and body, and strengthen-
ing the probability of survival of one without the other ; and
this part of the argument, near the end of his life, he summarised
thus :
" The lesson to be learned from the fact of telepathy,
though no explanation of it has been found, is that normal
sense-perception is not our only source of knowledge.
Materialism must stand or fall with the evidence for the
limitation of knowledge to sense-perception ; and telepathy,
if it applies to information acquired at great distances, is
a complete refutation of that theory. If we do not accejrt
the large body of evidence for the existence of spirits, we
are obliged to substitute for that view the theory of telepathy,
which is in itself a guarantee of a transcendental world of
some sort, since it implies that the brain is not the sole
condition of consciousness."
Of Hyslop's position in the world of Philosophy, the writer
is not competent to speak, but he ventures to think that it
would have been even higher than it is, if Hyslop had had the
gift of expressing himself in clear and simple English. Throughout
his voluminous writings the sentences are frequently involved,
and sometimes so curiously constructed that it is difl&cult to
disentangle their meaning. The writer once took him to task
for this defect, assuming that it must be due to haste or careless-
Oct., 1920. In Memoriam : James Hervey Hyslop. 241
ness ; but in reply to the question, why he dictated his papers
and did not take the trouble to correct them, Hyslop indignantly
repelled the implied accusation, asserting that he wrote his papers
himself and took a great deal of trouble with their composition.
Their involved and at times barely readable character thus
becomes in itself a psychic phenomenon, to the elucidation of
which the present writer has no clue.
The last thing he desires, however, is to end on a note of
criticism. Amid a confused welter of credulity on the one
hand, and self-satisfied ignorance on the other, the work of
organising a Society for Psychical Eesearch in any country must
be a strenuous and sometimes discouraging task. For the self-
sacrificing and pertinacious labours of Hyslop no one who knew
him feels anything but warm admiration. And those who have
worked for the much-needed rational study of psychic phenomena
in America, apart from superstition on the one hand and prejudice
on the other, feel that they owe him a debt they can hardly
hope to repay.
He died in New Jersey on the 17th June, 1920.
CASE.
A Record of Some Experiments in Automatism.
The following case has been sent to us by Miss Hermione
Ramsden, being a record of certain results obtained by a
group of experimenters, members of the Norwegian Society
for Psychical Research, who sit frequently together, and of whom
]\Iiss Ramsden is one. The particular method employed on
this occasion for the recording of the automatic "'
messaD^es
"
was a board upon which the letters of the alphabet were set
out and a glass pointer upon which the experimenters placed
their hands. The real names of the person from whom the
messages purport to come and of her relatives have been
given to us by Miss Ramsden, but at her request pseudonyms
are printed here.
Report by Miss Ramsden.
On Wednesday, October 1-5, 1919, the circle consisted of
Dr. Wereide, Dr. Zogbaum, Froken Bredsdorf? (our medium),
Fru Berg, Fru Ramm, Herr Torkildsen and myself.
2+2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1920.
We received several long commurLications wliicli were per-
fectly intelligible, and then the following :
" Dora hates Helen."
On Tuesday, October 21, the circle was the same as before,
with the addition of Herr Thomassen. We first received a
quotation from Tennyson which we believe to be the first of
a series of cross-correspondences, after which there was a
personal message to H. R. and then :
" Dora hates Helen Amelia de Dinard."
We said :
" Please explain who you are " ; but there was
no response to further questions.
On Saturday, December 6, we held a special sitting for
Consul Aall and his sister ; he also brought a friend, Herr
Kielland. None of the former circle were present except
Frk. Bredsdorff, Fru Berg and myself.
After two messages the following was addressed to me
:
" Alice. Let me try to communicate."
I was very much surprised, as the name suggested a Mrs.
Percival whom I believed to be alive and well.
" I was here the other night with the family."
This referred to a night when Frk. BredsdorfE slept at
16 Incognito gade and had a vision of six spirit forms. I then
asked :
H. R. But when did you die ?
Nobody died, I am here.
H. R. But who are you ? What was your husband's name ?
Adolphus you mean ?
H. R. Yes, but I did not know you had left this world.
May I come again ?
H. R. Yes, do come.
Thank you.
This was followed by a communication to Consul Cato Aall,
after which came the following from our mysterious com-
municator :
Give me hope. It is Hel, Helen ; Dora hate Amelia Dinard.
H. R. Who are you ?
Don't you remember ? I went not so long ago.
H. R. When did I meet you ?
1892.
Oct., 1920. Case: Some Experiments in Automatism. 243
H. R. And where ? In what place ?
What can I tell you 1
H. R. I don't yet understand who you are.
Dora Helen de Dinard hates Amelia.
H. R. Who is Amelia ?
My husband's second wife. I am so awfully imhappy,
help me if you can.
H. R. What makes you so unhappy ?
Hate..
H. R. Where is your husband ?
He was a beast, when he came to me I shut the door.
H. R. What can I do for you ?
Pray for an unhappy soul.
H. R. Have you any messages for friends ?
Ask them all to pray for me.
H. R. Can't you forgive your husband 1
Never.
H. R. Try to love him and you will be happier.
It is just my unhappiness [i.e. that she did love him ?).
H. R. Have you any children with you ?
Nobody is here without that beast ! You hear I shut
the door for him.
H. R. You should try to forgive him.
You can speak.
(The words in italics would be correct in Norwegian.
We notice that towards the end of a seance, the English
is apt to read like a literal translation from the Norwegian
but then Froken Bredsdorff says that the Norwegian is
often like that of an English person.)
On Monday, December 8, Frk. Bredsdorff and I held a
little seance alone, in order to find out—if possible—whether
it was true that " Alice " had died. After two other com-
munications the following came :
Dora Helen. I hate Amelia.
H. R. {very impatient). Tell me your husband's name.
How can I ?
Then another communicator came, one who had known
Alice Percival.
H. R. Tell me, is it true that Alice is on your side ?
I don't know, I will try to find it out. Is it a mistake ?
244 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1920.
H. R. Was she one of those who came that night ?
No, I thought you knew them.
H. R. Please tell me exactly who was there.
(Five names were given as having been there besides
the communicator herself.)
H. R. But Alice told me that she had been here with you, is
it not true ?
No.
(Then we had a very long talk about other matters, aU
perfectly natural, and I am convinced it was as genuine
as any such conversations can be ; but we have seen
how very easily mistakes slip in.)
Write it out and help me :
Dora Helen hates Amelia.
H. R. Who is Amelia 1
My husband's second wife.
H. R. You must tell me your husband's name, otherwise how
can I understand who you are ?
Percival.
H. R. What is his Christian name ?
Don't ask me, I will tell another time. Do help me,
I am so very unhappy. He has forgotten all our love.
H. R. You must try not to hate Amelia so much.
I will hill Amelia.
H. R. If you talk like that, I won't have anything more to
do with you. What was your mother's name ?
Dinard.
H. R. Where did you live ?
Do help me !
I have altered the names according to the usual custom
of the S.P.R. The name exchanged for " Percival " is an
exceedingly well-known name, and although I had no recollec-
tion of having ever met Dora Percival, I knew that it would
not be at all difficult to identify her if she ever really lived,
which I doubted. First I searched the Peerage, but in vain.
Then I turned to Who's Who for 1917, and there I found her.
I confess it gave me an unpleasant shock. 1892 was the
date of her death, and aU five names were correctly given,
except that they were sometimes misplaced. For instance, the
communicator is Dora de Dinard, and the name of Mr.
Oct., 1920. Case: Some Experiments in Automatism. 245
Percival's second wife is Helen Amelia, whereas on one occasion
slie calls herself " Helen " and her rival " de Dinard," but
the confusion is more likely to be on our side than on hers.
The extraordinary, and to my mind the most interesting,
part of all is the mistake about " Alice." I regard this as
entirely due to my own subconsciousness. Dora de Dinard
must have commrmicated the name of Percival to me, but
instead of the letters being pointed out on the spiritoscope,
the name translated itself in my mind to " Alice, " Alice
Percival being the only lady of that name whom I know.
But it is certainly very curious that my subconscious imagina-
tion should have dramatised a whole conversation with Alice,
especially as it must have been transferred from my mind
to the medium's, as I am always more than usually careful
not to influence the glass pointer when I am asking test
questions.
I had many experiences of this kind during my telepathic
experiments with Miss Miles, when it seemed as though my
mind were being helped to get at the right thing by means
of something nearly approaching to it. Compare our first
experiment : the Sphinx, when I got " Luxor in Egypt."
On New Year's Eve, we had another communication. This
time I asked :
H. R. Is Dora de Dinard there ? We have not heard of her
for a long time.
She is stiU hating.
H. R. I want to explain to you that it is 27 years since you
left this world, and your husband must be a very old
man now, so it is time you forgave.
Love has no age. No ! My love is young and too warm
to be laughed at.
H. R. Can you remember your sister's name ? (if she had a
sister ? I wanted proof of something that was not
contained in Who's Who).
I only know that I had a husband that I loved so dearly.
H. R. But can't you tell me your sister's name ?
I can't, don't ask me. Helen Amelia is the only name
- I remember. You didn't know my unhapj^iness.
H. R. Did you know Amelia before your husband married her ?
Yes, but not as a friend.
246 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1920.
H. R. As an enemy then ?
No.
H. R. Did your husband care for her in your lifetime 1
I don't know, but very soon after, too soon, just after,
when I wept for my child and my beloved husband.
Dora died in 1892, and Mr. Percival married again in 1893.
At a later sitting on February 23, 1920, when Froken
Bredsdorfi and I were alone, the following was obtained :
Hate.
H. R. Who is it ?
How can you ask ? I love.
I only saw the awful picture—Helen Amelia in my place.
H. R. Your husband is still alive, what did you mean by
telling me that he was with you and that you had
shut the door on him ?
H. R. He shut the door for me [i.e. on me) that first time I
went back, and my door has been shut {i.e. ever since).
H. R. But is he in this world, or in yours ?
I don't know, I only see that picture.
(" that picture," i.e. that sight, that vision, it would
be correct in Norwegian ; the English messages nearly
always read like translations, and I am told that the
Norwegian messages also read like translations from
English !)
On this occasion the medium had a distinct vision of Dora
de Dinard. She described her as very tall and fair, and said
she pointed to the photograph of a child and to a pendant
which she wore—it was a large single stone set in diamonds.
I will try to find out w-hether this description is correct.
One always forms a mental picture of a person, and I had
fancied her to be a small woman and very vivacious, not
at all like the medium's description.
Editorial Note.
In a letter to us dated March 29, 1920, Miss Ramsden
writes :
The maiden name of [Dora de Dinard] was (her
father's name), but [de Dinard] was the mother's name
and she was christened by it.
Oct., 1920. Case: Some Experiments in Automatism. 247
Subsequently Miss Eamsden informed us that siie had
ascertained that Mr. Percival (Dora de Dinard's husband)
was still alive.
It will be observed that Miss Ramsden and Froken Breds-
dorfi were the only two persons who were present at all the
sittings at which Dora de Dinard purported to communicate.
It appears exceedingly improbable that the names and facts
given had ever been within the knowledge of Froken Bredsdorff,
whose influence is presumably seen in the foreign turns of
language used here and there. On the other hand the curious
episode concerning " Alice Percival " shows, as Miss Ramsden
herself has pointed out, that her own mind was by one means
or another influencing the communications. It is evidently
impossible to prove a negative, namely that Miss Ramsden
had never consciously or unconsciously known anything of
Dora de Dinard or her circumstances. AU that can be said
on this point is that, so far as she is aware. Miss Ramsden
had never met Mr. Percival, or either of his two wives, and
the investigation she entered upon in consequence of the
statements made at the sittings failed to evoke any recollec-
tion in her mind of having ever met the people concerned or
known anything about them.
The year 1892, given at one of the sittings as the date
at which Miss Ramsden met Dora de Dinard, was in fact
the year of the latter's death, as is mentioned in Who's Who.
This mistake rather suggests that if the knowledge shown
in the automatic messages was possessed imconsciously by
Miss Ramsden, Who's Who was the source of that knowledge.^
If that is so, the case is a remarkable instance of cryptomnesia
and unconscious dramatisation.
' Miss Ramsden asks us to say that she quite agrees as to Who's Wlio being a
possible source of the knowledge shown, the copy having been in her possession
since 1917. What struck her particularly was the persistence of the " communi-
cator," in whom none of the automatists took any particular interest. She also
asks us to say that although she does not remember meeting Mr. Percival, or any
of his family, his official position makes it not improbable that she may at sorue
time have come across him at social gatherings in London.
—
Ed.
248 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1920.
CORRESPONDENCE.
I. Cases in the Journal for July, 1920.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
August 4, 1920.
Madam,—Referring to the case of possible clairvoyance on pp. 230-
233 of the July Journal, does it not seem that the j^ossibility
of chance coincidence has been overlooked or insufficiently allowed
for ? The point is, why did Mr. Christopher Cowper ask his
question about Atlantis at the moment when his hand was resting
on the statuette which had—unknown to Mr. Cowper, sen.—
a
roundabout connection with the lost continent ? It is perhaps
tempting to sujDpose some supernormal connection—psychometry
or what not— but this should be done only if normal explanations
seem insufficient. I suggest that the Atlantis story is brought
to mind by many things, and may have come to the surface of
the boy's consciousness by an association-chain beginning with
anything in or about America. In my own mind I believe there
is always a conscious awareness of the Atlantic Ocean when I
think of America, and I know that I sometimes think of Atlantis
in consequence, though I am not specially interested in it and
have not read Plato's account for some time. Perhaps Mr.
Cowper's son had been thinking about something American
—
President Wilson or Charlie Chaplin !
—which brought up the
thought of Atlantis at the lucky moment. Anyhow, whatever
the process, it does not seem that the fact of the Atlantis remark
at that particular moment is beyond a chance-coincidence explana-
tion.
Somewhat similarly with the Mrs. Leonard case on pp. 226-230.
The point is, is it unreasonable to suppose that Mrs. Leonard
had normally acquired knowledge of the death of a Sylvia Parkinson
and that the latter had a friend named Kitty Stevenson ? It
may be unreasonable, but it is a difficult thing to feel sure about.
Some sitters talk a good deal to the medium, and the latter's
knowledge, supraliminal and subliminal, may safely be regarded
as very extensive.
I have no prejudice against supernormal hypotheses, in fact
I am compelled to adopt some far-reaching ones in explanation of
my own experiences ; but we must keep the standard of evidence
high, carefully considering all normal interpretations before allowing
ourselves to go beyond them. J. Arthur Hill.
Oct., 1920. Correspondence. 249
II. On Evidence for Survival.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
July 13, 1920.
Madam,—It is the impression of an old associate that the
investigations of the Society with regard to survival are largely
vitiated by what seems to be the merest assumption that minds,
spirits, souls, persons, whether dead or alive, are separate, mutually
exclusive entities. When a phenomenon occurs the question is
asked, Did this emanate from entity A (who is alive) or from
entity B (who is dead) ? I suggest that this is a bad way of
putting the question. It were better to regard mind as one
and imiversal, and persons as centres of consciousness in it.
When a phenomenon occurs we are, to start with, in doubt as
to whether it emanates from a centre of consciousness at all. It
may be that when a number of centres, more or less consciously
co-operating with one another, desire e.g. that evidence may be
forthcoming, the result may be that a desire to that effect is
set U23 in impersonal mind. Such a desire may become a transient
impersonal centre, a kind of pseudo-person, in telepathic rapport
with the living, co-operating centres. From them it may attract
material {e.g. literary quotations) refashion it and return it as
fragments through mediums. We then get a cross-correspondence
which was not designed by any centre of consciousness either
dead or alive.
R. Gordon Milburn.
REVIEWS.
I. The Idea of Immortality. Its Development and Value. By
George Galloway. The Baird Lecture. Edinburgh, T. & T.
Clark. 1919. Pp. viii, 234.
This scholarly work, by an eminent Scottish theologian, arrives
(as might have been expected) at the conclusion that immortality
is essentially a religious, not a scientific or a philosophic doctrine,
which is bound up with the belief in a personal God, revealed
in Christ, who respects personality in others, and cannot " cast
the souls which proceed from Him as '
rubbish to the void.'
"
This means, of course, that Dr. Galloway prefers to leave the
250 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1920.
question a matter of faith, or, as he says, " a sure hope " : at
the same time he is not merely scornful of those who aim, more
ambitiously, at scientifie knowledge. He devotes some pages to
the " labours " of the S.P.R., and particularly to the argument
from cross-corresj)ondences, points out (as is indeed obvious)
that " it would be extraordinarily hard to prove that these
fragmentary and somewhat elusive messages could only have
emanated from a particular deceased person "
(p. 96), and
comments on " the disappointing character " and " triviality
"
of the messages. His final objection is that the evidence does
not " imply more than a limited survival," and that this is not
" eternal life." In all this, he hardly seems to apprehend the
peculiar strength of scientific proof, which is cumulative though
not final, though he admits that it is " just possible " that
more evidence may be forthcoming. Of course that is just the
advantage scientific evidence has over other methods of proof.
A metaphysical argument is a hit-or-miss affair, and indeed always
the latter, unless it submits to scientific verification after formula-
tion, as any '
anticipation of nature '
should. A religious argument
can only appeal to those who share the faith it presupposes. It
is only scientific evidence that can engender growing probabilities
which gradually appease all doubts. On the other hand scientific
method rather frowns upon the argument from '
disappointment,'
and inquires with what right men form expectations that prejudice
the verdict of the facts. Lastly, the objection that 'survival'
is not '
immortality,' seems hardly to be more than verbal.
Of course no evidence that a man had survived by, say, five
years his reputed '
death,' could prove that he would still be in
being five million years hence : but the principle that sustained
the decapitated Areopagite on his memorable walk from Paris
to St. Denis would seem to be applicable to the case. Ce 71 est
que le premier pas qui coute : if a soul can once survive the
change called '
death,' it surely inspires confidence in its ability
to cope with similar emergencies later. Finally it may be noted
that p. 105 contains a slip. Plato puts the crusty old sea-god,
Glaucus, in the same dialogue with his* gay young brother,
Glaucon ; but it was to the former that he compared the soul
in Rep). 611 D. The passage is a curious one, for it seems to
imply that neither '
desire '
nor '
spirit,' but only '
reason,' belongs
to the immortal soul, and so would knock out '
personal ' immor-
tality : but perhaps it only shows how little even the best
Oct., 1920. Reviews. 251
philosophers have troubled to think coherently about the subject
They too have been content to '
leave it a matter of faith '
!
F. C. S. Schiller.
II. Psycliology and Folklore. By R. R. Marett. London, 1920.
Methuen & Co. Pp. ix, 27-5.
Dr. Marett's brilliant and fascinating Essays, which were mostly
delivered as Presidential Addresses to the Folklore and other
Societies, deal with anthropology from the standpoint of a
philosophical psychologist. They are excellent reading and full
of the ^^gour and vivacity of all Dr. Marett's writings ;
but,
unfortunately for the purposes of the present review, they are
consistently anthropological in their outlook, and strictly relevant
to their title. That is to say they do not concern themselves
with Psychical Research as such, and only touch upon it indirectly
in the paper on The Primitive Medicine Man, to whom he (con-
vincingly) assigns a place in the pedigree of the Priest rather
than of the Physician. Not that Dr. Marett is hostile or im-
sympathetic to Psychical Research—he is too good an empiricist
to beg such questions a priori—but it does not enter into the
plan of any of his papers to consider the truth-value of the
beliefs in magic and the supernatural which anthropology records.
Or rather should record, more fully than it has done. For it
is plain that, even at the lowest estimation, these beliefs are
eminently collectible. When collected, moreover, they should
throw light on several interesting problems of human psychology.
For example, is it a fact that savages in general are more
'
psychic '
or '
mediumistic '
than civilized men 1 That is a
question that should be capable of definite and scientific answer.
It is surely as well worth testing as the colour-sense of savages,
or the allegations that they are stronger and have keener senses.
It may be an illusion ; or again it may turn out to be a fact,
either because '
psychism ' is a primitive endowment that is
atrophying, or because its intensity has been reduced in us by
the prolonged persecution of psychics under the laws against
'
witchcraft.' Then again there are such rites as the '
fire-walk
'
with which no one seems to have concerned himself since the
demise of Andrew Lang, Anyhow it is clear that anthropology
and psychical research ought to co-operate.
F. C. S. Schiller.
252 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1020.
III. Modern Psychical Phenomena. By Heeeward Carrington,
Ph.D. 1919. Pp. xi, 331. London : Kegan Paul, Trench,
Trubner & Co., Ltd.
Dr. Carrington's latest work consists for the most part of articles
which have previously appeared in various reviews and popular
magazines. In one way this is a defect, since what appeals to
a magazine reading public is not the sort of material which is of
value to the serious student of psychical research. Indeed it may
be said that Dr. Carrington has done himself an injustice, however
unavoidable it may have been, in republishing those of his articles
which were originally intended for popular consumption.
The book itself is divided into three parts. In the first Dr.
Carrington touches lightly upon such momentous questions as
man's destiny and the origin of evil, whilst a chapter is devoted
to his own striking theories of vitality, fasting and nutrition,
with special reference to recent ex^^eriments on the physiology
of sleep. In the second part he deals with current theories and
experiments, one chapter being given up to the dynamistograph,
an instrument invented by two Dutch experimenters, through
the mechanism of which they believe that instrumental connexion
may be set up with discarnate entities. Their experiments and
conclusions have been set forth in a volume entitled Het Geheim
van den Dood {The Mystery of Death) which, by the way, has
been translated into French. Dr. Carrington seems to place
more value on these experiments than appears to be warranted
by the facts. He omits for example to mention that the Bureau
International Spiritisme requested the co-director of the Toekomstiy
Leven to prepare a report which was not particularly favourable,
the inventors having already experimented with but poor results
in connexion with a spiritistic group at the Hague. Variations
in temperature and the trouble involved in completely isolating
the apparatus render all such experiments both costly and per-
plexing, and Dr. Carrington seems to have passed over these
difficulties somewhat too easily. Similarly in his treatment of
psychic photography, especially in connexion with the Keeler-
Lee-Bocock photographs, a weakening in Dr. Carrington's usual
critical judgment seems to be apparent which is to be noted
with regret. The volume closes with an interesting discussion
of the physiology of crystal gazing and crystal vision, a line of
research that might be followed up with much profit by future
investigators. E- J- D.
No. CCCLXIX,—Vol. XIX. November, 1920.
•
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.,
Oh THURSDA V, DECEMBER ^th, 1920, at 5 p.m.,
WHEN A REPORT ON
" A Series of Sittings held recently with
Mademoiselle 'Eva C"
WILL BE READ BY
The Honorary Research Officer.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admissio7i are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
254 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1920.
NEW MEMBERS.
Bates, Dr. J. Edwin, 5n Murray Road, Wimbledon, London,
S.W. 19.
Buchan, Mrs. John, Elsfield Manor, Oxford.
Dove, J. S., Lieut. R.N., 80 Pall Mall, London, S.W. L
Faustinus, F., Institut for psykisk Forskning, Sondre Fasanvej 97",
Valhy, Copenhagen.
Foot, Miss Katharine, c/o Messrs. Morgan, Harjes & Co., 14 Place
Vendome, Pari.s, France.
Fulton, Mrs. Hamilton, 35 The Close, Salisbury.
Goldsbrough, G. H., Northfield, Westerham Hill, Kent.
Golledg-e, V. F. Hedworth, Hazlewood Lodge, Enfield.
Goossens, Mrs. F. W., 14 Aynsley Court, Winnipeg, Manitoba,
Canada
.
Greenwood, L. H. G., Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
Leaning", Mrs. S., Elmstead, Epsom Lane, Tadworth, Surrey.
Macdonald, James, Post Office, Port Harcourt, West Africa.
Muir, Mrs. W. E., Rowallan, Haslemere, Surrey.
Mullens, Mrs., 31 Lowndes Square, London, S.W. 1.
Musgrave, Geoffrey, Selukwe, S. Rhodesia, S. Africa.
Norlind, Ernst, 12/L3 Upper Bedford Place, London, W.C. 1.
Pigott, Percy, 416 Hessle Road, Hull.
Rhondda, Sybil Viscountess, Llanwern, Newport, Mon .
Sime, Miss E. B., 9 Norfolk Square, Hyde Park, London, W.
Weston, James, 37 Queen Street, Worthing, Sussex.
Wetterstad, Dr. S., Bondernes hus, Christiania, Norway
.
Wilson, R. S., c/o Messrs. Peirce Leslie & Co., Ltd., Calicut, Mala-
bar Coast, India.
FURTHEK DONATIONS TOWARDS THE INCREASED
COST OF PRINTING.
Mrs. Walter Heape - - - £2 0 0
Mrs. A. M. Russell - - -110.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 174th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Monday, October 4th, 1920, at 4 p.m. ;
Nov., 1920. Meeting of the Couvcil. 255
Mr. J. G. PiDDiNGTON in the Chair. There were also present
:
Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William Barrett, Eev. M. A. Bayfield,
Captain E. N. Bennett, Sir Lawrence Jones, Mr. St. G. L. Fox-
Pitt, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ;
also,
Mrs. Salter, Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton. Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Twenty-two new Members were elected. Their names
and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for July, August and September,
1920, were presented and taken as read.
PEIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
The 64th Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber, ^ at 20
Hanover Square, London, W., on Monday, October 4th, 1920,
at 5 p.m. ; Sir William Barrett in the chair.
Dr. Sydney Alrutz, of Upsala, read a paper on " Problems
of Hypnotism. Experimental Investigations on Nervous
Efl9.uence and Telepathic Influence " (with lantern slides), which
will, it is hoped, be pubhshed later in the Proceedings.
TWO SITTINGS WITH MR. SUTTON.
In consequence of the favourable reports we had received of Mr.
Sutton's powers as a clairvoyant, it was arranged that he
should give two sittings at the Rooms of the Society on
November 3 and 4, 1920, and a number of Members and
Associates were invited to be present.
On these two occasions, however, Mr. Sutton was not
successful, and no results of any value were obtained.
OBITUARY.
W. J. Crawford, D.Sc.
Everyone who is interested in Psychical Research will have
learned with deep regret of Dr. Crawford's tragic and untimely
death.
25G Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1920.
With tte possible exception of the late Sir William Crookes'
Besearches in Spiritualism,, which appeared nearly fifty years
ago, it is probable that no records o£ investigations into
"physical" phenomena have attracted so much attention
and aroused such widespread interest as Dr. Crawford's two
books on the subject. Even among the strictest sect of
those who unhesitatingly ascribe the great majority of psychic
phenomena to fraud and malobservation, it is very common
to find an exception made in favour of Dr. Crawford's work.
In the opinion of the present writer this attitude is well
justified, for whether future investigators succeed in confirming
Dr. Crawford's results or not, there can be no doubt that
his determination to use objective and quantitative methods
whenever possible invests his conclusions with a unique claim
to serious consideration.
This quantitative attitude, so to speak, was doubtless largely
due to his work as Lecturer in Mechanical Engineering at
the BeKast Municipal Technical Institute, which would naturally
incline him to investigate the fundamental mechanics of
the phenomena, before attempting to study their more abstruse
features. Such a procedure is clearly correct, and future
investigators wiU owe Dr. Crawford a debt of gratitude for
having given them definite experiments to repeat and a
definite working hypothesis to test as soon as, and if, they
succeed in eliminating fraud from the cases they encounter.
This alone would constitute a valuable contribution to the
study of this branch of Psychical Research, while if the
experiments are successfully repeated and the working hypo-
thesis confirmed, Dr. Crawford's work will undoubtedly tstkfi
rank as one of the classical researches of modern times.
It would be idle to deny that certain critics, especially
those who have neither seen the phenomena nor closely studied
Dr. Crawford's accounts of them, will now attempt to dismiss
them as fraudulent. This is inevitable for reasons quite
apart from the intrinsic merits of the case, and it is very
unfortunate that it never proved practicable, during Dr.
Crawford's lifetime, to arrange for thorough independent
observation of his principal results.
The present writer repeatedly urged Dr. Crawford to arrange
for something of the kind, even at the cost of suspending
Nov., 1920. In Memoriam : Dr. W. J. Gratvford. 257
his experimental work, and pointed out that although he
(Dr. C.) and many of those who had been present at demon-
stration seances might have no doubt as to the genuineness
of the phenomena, the general scientific public could scarcely
be expected fuUy to share in this conviction unless some
collateral support in the shape of independent verification
were forthcoming.
It is very greatly to be hoped that some such independent
check may yet be applied in order to expedite the assessment
of Dr. Crawford's work at its true value.
In the meantime even the most captious critic must admit
the unique quality of that work and deplore the loss of so
enthusiastic and ingenious a student of the subject.
w. w. s.
A FOOTNOTE
To Dr. T. W. Mitchell's Review of the Doris Case in the
S.P.E. Proceedings for May, 1920.
By Walter Franklin Prince, Ph.D.
In common with other readers, I was interested in Dr.
Mitchell's careful and sagacious study of the Doris Case of
multiple personality. In the main I am sympathetic with
his opinions, and would not have what I am to say regarded
as a " reply," " defence," or anything but a courteous explana-
tion, from my point of view, of a few details on which we
somewhat differ. For convenience I cite his pages.
I quite agree that at the time I was an amateur in hyp-
notism (32-33) though hardly so at the present time. The
reviewer's interpretation of the result of my suggestions is
my own. There was never any idea that Sleeping Margaret's
directions were the only ones which could have been followed
successfully, nor that she, whether personality, spirit or sub-
conscious stratum, was a scientist or trained physician.
But did I habitually hypnotize the girl ? (49-51) My opinion
may be reached by a series of questions. Do I hypnotize
myself when I put myself to sleep by suggestion, as I often
do ? Is a person who falls asleep without suggestion, spon-
taneously, hypnotized ? Yet the same after effects were as
258 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1920.
readily produced by talking to her in the first stage of spon-
taneous sleep as when I aided its approach by suggestion.
(See case of July 4, 1913.) Was she hypnotized when sugges-
tion was employed in the daytime not for the purpose of
inducing sleep 1 True, there was between us "at all times
the same rapport as exists between the hypnotist and his
patient," but will Dr. Mitchell contend that she was at all
times in hypnosis ?
Certainly all these phenomena are related to each other, but
they are not all hypnosis. Exactly as Dr. Mitchell finds that
certain helpful effects as well as hurtful ones result from dissociation,
but does not regard them all as deserving the name of hysteria.
It is really a question of words, of names, between Dr. Mitchell
and me. He uses the word hypnotism in a wider sense than I do.
I consider that there is a borderland before one reaches the boundary
line beyond which hypnosis plainly lies, and that sleep which in
no way seems to difier from ordinary sleep except that its
advent v/as assisted by suggestion does not lie beyond the
boundary. There can be no question that there was a limit
at which I stopped. I did not wish that other personalities
should artificially be produced as appears to have been the
case with Miss Beauchamp. I avoided the hypnotic stunts
of dividing and blending practised by Dr. Morton Prince.
This is what is principally meant by the statement that I
abstained from hypnotizing Doris, though my language might
have been better guarded.
It is stated (34) that Sleeping Margaret dominated me,
and Dr. Mitchell is " inclined to think that she was my
commander-in-chief." I am inclined to think that the
reviewer yielded to the temptations of a humorous phrase.
It should be evident from the Report that I had but one
great object in view—the cure of the case—and that I was
continually observing and experimenting, and shaping my
course accordingly. Whatever worked well there was willing-
ness to adopt and whatever worked ill was discarded. Aside
from all questions of Sleeping Margaret's nature, it was found
that she was the source of much information that could not
otherwise be obtained, and that it usually paid to try out
her suggestions. I was perfectly aware that the advisabiUty
might be self-induced, but that made no difference in the
Nov., 1920. A Footnote to the Boris Case. 259
policy to be pursued. If to heed the teachings of experience
was to constitute her my " commander-in-chief," then she
was that by the definition. But probably most readers will
not consider my own term, " chief coadjutor," as defective.
Nor do I suppose that Dr. Mitchell would have cormseUed
another course. It should be remembered that this long-seated
and compHcated case, of whose recovery the records of
dissociation gave no hope, was cured. I never supposed that
Sleeping Margaret was infaUible, but even if regarded only as
a means of promoting tranquillity and a favourable soil for
fruitage, it was best to consider well what she said.
It should be noted that the Eeport, long as it is, is nearly
all devoted to the objective facts and such explications as
would make them vmderstood as facts, in order that students
might have in possession a laboratory in which to work out
their own conclusions. I philosophized and dogmatized very
little, and thus am open here and there to the suspicion that
I was more naive than really was the case,—that I was
committed to every surface-appearance of things described.
I expected that the identification of " Sleeping Real Doris
"
as a separate though inchoate personality would be regarded
as "on grounds perhaps inadequate " (.35). I would not have
been entirely convinced had I been in the reviewer's place,
and am confident that had the reviewer witnessed all that
I witnessed in that richness which is not quite communicable,
he would have had no misgivings. " This beHef was con-
firmed by Margaret," (35) but that is not all. She " con-
firmed " it before she knew that I had any such behef. But
.that is only a detail in the evidence.
There is no inconsistency in sapng in one place that Sleeping
Margaret impressed me "as if she were a woman of forty,"
and in another that " she is at least as mature as R. D. is."
The first was my full impression, the second a very cautious
statement, allowing a wide margin.
It is a somewhat amusing surprise to find that after writing
1400 pages in an effort to tell everything more minutely than
anything was ever told before I should be suspected of con-
cealing something about Real Doris (38-39). It is said that
in the Report she is " elusive," that her characteristics are
not revealed so fully as those of the other personalities, and
260 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1920.
that I was " blinded " to the fact that the Real Doris of
my account does not win readers as Margaret does. It was
no part of my purpose to make readers like this or that
personality, as I was not writing a novel. But I concealed
nothing. It simply was not necessary to give minute descrip-
tions of Real Doris's conduct, it was so nearly normal. If a
once normal lamb grew two heads, six legs and various
other abnormalities, it surely would be in order to describe
all these minutely, but it would not be necessary to set
down every particular item of description regarding the normal
lamb. Pages 142-145 in the Report contain a faithful and
adequate description of Real Doris. Of com-se when Margaret
was near the surface and actually influencing the conduct,
there were corresponding shadings. There are plenty of brief
notices throughout the Record which, if taken altogether,
amount to a description of her. If she had displayed " many
hysterical stigmata " I would have detailed them, as I did
in the case of Sick Doris, who was a typical hysteric.
When my reviewer quotes that Sleeping Margaret " appeared
to be a highly analytical and philosophical mind," (63) he
should have added that she expressly disclaimed reasoning
out the abstruse and difficult propositions which she sometimes
announced and that there developed evidence that she spoke
truly—that in some sense she simply described what she saw.
Passing over the good-natured though painful thrust that
I was " not trained in the methods of science," which is not
correct unless training in a laboratory is meant, we come
to the statement that " in the earher records " I was " un-
biassed " (68) but that later I was " undoubtedly more favour-
ably incUned towards the spiritistic hypothesis." This seems
to imply that my mind was evenly balanced so long as I
was hostile to, or at least determined to exhaust every
" normal " hypothesis before admitting the possibility of, a
spiritistic factor, but that the moment the evidence made
me admit, tentatively, the existence of that factor, I became
biassed. As a matter of fact I was not fully convinced of
such a factor to the end of the case, but simply wished to
be fair to the facts and let readers judge for themselves.
Nor is it quite proper to say that I " had to admit " that
certain seemingly telepathic incidents were not conclusive in
Nov., 1920. A Footnote to the Doris Case. 261
themselves, (65) since I calmly asserted this, and it was not
wrung from me as an admission. I did not particularly
care whether telepathy was involved or not. And my point
in saying that these incidents should be read in the light
of others lay in the fact that others were stronger. Dr.
MitcheU cited one of these, and another and more complex
example, which he did not cite, is that of the graveyard.
I would not admit that any imaginable single case of alleged
telepathy could be conclusive by itself. But I see no way
to explain several incidents in the Report on normal lines.
Why he picked out the Adelaide " and " Marie " incidents
(67-69), which are weak cases, I do not know.
The reviewer finds it " difficult to explain " why one rises
from the Report " almost ready to believe that Sleeping
Margaret is a spirit " (69). I nowhere say that she is ; it
must be the magic of the facts reported which produces the
pecuhar efJect.
Dr. Mitchell cites certain contradictions between Sleeping
Margaret's earher statements and her later ones when she
claimed to be a spirit (70). But he neglects the frequent
earlier remarks which articulated better with the later claims,
and which seemed to cause her embarrassment when she
became conscious of their imphcations. It is easy for the reader
to suppose that she put on the appearance for a deep and
dark purpose, but I studied her for years and am certain
that this was not the case. Whatever she really was, her
later claim was made in good faith, and in the earlier period
she was practising evasion for some purpose.
How it ever was found out that I was " not a httle per-
turbed by the mendacity " of the secondary personaUties (73)
I cannot fathom. The detail in which these mendacities
were set forth, and the interest displayed in discovering the
categories in which they arranged themselves, might as well
have imphed enthusiasm. And why should I have been
" tired of reiterating that Real Doris was absolutely truthful
"
when that was a fact of large and recurrent importance ?
The reviewer has not been successful in his estimates of
my emotions in the course of writing the Report, the principal
actual one having been the desire to present a faithful picture
of the facts in their proper perspective.
262 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1920.
But lie had a complex subject and a voluminous mass of
material to deal with, and I would be the first to acknowledge
the merits of his excellent paper.
CASE.
An Apparition seen after Death.
The following case is one in which an apparition was twice
seen by two independent witnesses in a place which the
dead man had frequented during his hfe. The apparition
was first seen about a year after death and again about
three years later. The names and addresses of all the persons
concerned are known to the Society, but we have been asked
to use pseudonyms here.
The first account was sent to us by a member of the
Society of many years' standing, who wrote to the Hon.
Research Officer thus :
December 9, 1919.
I am enclosing you a letter which with the story I shall relate
will, I hope, interest you.
My cousin, Canon [Hopkinson] was Rector of L , about five
miles from here. It is a family living and he was Rector for
many years, but died suddenly in (I think) 1914, about a year
after I came to W . His successor was a Mr. [Middleton],
who went to live at the Rectory, and the enclosed is from Mrs.
[Middleton]. I was at a neighbouring parish on November 26,
and the wife of the Vicar told me thai. Canon [Hopkinson]
had been seen since his death by Mrs. [Middleton] and the
caretaker at the church ; that the caretaker had seen him in
his surplice by the altar rails and did not know who it was
till she got up to him, and that he turned and spoke to her
and said : "I am glad to see you are still doing your old work."
I at once wrote to Mrs. [Middleton] whom I do not know person-
ally . . . and the enclosed letter is her reply.
You will note that she did not know the caretaker had seen
anything, till I wrote.
I have not seen the caretaker, but could easily do so.
Would you care to come down one day and stay the night,
and I would take you to interview her ? . . .
J. Stevenson.
Nov., 1920. Case: An Apparition seen after Death. 263
The letter enclosed from Mrs. Middleton was as follows :
December 5, 1919.
Dear [Mr. Stevenson],
I am sorry not to have answered your letter before, but we
are mo\dng here and are not yet into our Rectory, and so have
been very busy. It is quite true that the woman who cleans
L Church and I have both seen Canon [Hopkinson], though
there was an interval of three years between, and. I never knew
that she had seen him until I got your letter and went to ask
her about it. Both times he was in a long white surpKce and
in the same place, she saw him at about 12.30 and I at about
4 p.m. I have never seen anybody before like that, and it
seemed only natural to me that he should be in the Church
that he was so fond of. —Believe me, Yours truly,
[M. Middleton].
In response to Mr. Stevenson's inAatation Mrs. Salter ^asited
L on March 16, 1920, and wrote the following report.
Mrs. Salter's Report.
On the afternoon of March 16, 1920, I visited the Parish
Church of L accompanied by Mr. Stevenson and the
present Rector. I was shown an entry in the Parish Book
(kept in the church) which ran as follows :
Sept. 6, 1919. At about 6 p.m. Jdrs. [Middleton] went down
to the church to see to the altar vases. When she entered
the door she saw Canon [Hopkinson] standing between the Rectory
and the Grange Pews. He was wearing a surplice and stole.
She was about to speak to him when he held ujj his right hand
as if to prevent her speaking. He then disappeared. She did
not feel at all frightened. [R. Middleton i].
I then went on to see the caretaker, whom I wiU call Mrs.
James, and obtained from her an account of her experience.
She told me that she saw Canon Hopkinson sitting on " the
children's seats in the middle aisle opposite the door." She
had unlocked the door when she came in. He was wearing
a long white robe. Her first idea was that he was someone
come to conduct a serAdce, though she was rather surprised
to see anyone in the church. He got up when she came in
1 Mrs. Middleton's husband, then Rector of L .
264 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1920.
and spoke to her " in a very quiet voice," and she recognised
him at once. He said he was glad she had got the church
work to do, and told her not to tell any one that she had
seen him. He then passed her and went out of the church
turning, down the path towards his grave. This happened
about 4 p.m. in August or September, about a year after
Canon Hopkinson died.
I asked Mrs. James whether there was anything unusual
in Canon Hopkinson's appearance, and she said " only that
he looked as if he hadn't shaved lately." Since Canon
Hopkinson habitually wore a beard and, according to what
Mrs. James said, was seen by her wearing a beard, the meaning
of this remark of hers was not clear. On being further
questioned on this point she said that he " looked rather
black round the mouth."
Mrs. James told her story very simply and straightforwardly.
She did not seem anxious to make it sensational or striking
in any way. She said she had not spoken of her experience
at the time, except to her daughter who lives with her. She
had had no similar experiences before. Mrs. James's daughter
was present during our interview, and corroborated her mother's
statement. H. de G. Salter.
We give below a plan (not drawn to scale), showing the
approximate position of the apparition as seen (a) by Mrs.
Middleton, (6) by Mrs. James :
) I
Grange
Vestry. Pews.
J B
Rectory
Pews.
?5
A. Boor by which both Mrs. Middleton and Mrs. James entered the
church, and by which the apparition was seen by Mrs. James
to leave the church.
B. Place at which the apparition was seen by Mrs. Middleton
" between the Rectory and the Grange Pews."
C. Place at which the apparition was .seen by Mrs. James sitting
in " the children's seats."
Nov., 1920. Case: An Apparition seen after Death. 265
It will be observed that the statement made to Mr. Steven-
son (see his letter above) that Mrs. Middleton saw the appari-
tion near the altar was not correct, nor was Mrs. Middleton
correct in her recollection (some months after the event)
that she saw the apparition at 4 p.m. According to Mr.
Middleton's contemporary record in the Parish Book she saw
the apparition at " about 6 p.m." This discrepancy, however,
does not appear to have much importance ; at 6 p.m. (summer
time), which was 5 p.m. (Greenwich time) on September 6, 1918,
the light would be quite good. Mrs. James, according to
her own statement, saw the apparition " at about 4 p.m." in
August or September. With regard to the possibiUty that
some effect of hght might have caused a visual illusion in
each case, it is to be noted that, although Mrs. Middleton
and Mrs. James saw the apparition in approximately the
same part of the church, they did not see it in the same
position. There seems no reason to suppose that an efEect
of hght which might produce the illusion of a figure at point B
(on the plan) would also produce one at point C. With
regard to the identifying of the apparition, Mrs. James
was very famihar with Canon Hopkinson's appearance, having
seen him often during his lifetime. Mrs. Middleton had
never seen Canon Hopkinson during his hfetime, but knew
his appearance from photographs.
Mrs. Middleton is quite clear upon the point that she knew
nothing of Mrs. James's experience at the time that she
saw the apparition herself.
Canon Hopkinson died in the latter part of August, 1914.
CORRESPONDENCE.
On Evidence for Survival.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—In Mr, Gordon Milburn's " impersonal mind " I seem
to discover our old friend the " Cosmic Reservoir of Memories
"
under another guise. The idea is made superficially more plausible
by using the term " mind," although it is not clear how a " mind"
is to be conceived of, dissociated from any " person."
In the case of the " Cosmic Reservoir," it was very difficult
to imagine what the " selective agency " could be, apart from
266 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1920.
the difficulty of conceiving how and on what substance all
memories were imprinted
In the case of this supposititious " impersonal mind," it is
difficult to conceive what the nexus between it and the mind of
a living human being can be, and why and in what manner a
" desire " can be set up in an impersonal mind.
In these conceptions of Mr. Milburn we plunge into the realms
of metaphysics, and the Metaphysician wants to have it " both
ways '"
: when convenient the agency is impersonal, that is
to say, surely, blind and mechanical ; at another time it is
endowed with consciousness, desire, volition, and initiative, i.e. the
qualities that go to make up what we understand by an indivi-
dualized personality. Why should these qualities be " transient " 1
Although I am aware that the simple explanation is not neces-
sarily the correct one, I must say that I prefer, as a Working
Hypothesis, the theory that the real personality survives death,
and under certain conditions can and does communicate with
persons still on earth.
The " impersonal mind," together with the " transient impersonal
centres,"! recall Prof. Wm. James' conception of a " cosmic
reservoir, where the memory of all mundane facts is stored
and grouped around personal centres of association." Mr. Henry
Holt, in commenting on this, remarks that his mind is not
subtle enough to be very seriously impressed by the difference
between a " memory of mundane facts stored and grouped aroimd
personal centres of association " and a surviving personality.
There is, however, another point and a very important one :
a personality does not consist merely of a train of memories, and
many communications reveal peculiarities of expression, modes
of thought, and traits of character, which although possibly
modified to some extent by the new environment, are perfectly
recognizable, and which must receive explanation under any
hypothesis.
This point has never received due recognition, although Mr.
Henry Holt, in his book On the Cosmic Relations, states that to
him it was just those expressions of personality, the " initiative,
response, repartee, and emotional and dramatic elements " that
carried conviction of identity, more so even than the imparting
supernormally of so-called " evidential " information.
C. E. Baddeley.
Nov., 1920. Reviews. 267
REVIEWS.
L'Energie Spirituelle, Essais et Conf6rences. Par Henri Bergson.
Cinquieme edition. Paris, 1920.
In this volume M. Bergson has collected various addresses
delivered, or essays published, by him in the years 1901 to
1913, and among them his address as President of the Society
for Psychical Research in the latter year. In some of the articles
will be found fuller treatment of some topics referred to in that
address. For this reason, and because almost all the subjects
treated of bear directly or indirectly on the work in which our
Society is engaged, the volume should be of great interest to
our members. We may add also because in several articles the
work of our Society is referred to.
The book is written throughout in M. Bergson's delightfully
clear and beautiful style, which makes it a pleasure to read
all he writes even apart from its philosophical value ; and the
treatment of a subject of limited scope in each article requires
of the reader less wide and continuous grasp of philosophical
problems than is the case with M. Bergson's larger works, and
thus brings his reasoning more within the grasp of the general
reader. This is of course especially the case with those addresses
written for popular audiences. A more difficult but very sugges-
tive essay is the one on the feeling of having previously lived
through exactly the present experience
—" Le souvenir du present
et la fausse reconnaissance.'" A very interesting essay is the first
in the volume
—" La conscience et la vie.'' This was originally
a lecture delivered at Birmingham, and was published in English
in the Hihhert Journal for October, 1911. It has since been
somewhat enlarged and, if we mistake not, the later version
shows a distinct advance in the appreciation of the grounds for
believing in survival. Certainly the view is taken in it that,
granting the author's premisses, conservation and even intensifica-
tion of personality are possible and even probable "
(p. 28)
after the disintegration of the body. And he expresses a confid-
ence in the possibility of discovering more about the life beyond,
which should be very encouraging to those who are particularly
interested in that department of the Society's work. " S"il y a
pour les consciences un au-dela," he says (p. 29), " je ne vois
pas pourquoi nous ne decouvrions pas le moyen de I'explorer.
268 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1920.
Rien de ce qui concerne riiomme ne saurait se derober de parti
pris a rhomme."
A translation of this book into English by Dr. Wildon Carr
was published last year.
II. Is Sjnritualism based on Fraud ? the Evidence of Sir A. Conan
Doyle and others drastically examined. By Joseph McCabe.
1920. Pp. V, 160. London : Watts & Co.
In this volume Mr. Joseph McCabe sets out in his usual vigorous
and slashing style to castigate the devoted] adherents of the
spiritualistic faith and incidentally to cast scorn upon the more
serious side of psychical research. If the writer's intention was
to remind the unthinking public that fraud is common in psychical
phenomena he has probably succeeded in his task, but to the
serious student the book will be found to be of little interest.
Mr. McCabe is at pains to expose the arguments and pretensions
of j^ersone whose acquaintance with the subject is such that they
easily lend themselves to the most crushing replies. But he
himself cannot be said to be over accurate. For example, on
page 33, speaking of the Turin sittings, he says that Linda
Gazzera being a lady and a good Catholic could not of course
be stripped and searched, whereas Prof. Richet distinctly says
with reference to these very sittings that before every seance
she was completely undressed by Mme. R. or by another of the
ladies present and then re-clothed in ianother tight-fitting garment.
Again, it was not Schrenck-Notzing who sewed Linda in a sack
but Dr. Charpentier, an error indicating that the author's state-
ments must be taken with due reserve. It would indeed be a
thankless task to point out the many mistakes and misrepresenta-
tions with which the book abounds. In actual omissions the
facts are even more curious. Thus the S.P.R. Report on Eusapia
Palladino is silently passed over and space^ given to the farcical
American sittings. Such celebrated mediums as Mile. Tomczyk,
Mrs. Blake, Miss Burton and Mrs. Chenoweth, are not even so
much as mentioned, the reader being denied the pleasure of
hearing their full modus operandi exposed by Mr. McCabe. For
those, however, who wish to revise their knowledge of the fraudu-
lent side of spiritualism the book may be confidently recommended
as a useful addition to the material already existing. It could
certainly be profitably read by those persons who are only too
apt to forget the mass of shameless deception which has unfortun-
ately been so often associated with psychical phenomena. E. J. D.
No. COCLXX.—Vol. XIX. December, 1920.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
FURTHER DONATIONS TOWARDS THE INCREASED COST
OF PRINTING.
Mrs. Franks (annual) - - - - £1 1 0
Mi.ss I. Newton - - - - - 3 3 0
£4 4 0
CASE.
L. 1228.
Three Deeams giving Evidence of Knowledge
supernormally acquired.
The following report of three dreams was sent to us at the
suggestion of Dr. William M'Dougall, the dreamer having re-
cently been a member of his psychology classes at Oxford.
The names and addresses of all those concerned are known to
us, but pseudonyms are used here.
We give first Mrs. Munro's account of her experiences, with
such corroborative statements as we have been able to obtain,
thus :
In Oct. 1911 we were living in the city of Anking, in the
province of Anhuei, China, which is 250 miles from Hankow on
the River Yang-tsi opposite Wuchang, where the Chinese Revolu-
tion commenced. Six or seven years before we had lived in this
latter city, and the country round was familiar. Exactly one
week before the date of the Revolution, I woke in the middle of
the night with what I supposed was a bad nightmare. I saw
crowds of Chinese on a certain hill outside Wuchang fighting
desperately with firearms, and I was in the midst of the din and
slaughter trying to escape. I woke up in a state of terror, and
270 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1920.
could not shake off the impression of coming disaster of some
kind, the fighting had been so fierce. Feeling ill as though from
a shock, I woke my husband and told him of the dream. After
a time I slept again, but on waking in the morning was still
haunted by the feeling that something dreadful had happened,
and I could not shake it off throughout the day. I had no
feeling the dream might come true. Up to that time there had
been no hint of any trouble known to the general public, and we
in Anking had certainly heard nothing, but just one week after
the dream the Chinese Revolution broke out in Wuchang. This
naturally made a great impression on my mind, but when three
months later BiShop Roots from Hankow, the bishop of the diocese,
showed me a photograph with the remark " This was where the
first shot of the Revolution was fired," I felt stunned as I recog-
nised the very spot I had seen in my dream where the fighting
was taking place.
No corroboration of this incident is now obtainable. Its
interest lies in the fact that Mrs. Munro clearly identified the
scene of her dream as the hill upon which Bishop Roots
afterwards told her that the first shot had been fired. She
repeated this statement in conversation with Mrs. Salter, saying
that she had been quite familiar with the place during her
residence at Wuchang. Even if some rumour of the impending
revolution had reached Mrs. Munro (which she does not believe
to be the case), it is curious that she should, in her dream
have pictured the fighting in the place where it actually began.
If the dream had a supernormal origin, it was presumably
telepathic ;
many people must have known at the time of the
dream that the revolution was imminent and where the trouble
was likely to begin.
Mrs. Munro's Statement.
The next event happened during the winter of 1914. A con-
ference had been arranged to take place in Anking, and amongst
those ex|)ected to be present was the late Dr. Jackson, President
of Boone University of Wuchang. In making the arrangements
for entertainment he had been allotted to me and I had written
to him asking him to stay with us, but owing to pressure of
work he had been obliged to refuse. Two weeks later, when the
Conference had been in session three days, I woke at about
Dec, 1920. Case : Three Dreams. 271
2 o'clock in the morning after a very vivid dream. I had heard
Dx. Jackson knocking and calling at the outer gate of the Com-
pound which was 300 yards from our house. There were build-
ings between, and the wooden Venetian shutters of our room were
closed. At that distance it would have been quite imposvsible to
have heard anyone knocking and calling, and to this all in the
house agreed the following day. I woke with such a strong
impression that he was there wanting admittance, that without a
moment's thought I roused my husband and told him Dr. Jackson
was at the gate and he must get up and let him in. He jumped
up and half asleej) opened the shutters, and it was only then
I realised it was only a dream. I apologised most humbly and
said it was a nightmare, expecting him to return at once to bed
rather wrathy ! But he saw a Chinese lantern moving in the
distance, and as the minutes jjassed he realised there was someone
coming across the Compound. He waited till they were within
calling distance, and then shouted to know who was there. The
answer came in Chinese Dr. Jackson." My husband turned to
me in amazement and asked, How did you know Dr. Jackson
was coming ?
" I could only answer " I didn't know." Dr.
Jackson had sent a telegram we found later, but it was not
delivered till the following afternoon. —
We have received the following corroboration of this incident
from Dr. R , who was a guest in Mrs. Munro's house at
the time :
October 22, 1920.
I hereby testify that I remember perfectly the incident de-
scribed by Mrs. [Munro] as occurring in Anking in the winter
of 1913-4. I was a guest in her house at the time, occupying
the room originally prepared for Dr. Jackson, and remember well the
bustle caused by his arrival in the dark of the morning, and the
excitement roused by the story of her " dream," which made a
great impression on us all.
[L. B. R.]
In this case Mrs. Munro's impression would appear to have
been due either to telepathy from Dr. Jackson, or possibly to
hyperaesthesia. But in this latter case the degree of hyper-
aesthesia would seem to have been considerable.
272 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dkc, 1920.
Mrs. Munro's Statement.
On the night of Oct. 26th, 1917, I had a dream about my son
who was in Palestine. I thought I saw him in what appeared
to be a tent, when suddenly he jumped up and put both hands
to his forehead. I realised at once that he was hit, and looked
round for a doctor. At the same time I felt it was hopeless.
When I turned to him again I saw him as he was at the age
of 11 or 12. Someone called out It's the ice-cream he has
eaten which has caused congestion of the forehead." At this
I wakened up feeling very ill and fearing that something serious
had happened to him. My heart was beating rapidly and my
j)ulse was much above normal. I got no more sleep that night,
and by 8 o'clock I was so ill the doctor had to be sent for. He
found the pulse 130 and the heart in a very bad condition, and
asked if I had had any shock. I told him of the dream, and he
said it was quite sufficient to account for my condition, but tried
to reassure me. He reminded me that the last letter from my
son a few days previously had told us he was in Cairo and had
joined the Air Force, and the natural anxiety I had been feeling
with regard to the dangers of this branch of the service had been
preying on my mind and was quite enough to account for the
dream. I had not consciously been worrying about his taking
this step ; in fact, as far as I could say, I had felt relieved.
The doctor kept me in bed till Wednesday, and then as we had
had an invitation to town for the week-end he urged us to accept
it, as he thought the change would benefit me.
[There follows an account of an incident which occurred after
dinner on November 2, 1917, and appears to show that both
Mrs. Munro and those who were with her had a strong impression
that her son had been killed, as was in fact the case. But since
the incident is of a personal and subjective nature and very
difficult to put upon an evidential footing, it is omitted here.]
We returned to Cowes, and on Tuesday we received a telegram
from the War Office saying our son had been killed in action on
November 2nd. We received particulars later : "he was hit
through the forehead with a rifle bullet while crossing over our
parapet at the head of his men " . . .
" he lived for an hour,
but was totally unconscious."
[M. E. Munro.]
Dec, 1920. Case: Three Dreams. 273
We have received the following corroborative statement
(addressed to Mrs. Munro) from the doctor who, as mentioned
above, attended her on the day after her dream :
June 6, 1920.
Dear Mrs. [Munro],— ... I quite recollect your telling me of
your dream about your son and the circumstances affecting your
condition on the occasion of my first professional visit. The
details I do not think you mentioned, but I believe you said that
he had been either shot or woimded, and I can definitely recollect
my trying to reassure you by saying that the last letter from
your son was to the effect that he was in Cairo, and had been
accepted for the Flying Corps. I don't fancy you told me these
particulars just at first, but merely that you had had a bad
dream and woke up much frightened or upset, in reply to my
question as to an exciting cause of your heart attack. . . .
E. S.
In a letter dated July 2.3, 1920, Mrs. Munro wrote to us as
follows :
. . . My boy when quite small could never properly enjoy
ice-cream, because he always said it gave him a pain in the
forehead. Dragging this into my dream seemed to me to be a
clever subterfuge on the part of the unconscious, for even in my
dream it was quite unconvincing. s
My husband can corroborate all I wrote to Dr. M'Dougall. He
read it over very carefully befoie 1 sent it.
We have received the following general corroboration from
Mr. Munro :
October 25, 1920.
I have read over carefully the three accounts of experiences
narrated by my wife, Mrs. M, E. [Munro], which were submitted
recently to Dr. Wm. M'Dougall, Corpus Christi College, Oxford. I
have also read Dr. S 's letter which refers to the same subject.
I hereby testify to the accuracy of the narratives dealing with
these experiences. W. [Munro].
If Mrs. Mumo's dream about her son had a supernormal
origin, it would seem to imply precognition. Mrs. Munro
274 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1920.
repeated to Mrs. Salter her statement that she was not in
any special anxiety about her son at the time. She had
hoped that his transfer to the Flying Corps, of which she had
lately had news, would mean that for a time at least he
would be comparatively safe. Her son had been at the front
for a considerable period, and she had had no similar impres-
sion about him before.
NOTES ON RECENT PERIODICALS.
I.
Amongst recent publications issued by the more serious students
of psychical research, the March number of the American
Proceedings is especially important. Those members of our
own Society who are wise enough to follow the material
published by the American group will remember that in the
third part of the eighth volume of the American Proceedings
an article appeared on " Some Unusual Phenomena in Photo-
graphy." The photographs in question had been offered for
consideration by a Mrs. Marguerite du Pont Lee, a lady of
some means and well known in Washington, D.C., where
she Vv^as at that time living. Amongst otlier interesting photo-
graphs, which have not yet been explained, occurred a series
of pictures in which figured the features of a certain Rev.
Kemper Bocock, who died, in 1904 and of whom two photo-
graphs only are kno'wn to have been taken when he was alive.
Mrs. Lee was intimately associated in the taking of the alleged
supernormal pictures with a person calling himself " Dr."
AVilliam Keeler, a medium who was believed by Dr. Richard
Hodgson to be fraudulent, and who asserts that he took spirit
photographs for Prof. Hare who died in 1858. Mrs. Lee
herself was puzzled as to the origin of the pictures, and was
inclined to believe that they were supernormal, as she says,
like so many other sitters for these phenomena, that in many
cases the plates never left her hands for an instant. To
cut matters short, the mass of material at length found its
way into the office of the American Society, and in the
" Supplementary Report on the Keeler-Lee Photographs
"
Dec, 1920. Notes on Recent Periodicals. 275
Dr. Walter Prince has published a masterly analysis and
complete exposure of these fraudulent productions.
By all those who concern themselves with the study of
supernormal pictures Dr. Prince's paper will be foimd to be
of exceptional interest. He shows that in every instance the
spirit extra is unmistakably derived from the photographs
taken from life, and completely demolishes the foolish argu-
ment, now so common among spiritualists, that the extras are
in a sense memory pictures emanating from the mind of the
deceased. With the exception of certain minor divergences
the faces throughout the series are identical with those in
the two known life photographs. As Dr. Prince says, there
are " thousands of photographs of Mr. Bocock and not one
of them with face square to the front, exactly in profile or
turned two-thirds away in either direction. Thousands, and
whether he stands amid the wonders of Yosemite, or sits
at ease in some luxurious apartment, or addresses an audience
with uplifted hand, or plays a ^^.olin, or dances a dance
invented on earth since his departure, or endeavors to plant
a kiss on the lips of his fair partner (but with evident danger
to her ear)—in all he is resolved to preserve one or the other
of two facial angles, exact to the fraction of an inch ; in
all he maintains that '
keep-just-so-and-look-pleasant ' expres-
sion of the photographic studio ; he smiles not, exults not,
wonders not, grieves not, nor ever once opens his lips, but
is as if fixed in the calm of Buddha for ever. In one photo
he is addressing an audience with book in hand, but his
lips are closed and his face is looking cahnly over his right
shoulder at us. In others he is disclosed near waterfalls,
on giant crags, but he is not looking at or betraying any
interest in them. In another his arms encircle a lady most
convincingly, but his features show no appropriate rapture,
while his calm gaze passes her by utterly."
It is certainly all very curious, but the credulous wiU
naturally say that Mr. Bocock remembers his life portraits
and so keeps on repeating them ad infinitum. But, as Dr.
Prince so pertinently remarks, is it not remarkable " that
no such limitations attach to the hands which are found
photographed in almost every position ? Strange that spirit
agencies which can photograph hands clasped, hands in pockets,
276 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1920.
hands extended, hands gesticulating, hands playing the violin
or piano, hands guiding in the mazes of the dance, hands
with fingers outspread, hands clenched, hands in every con-
ceivable position, should not be able to turn the chin one
inch from its position in one or other of the two life photo-
graphs, or to part the lips in the slightest, in thousands of
pictures."
But enough of such sarcasm. The photographs, like so
many others passing amongst us, are obviously fakes, and
it is not surprising that " Dr." Keeler has always been averse
to any expert examination of his claims. Thus he refused
to allow the late Dr. Hyslop to be present under any condi-
tions at his sittings, and like other spirit photographers of
our acquaintance is chary of answering letters addressed to
him by competent investigators.
Dr. Prince is naturally scornful of the " recognized portraits
"
claimed by devout spiritualists, who discover them in any
vague smudges palmed off on them by the astute photo-
graphers, and he has little difficulty in disposing of the claims
of untrained observers who " never lose sight of their plates
even for an instant." The full story of how Keeler is found
by Dr. Prince to have forged the spirit scripts cannot be
dealt with here. We can only repeat our previous assertion
that the whole article is a masterly addition to existing material
on fraudulent spirit photographs and deserves the most careful
attention of all serious-minded students of this difficult subject.
E. J. D.
II.
The Report of the Conference of Bishops of the Anghcan
Communion held at Lambeth Palace during July and August,
1920, includes a statement by the Special Committee appointed
" to consider and report upon the Christian Faith in relation
to Spiritualism."
The Committee after distinguishing between " the investiga-
tions of the phenomena of human consciousness . . . carried
on notably by the Society for Psychical Research," and " the
religious cults and practices which have been created on the
basis of what is believed to have been discovered and known
Dec, 1920. Notes on Recent Periodicals. 277
as Spiritualism," goes on to pay a tribute to the work of
the Society in the following terms :
In answering the first question we sav without hesitation
that we welcome scientific investigation ; we recognize the patience
and the skill with which members of the Psychical Research
Society examine the mass of evidence of all kinds submitted
to them, and above all the unmistakable desire to safeguard
the inquiry against illusion or fraud, to arrive at truths, and to
interpret scientific facts correctly. . . . Our desire is to understand
what conclusions have been reached along these lines of research.
These have been stated as follows :
(1) There is a conviction of the reality of telepathy, or com-
munication between living beings by means which appear to
be independent of the normal sense-organs.
(2) There is also a conviction of the reality of a subconsciousness
which may operate without the control of the normal consciousness
and will {e.g. in dreams).
(3) This does not necessarily imply communication with beings
no longer limited by the conditions of bodily existence as we
know it here ; but there are phenomena which appear to support
that hypothesis.
(4) In investigating such phenomena gxeat difficulties arise
owing to the play, very imperfectly understood, of the sul>
conscious self in the medium employed and in the enquirer.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick writes :
" Before we can convince the
world we not only want more cases giving evidence of the fact
of personal survival but we want them solidly based on more
knowledge of the subliminal self and the way it works, more
knowledge of the conditions and process of telepathy, more
understanding of the limitations under which communication
with the dead occurs."
The outcome of these conclusions from the scientific side would
seem to be :
(1) To give a serious warning against unregulated and undue
exercise of an element of human consciousness which acts inde-
pendently of the reason and the will, and against allowing reason
and will to abdicate in its favour.
(2) To insist upon an outlook ujjon life which refuses to accept
278 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1920.
materialism as a sufficient account of phenomena, and to en-
courage belief in a spiritual explanation.
We welcome inquiry conducted in this reverent and scrupulous spirit.
III.
The second numlber of the Psychic Research Quarterly'^
(October, 1920) contains several articles of much interest to
the student of psychical research. The late Dr. W. J. Craw-
ford discusses the psychic structures observed in the presence
of Miss Kathleen Goligher, of Belfast. Dr. Crawford relates
how after many months it was found possible to make these
" psychic structures " visible, and his article includes several
photographs of the plasma, from which, according to Dr.
Crawford's theory, are made the " psychic rods " by means of
which the levitations and other physical phenomena associated
with Miss Goligher's mediumship take place. This " plasma
"
would appear to present analogies with the " substance
"
observed in the case of " Eva C.'s " mediumship, a point,
which, if it could be clearly established, would be of con-
siderable interest and importance.
Mr. Kenneth Richmond •
contributes to the number an
article on " the powers of the unconscious " in which he
considers how the discoveries made by modern methods of psycho-
analysis may be turned to account to investigate the phenomena
of so-called " trance-mediumship." Dream analysis, he says,
should be of value in diagnosing imconscious fraud in sensitives ;
and the conscientious sensitive, to whom unconscious fraud is
the greatest of bugbears, should especially welcome this method
of criticism. ... I have given special attention to the analysis
of certain, muddled, unsuccessful sittings with professional sensi-
tives . . . , in order to search out any evidence of conscious
or unconscious fabrication. . . .
I could not discover, in their worst muddles, any sign of
fabrication or fraud. At their best they gave evidence of one
class or another ; at their w^orst they gave what I can only
describe as honest confusion.
The number also contains (amongst others) articles on
The Evidence for Telepathy : an Historical Survey, by E. R.
Dodds, and Evidential Matter of Practical Importance, by
(Una) Lady Troubridge.
^ Kegan Paul, Trench, Tiubner & Co., Ltd. Price, 3/6 net.
Dec, 1920 Correspondence. 279
CORKESPONDENCE.
I. CONCEENING " A CASE OF PSYCHOMETRY ?
"
To the Editor of the Jourxal or the S.P.R.
Dear Madam,—With reference to the incident in connection
with the Statuette of Nefer Smaa recounted on -page 230 of the
July Journal, I venture to call your attention to a fact which
may possibly have escaped your notice, as it also appears to
have escaped that of Mr. H. S. Cowper. Plutarch, in his life
of Solon, gives the name of the Priest of Sais who told Solon
the story of Atlantis. He is there called Sonchis. I have not
the Greek text by me, and can only refer you to North's transla-
tion, page 328 in the Temple Classics Edition. Possibly an
Egyptologist might be able to suggest the hieroglyphic original of
Sonchis, but it cannot (I imagine) be the same as that which
Mr. Cowper transliterates as Nefer Smaa. As the interest of
Mr. Cowper's story hinges on the assumjDtion that Nefer Smaa
had something to do with the telling of the Atlantis story to
Solon, it would be interesting to know
:
(1) Whether there is any Egyptian record of the priests of
Sais at the period in question from which Sonchis " could be
identified.
(2) In what relation, as regards age, he stood to Nefer Smaa ?
The British Museum authorities might perhaps be able to help.
If they were contemporaries, and both Priests of Neith at the
same time, it would give additional weight to the supposition
that Nefer Smaa was anyhow present when Solon heard the story
of Atlantis.
G. W. Lambert.
Editorial Note.
With regard to the question raised by Mr. Lambert, Mr. Cowper,
to whom we forwarded Mr. Lambert's letter, wrote to Prof.
Flinders Petrie and received the following reply :
" Sonchis cannot have anything to do with Nefer Smaa.
There are no continuous records of the Saitie priesthood, only
stray figures like yours ; nor is there anything to fix the date
of your figure within a century or more."
280 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1920.
II. THE EXPERIMENTAL INVESTIGATION OF PSYCHO-
DYNAMIC PHENOMENA.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam, —The probability tliat opportunities for the systematic
investigation of sensitives purporting to produce psycho-dynamic
phenomena will occur in the future, may justify some remarks
on one aspect of these phenomena, which appears largely to have
been neglected both by investigators and their critics.
For example, in the case of Eusajna Palladino, controversy
centred itself chiefly on the question whether the control of the
limbs of the sensitive was adequate. It was tacitly assumed
—
both by the experimenters who asserted, and by the critics who
denied the sufiiciency of that control—^that if Eusapia could have
released a hand or a foot, a normal explanation for the pheno-
mena was at once available.
Thus Podmore wrote regarding the records of the S.P.R. Naples
sittings :
" Things did not, as a rule, happen outside of a moderate
radius—say, 3 feet—from Eusapia's person. In a word, if Eusapia
could have freed an arm, or a leg, she could have done every-
thing."
—
{The Newer Sjnritualism, p. 119.)
There is a clear fallacy in this statement. The effective radius
of hand grasp of a person of Eusapia's build, when seated upright
in a chair—and we may surely assume that, even under un-
satisfactory conditions of control and lighting, there could be
no doubt as to whether the sensitive was seated or not—could
hardly exceed 2 feet.
In spite of reasoned arguments such as those of Richet in
connection with the 1894 sittings, critics will continue to maintain
that no control which is based on the tactile perceptions of the
sitters can be adequate.
It would seem, therefore, that the chief point on which attention
should be concentrated in any future experiments, is the accurate
observation as to whether any phenomena occur, which could
not have been produced by the sensitive through the normal agency
of her limbs, even if those limbs were free.
In the case of Eusapia the records—even those of tlie S.P.R.
Naples sittings—contain many phenomena which appear to comply
with tins condition, and the same is true of the Belfast experi-
ments.
Dec, 1920. Gorrespondence. 281
The practical application of these remarks to auy series of
sittings would be somewhat as follows :
(1) The Control—apart from initial and final examinations
—
need not go beyond the assurance that the sensitive does not
move, or move from, her chair, an assurance easily obtained
even in darkness.
(2) The positions of all articles in the seance room forming, or
likely to form, subject matter for phenomena, should be accurately
measured before and after the seances and recorded on scale
drawings.
(3) After each sitting an " imitation " seance should be held,
in which the movements should be repeated, so that it could
be decided whether they were reproducible by normal muscular
means.
If it was found that some object was moved, or touched,
which was definitely beyond the reach of the sensitive, we should
have no alternative (the use of " apparatus " being excluded by
the initial and final examinations) but to admit that we had
observed a definite telekinetic phenomenon.
Fairly close measurement is needed, since the existing evidence
seems to show that telekinetic extensions (if such there be) do
not reach more than a short distance beyond the extremities
of the sensitive.
It is suggested that this method—in which control is concen-
trated more on the objects moved than on the ostensible mover
of them—is unlikely to upset the psychic equilibrium of the
sensitive. Also—and this is even more important—it relieves the
experimenters from the severe strain of continuous hand and
foot control.
It would be interesting to learn whether those members of the
Society, who have had such exceptional experience in the conduct
of these experiments, consider that the method which I have
roughly outlined offers any prospect of success.
G. E. Wright.
282 Journal of Society for Fsychical Research. Dec, 1920.
EEVIEWS.
I.
The Faith of a Quaker. By John W. Graham, M.A. Universitj
Press, Cambridge. 1920.
This book is of very high value for its author's purpose as
a history and philosophy of Quakerism. The story of the Society
of Friends from its foundation to the passing day, in which the
War has set their ideals and practice in a very clear light and
made their tenets a matter of pressing public concern, is told
with fulness of knowledge, with freshness of style, and with an
amiability of tone which very graciously commends the doctrine
it expounds. Headers of practical mind will probably turn first
to the long chapter on War (where, however, this reader fails
to find an answer to the all-important question, why it should
be right to resist a wild beast and wrong to resist a murderous
fellowman), but students of the philosophy of religion will find
much nutriment of thought in the sections on Ministry, Silent
Worship, and especially the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper ;
nor must the last chapter on Evangelicalism be omitted. But
for the specific purpose of this notice the fourth and fifth chapters
("The Living Christ " and " The Personality of Man ") are of
the most interest, for these are an endeavour to take up into
the religious philosophy of the Friends the results of recent
psychical research.
Briefly, the author adopts the hypothesis mooted by the late
Dr. Sanday "of an essential unity after all between the Divine
and the Human (in Jesus Christ), so that one whose outward
supraliminal life was wholly the product of heredity and terrestrial
evolution might yet have a subliminal or hidden man not so
different from our own as to destroy his fellowship with us,
but yet pure and right and divine without known defect." One
readily agrees that this conception is somewhere on the way
to the yet unverified truth of the relation of the Human Jesus
to the Divine Christ, the same yesterday, to-day, and forever.
The unity and continuity of all human consciousnesses with one
another is, for most of us who study the question, a fact estab.
lished by the phenomena of thought-transference ;
and the con-
tinuity of the human with the divine consciousness is an inference
which we draw with confidence if we believe that the universe
Dec, 1920. Reviews. 283
is one and " heaven and earth are threads of the same loom."
But that the subliminal influx into the individual mind is the
current of divine inspiration more than of mundane monitions
or even of evil suggestions is rendered most unlikely by the
fact that a man's individuality is the highest and most fateful
self of him, while the subliminal consciousness is that part of
his self which is least his own and is shared with his fellows.
If prophet and bard
When God made music through them could but speak,
His music by the framework and the chord,
it is through that which is most individual in the man, the
framework and chord of his nature, that the divine communica-
tion comes. However this be, we are grateful to our author
for a most suggestive enquiry into '"
the imity between the
historic Jesus of Nazareth and the Indwelling Christ,'" for that
is the road, we are con\'inced, on which theology to-day has
most need to travel.
II.
Psychical Research for the Plain Man. By S. M. Kingsfoed. Kegan
Paul, London. 1920. Pp. vi-+-271. Price 6s. net.
Miss Eangsford tells us in her introduction that her aim in
producing this book has been to present "in an intelligible and
interesting form '
the evidence that seems to prove that super-
normal events have occurred.' In this aim a large measure
of success has undoubtedly been achieved.
The records of this Society have been largely drawn upon for
the evidential items, and, as far as interpretation and explanation
are concerned, the author has generally been content to quote
from the published opinions of our most experienced investigators.
The work of selection has been judiciously done. It is no
easy task to compile from the vast amount of matter contained
in the Proceedings and the Journal a collection of excerpts which
shall be both evidential and interesting to the ordinary reader.
Attention may, however, be drawn to one omission. Beyond
a passing reference to the Belfast experiments—contained, some-
what ina2:)propriately, in an excellent chapter on Poltergeists—no
space is devoted to what is to-day probably the most immedi-
ately important and potentially fruitful department of psychical
284 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1920.
research, namely, the investigation of para-psychic phenomena.
A synopsis of the activities of psychical research which ignores
the work done, both at home and abroad, on the investigation
of sensitives purporting to produce " physical " or " materializa-
tion " phenomena, can hardly be considered comprehensive.
It is probable that this omission is due to lack of space. It
is suggested, however, that a remark to this effect should have
been inserted in the preface ; and that in the next edition
—
which will, doubtless, soon be required—this should be done.
Students of psychical research will be surprised to find no
reference to the trance mediumshij) of Mrs. Piper or Mrs. Leonard.
This is due to the limitation which Miss Kingsford has imposed
upon herself ; the exclusion of cases connected with mediums
who receive payment." It would seem questionable whether
such a concession to popular prejudice is altogether well advised.
For it is of the first importance that any serious inquirer should
be led to appreciate, that the powers of subliminal (unconscious)
deception are so much greater than those of supraliminal (con-
scious) deception, that bona fides alone does not carry us very
far ; while suspicion of mala fides does not invalidate results
which comply with the only sure condition, namely that the
information given by the sensitive could not possibly have been
obtained by normal means.
The author might, however, contend—and with some force
—
that in a book of this sort concession to existing prejudices is
an indispensable preliminary to obtaining a hearing from the
" jury of the general public."
That this book will serve a useful purpose is abundantly clear.
There have been other attempts to present a summary of the
results of psychical research, but few, if any, in which that
presentation has been made so interesting and readable for the
general public.
G. E. W.
ERRATUM.
In the last number of the Journal (November 1920), on p. 265, the
date September 6, 1918, should read September 6, 1919 (cf. contem-
porary record quoted on p. 263.
Vol. XIX. of the Journal is concluded witli this ninnber.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. XIX.
1919—1920
A.
AccouKTS of Receipts and Expenditure. See Society for
Psychical Research.
Alleyne, John, Automatic Scripts of 235-236
Alrutz, Dr. S., - Problems of Hypnotism. Experimental Investi-
gations on Nervous Effluence and Telepathic Influence "
T , r
225, 237, 255
Am&v, Sxiiea, Le Moteur Humain,'Reievence to - - - -
102
Amazing, An, Seance and an Exposure ----- 76
American Agent, Appointment of 5^
American Society for Psychical Research, Proceedings of
, ,
127-129, 197, 274-276
Amherst Mystery, The Great "
127-128
Apparatus for measuring efforts and pressm-es - - .
102-103
" '> expenditure of energy - . . .
204
Apparitions at or near the time of death - - -
3, 39, 47 75 157
„ after death
'
Appeal for donations towards the increased cost of printing -
18-19
>' „ Response to
, ,
.
1^' 21, 38, 75, 15.3, 154-1.55, 183, 254, 269
Archives de Psychologic
233
Arkwright, Miss E., Case contributed by 3q
,, Miss S. M., Evidence collected by - - . .
30-32
Articles of Association. See Society for Psychical Research.
11 Index to Vol. XIX.
Ashley, Mrs., Evidence contributed by 9
Auditory Hallucination, Cases of 7, 30
Automatic communications - 71. 72, 112, 160-161, 235-236, 241
,, recording apparatus ..... 102-104
Automatism, Co-operative 66
„ Record of some Experiments in - - - .241
„ Series of quotations by means of - - - 160-161
„ of Speech, Case of 99-101
B.
Baddeley, Colonel C. E., On the Evidence for Svirvival - 265-266
,. On the methods and policy of the Society 147-148, 149
Bagot, Richard, " The Hyenas of Pirra " - - - - - 88, 91
Barrett, Sir W. F., F.R.S., In Memory of Sir WiUiam Crookes 109, 160
,, „ ,, On the policy and methods of the
Society - - - - 148-149
Barrows. Charles Mason, Obituary ----- . 58
Bayfield, Rev. M. A., On the methods of the Society - - 149-150
Review : F. Bligh Bond's T/ie fiTi^Z o/ Fision 235
,, J. Arthur Hill's Spiritualism, Its
History, Phe?iomena and Doc-
trine ----- 70
Beadon, Mrs., Case contributed by ----- - 226
Beavis, Dr. Charles, Evidence contributed by - - - - 9
BeUby, Sir George, F.R.S., Co-opted as Member of Council - 152
Benson, Mrs., Death of 20
Benton, William E., Man-Making from^ out of the Mists to beyond
the Veil, Review of ------- - 204
Beraud, Marthe. See " Eva C."
Bergson, Henri, UEnergie Spirituelle, Review of ... 267
,, „ Presidential Address, Reference to - - - 267
Biactinism, Use of the term - - - - - - - 210
" Billy " Incident, Criticism of, as evidence of survival - - 191
Reply by Miss Radclyffe-Hall 193-195
Reference to ..... 234, 235
Bocock, Rev. Kemper. See the Keeler-Lee photographs.
Boirac, Emile, Reference to - - - - - - 210, 215
Bond, F. Bligh, The Hill of Visio7i, Review of - - - - 235
" Book-tests " obtained through Mrs. Leonard - - 133, 152, 233
Boustead, Mrs., On the methods and policy of the Society 146-148
Bowyer-Bower, Captain E. W., Experiences connected with the
death of 39-46
„ Mrs., Evidence contributed by - 40-41, 43-44, 45-46
Bozzano, Ernesto. Dei Fenomeni d' Infestazione. Review of - 107
Bramwell, Dr. J. Milne, Retirement from the Council - 150, 154
Bredsdorff, Froken, Experiments in automatism - - 241-247
i
Index to Vol. XIX. iii
Bridgman, Miss H. M., Evidence contributed by - - - 6-7
" Brompton," Father, Case contributed by . . . . 84-87
Biu-chett, S. T., Account of the Indian Rope-trick - 125-126, 127
C.
" C, Eva." See " Eva C."
Carpenter, Bishop Boyd, Death of ------ 20
Carrington, Hereward, Ph.D., Case contributed by - - - 9
,, ,, Modern Psychical Phenomena, by,
Review of - - - - 252
„ ,, Psychical Phenomena and the War,
by, Review of - - - 92
Cases
—
L. - - - - - 3, 7, 30, 39, 47, 56, 76, 83, 138, 269
M. - - - 230
P. - - - - 99, 161, 186
Un-mmibered 95, 112, 226, 241, 262
Gases of "Phantasms of the Living'' which have appeared in the
Journal, A Discussion of - - - - - - - 181
Chance-coincidence and Guessing in a Medivmiistic experiment - 127
Chater, Mrs., Evidence contributed by ----- 43
Chenoweth, Mrs., Reference to the Mediumship of - 239-240, 268
Child Percipient 43
Childe-Pemberton, Miss A., The Case of WilUam Gillam - - 112
Christensen, Arthur O., Information contributed by - - - 58-60
Clarke, J. Mostyn, On " The Hyenas of Pirra " in the CornhiU
Magazine ---------- 88-91
Collier, Sergeant -Major S. W., Evidence contributed by - - 116
Communications pvirporting to come from the Dead
—
Failure to communicate names - - - - - - 26-28
Personal Appearance of the Departed - - - - 20, 24-29
Conference of Bishops, Conclusions in relation to Spiritualism 276-277
Constable, F. C—
Case contribiited by ------- - 7
Personal appearance of the departed ----- 61-63
Telergy, On the use of the word ------ 34-35
Control: Nelly, Reference to ------ 192-193
Controls, Personal appearance of the departed as described
by 20, 24, 60-65
Cooke, J. H. C, Evidence contributed by - - - - 188-190
Co-operative Automatism -------- 66
Coote, J. T., On nomenclatme in psychical research - - 141-142
Correspondence 10, 32, 60, 66, 88, 101, 141, 163, 180, 190, 234, 248,
249, 265, 279, 280
Council elections, meetings, etc. See Society for Psychical
Research.
IV Index to Vol. XIX.
Cowper, H. S., Case contributed by - - - - - - 230
See also Correspondence ------ 248, 279
Cox, Esther. See " Amherst Mystery."
Crawford, W. J., D.Sc—
Experiments in Psychical Science, Review of - - - 105
Obituary - 255-257
Psychic Structm-es, On the ------- 278
The Reality of Psychical Phenomena, Reference to - - 101
Refusal to allow the Society to take part in his investiga-
tions 150, 221, 222, 224
Crookes, Sir William, Obituary - . - - .38, 109, 154, 160
Cross-correspondence, Angel, Reference to - - - - - 200
Cryptomnesia, A possible instance of - - - - - - 247
D.
Dallas, Miss H. A., Evidence of survival ----- 234
Deafness, Attempt to cure, by suggestion ----- 59-60
Dearmer, Rev. Percy, Nomenclatm-e - - - - 104-105, 180
Reference to - - 141-143
Dei Fenomeni d' Infestazioiie, by E. Bozzano, Review of - - 107
Dingwall, E. J.
—
Reviews :
Dr. Hereward Carrington's Modern Psychical Phenomena 252
J. M'Cabe's Is Spiritualism based on Fraud ? - - 268
Dr. Walter F. Prince's Supplementary Report on the
Keeler-Lee Photographs ----- 274-276
Dodd, Miss C. A., Evidence contributed by - - - - 8
Dodds, E. R., On the evidence for Telepathy, Reference to - 278
Donations towards the increased cost of printing
17, 19, 21, 38, 75, 153, 154-1.55, 183, 254, 269
Doris Fischer Case of Mtiltiple Personality - 21, 155, 257-262
Dowsing, invitation to members to take part in experunents in 160
Doyle, Sir Ai'thm* Conan, Case contributed by - - - - 10-12
Dream-Analysis, by A. Johnson, Correspondence on - - - 35-36
Dream-Phenomena, On ------- 26, 61, 169
Dreams ----- 3-7, 10-12, 56, 161, 166-171, 175, 269
Dynamistograph, Reference to the ------ 252
B.
Ecstasy, Instances of ------- - 52-54
Effect of Light on long Ether waves and other Processes - - 32-34
Elberfeld Horses. See Thinking Animals.
" Elongation," A Sixteenth century instance of - - - - 51
Endowment Fund. See Society for Psychical Research.
Erratimi -284
Ether and Matter, and their possible Psychical Bearings 20, 21, 25-26
I
Index to Vol. XIX. V
Ether waves, Effect of Light on long 32-34
"EvaC," 107, 157, 160, 253
Experi7nents in Psychical Science, by W. J. Crawford, D.Se.,
Review of -------- - 105
Correction 132
Experiments in Thozigfit -transference without Conscious Agency, by
Hubert Wales 93, 155, 160
Experiments, Suggestions for - - - - 66-70, 163, 280-281
F.
F., E. G., and H. W., Case confirmed by 179
F., T. I., Case confirmed by - -
'
- - - - 172-173
Faith, The, of a Quaker, by John Graham, Review of - - 282
Faxon Co., Appointed American Agent - - . - 51, 157
Feilding, Hon. Everard, Resignation as Honorary Secretary 135, 154
,, ,, On the work of the Society - - - 150
Findlay, J. Arthur, On Nomenclature - - - - 143, 164
Folklore, Psychology a)irl. by R. R. Marett, Review of - - 251
Freud's Psj-chology --------- 36
Future Life and Its Nature, Problems of the, by Dr. J. H. Hyslop,
Review of - - - - - - - - - - 130
C4.
Galloway, George, The Idea of Immortality. Its Development
and Value, Revie"\v of - - - - - - - - 249
Garner-Smith, Gerard, Evidence contributed by - - - 82
Gazerra, Linda, Reference to ------ - 268
Gillam, Mrs., Evidence contributed by - - - - - 122
" Gillam, William, The Case of " - - - - - - 112
Goligher, Kathleen, Mediiunship of. See Dr. W. J. Crawford's books.
Graham, John W., The Faith of a Quaker, Review of - - - 282
Guy, Rev. Hugh., Evidence contributed by, in the Swanton
Novers " poltergeist " case ------- 98-99
H.
H., M. E., Evidence contributed by 101
Hackett, J. T., My Commonplace Book, by, Review^|_of - - 143
Hall, Captain Basil, R.N., Personal appearance of the departed 65
Hallucinations, Auditory 7-9, 30-32, 84. 86, 87
Symbolic 128
Visual - - 84, 86, 87
Hanson, Mrs., Case contributed by ------ 56
Hanson, B. F., Evidence contributed by - - - - - 57
Highett, Miss A., Evidence contributed by . - - 39-40, 46
VI Index to Vol. XIX.
Hill, J. Arthur—
On cases in the Journal ....... 248
Reviews :
Dr. Hereward Carrington's Psychical Phenomena a7id
the War 92
Mrs. Travers Smith's Voices from the Void - - - 71
Spiritualism, Its History, Pheyiomeyia and Doctrine, Review of 70
Hill, The, oj Vision, Review of - - - - - - - 235
Hillman, R. Mowat, Evidence contributed by - - - - 82
Holmes, F. W., V.C., Accovmt of the Indian Rope-Trick
124-125, 126, 127
" Hopkinson,"' Canon, Apparition of - - - - - 262-265
" Hyenas, The, of Pirra " 88
Hypnotism, Problems of ------- - 255
Hyslop, Professor J. H.
—
Chance-coincidence and Guessing in a mediumistic experiment 127
In Memoriam ......... 238
Life After Death, Problems of the Future Life and Its Nature,
Review of 130
Author's objections to - - - - - - - 197
Pictographic phenomena ------ 128, 197
I.
Immortality, The Idea of, by George Galloway,
Impressions of a New Associate -
Indian Rope-Trick -----
Infestazione, Dei Fenomeni d\ Review of -
J.
Jacks, Dr. L. P.
—
Election as a Member of Council . - - - 150-151
Vice-President 182
Personal appearance of the departed ----- 24
Discussion on ------ - 20,60-65
" James, Mrs.," Evidence contributed by - - - 263-264, 265
" Jameson, Miss G. B.," Case contributed by - - - - 161
" Jameson," Mrs., Case confirmed by - - - - 161, 162
Johnson, Alice, Dream-Analysis, Correspondence on - - - 35-36
Jordan-Smith, B., Case contributed by - - - - - 138
Jung, Dr. C. G., The Psychological Foundations of the Belief in
Spirits 95, 155, 157, 160
K.
Keelbb-Lbe Photographs 221, 274-276
Kingsford, Miss S. M., Personal appearance of the departed - 64-65
„ „ Psychical Research for the Plain Man,
Review of - . . - - 283
Review of - - 249
165, 208
124
107
Index to Vol. XIX. vii
L.
L., G. H., Case confirmed by 169- 170
Lambert, G. W., Concerning A Case of Psychometry " - - 279
„ ,, Co-operative Automatism . . . . 66-70
Larkin, J. J., Evidence contributed by - - - - 80-82, 83
L'Energie Spirituelle, Essais et Conferences, by Henri Bergson,
Review of --------- - 267
Leonard, Mrs. Osborne, The Trance-phenomena of
—
Book-tests, On the 19, 133
Incident, An, in a sitting 226,248
Knowledge apparently supernormally acqurred - - - 227
Note on "A Series of Sittings," by Miss Radclyffe-Hall - 183
Correspondence on - - - - - - - 190
" Sittings, A Series of," by Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady
Troubridge, Reference to
—
" Ai'k," On the mention of ----- 185-186
Billy Incident 191,193-195
Cruz, On the som'ce of the corrected pronunciation of - 185
" Daisy's Second Father incident - - - - 195
Medium, Impression on and comments of, on reading
record 184-186
Memory of trance-utterances - - - 184-185
Note, by Miss Radclyffe-Hall. ^See above.
Wales, Hubert, On some incidents - - - - 190
Reply to 193
Sittings, References to - 113-114, 117 (and footnotes), 226
Reports, References to - - 1, 19, 21, 133, 155, 160, 183
Levitation, Alleged instances of 53-54
,, Table, Suggestions for recording movements and
pressures 103-104
Life after Death, Problems of the Future Life and Its Nature, by
Dr. J. H. Hyslop, Review of - - . . 130,197-198
Light, Case reported in - - - - - - - - 161
Light, Effect of, on long ether waves and other processes - - 32
Lodge, Sir Oliver
—
Cases communicated - - - - - - 76, 166, 230
Ether and Matter and their possible psychical bearings 20, 21, 25-26
Ether waves and other processes. Effect of light on - - 32-34
In Memoriam : James Hervey Hyslop .... 238
Lord Rayleigh 109, 160
Personal appearance of the departed. Reference to 24, 25-26, 27-29
Reply 60-61
M.
Mabett, R. R., Psychology and Folklore, Review of - - - 251
Mackenzie, Dr. William, The Problem of the Thinking Dog of
Mannheim, by. Translation of - - - - -
128-129
viii Index to Vol. XIX.
Macklin, Miss H. E., Case communicated by - - . . 3
Macklin, Mrs., Case contributed by - - - - - - 4-7
MacLellan, Miss Alice, Report of various psj^chical experiences 166
MacLellan, E. A., Cases confii-med by . - - . 179-180
Man, Reference to article in ----- - 198-199
Man-Making from out of the Mists to beyond the Veil, by W. E.
Benton, Review of ------- - 204
" Masked Medimn" . . 76
" Materialising " substance extruded from medivmis - - - 107
Matla, Dr., Experiments to communicate with the dead by
instrumental means. Reference to - - - - - 216
M'Cabe, Joseph, Is Spiritualism based on Fraud ? Review of - 268
M'Connel. D. R., Evidence contributed by . . . . 77-80
M'Connel, David E., Case of Apparition of - - - - 76
M'Dougall, W., F.R.S., Case received through - - - - 269
,, ,, Election as President - - - - 152
Presidential Address - - - 205, 226
" McKenzie, Angus,"" Evidence contributed by - - - IQl
" McKenzie,"" Mrs., Case contributed by - - - - 99-101
Medical Section of the Society, Suspension of- - - 111-112, 157
,, Committee appointed - - - - - - - 112
" Medium, the Masked "'
76
Mediums Eva C."" 107,157-160,253
Goligher, Kathleen. See The Reality of Psychical Phenomena
and Experiments in Psychical Science.
Mediumship, Professional, Criticism of - - - 191-193,195-196
Meetings, Notices of - 1, 13, 49, 93, 109, 133, 165, 181, 205, 237, 253
Members and Associates. See Society for Psychical Research.
" Middleton, Rev. R.,"' Evidence contributed by - - - 263
" Middleton," Mrs., Case and evidence contributed by - 262-265
Milburn, Rev. Gordon, On Evidence for survival - - 249, 265
Miles, Clarissa, and Hermione Ramsden, Experiments in thoiight-
transference, Reference to - - - - - - - 245
Mitchell, Dr. T. W., Appointment as a Member of Council 151, 154
„ „ Review of the Doris Fischer Case of Multiple
Personality, Reference to - 21, 155
• •
,, „ ,, A Footnote to, by Dr. Walter Prince 257
Modern Psychical Phenomena, by Hereward Carrington, Ph.D..
Review of - - - ------- 252
Moseley, Sj'dney A., An Amazing Seance and an Exposure - 76
Multiple Personality, Doris Fischer Case - .
- - 21, 155, 257
" Munro,"" Mrs. M. E., Case contributed by - - - 269-274
" Munro,"" W., Case confirmed by - - - - - - 273
Miuray, Professor Gilbert, Elected Vice-President of the Society 182
„ „ „ Experiments in Thought-transference,
Reference to - - ,
- ,
199,200
Index to Vol. XIX. ix
My Commonplace Book, by J. T. Hackett, Review of - - 143
Myers. F. W. H., Reference to - - - - - - 34-35,210
N.
Names, On the communicator's faiku'e to remember - - - 26-28
Nervous Effluence and Telepathic Influence, Investigations on 237, 255
Neimiann, Dr., Experiments upon the " thinking " clog of Mann-
heim _ . . - 128-129, 233
Newton, Miss I., Evidence collected by - - - - 187-190
Reference to - - - - 21,112,224.227
Nomenclatvu-e ------- 104, 141-143, 180
Norwegian Society for Psychical Research, Experiments in
Automatism - - - - - - - - 241
Communications invited in connexion with a series of
quotations obtained by automatism - - - 160-161
Note on A Series of Sittings with Mrs. Osborne Leonard - 183
Notes on Periodicals - 127-129, 233. 274
O.
O., E. P., and J.. Case confii-med by - - - - - 178-179
O., M., Evidence contributed by ------ 57-58
Obituary ------ 20. 38, 58, 73, 238, 255-257
Orr, Miss Ada, Evidence contributed by ----- 47-48
Ouija-board experiments - ------ 71-72. 241
P.
PALL.A.DINO, Eus.\pio, Reference to ----- 211.280
Parapsychic phenomena - - - - - - - 210, 211
" Parkinson," Mrs.. Experiences in connexion with the death of 84, 226
Periodicals, Notes on 127-129, 233, 274-278
Personal Appearance of the Departed as described by Controls
20. 24. 60-6 5
Petrie, Professor Flinders, Evidence contributed by - - - 279
" Phantasms of the Living, A Discussion of Cases of, which have
appeared in the .Journal - - - - - - 181, 208
Physical Phenomena, Effect of light on - - - - - 33-34
„ . „ Experiments for - . - - 105-107
Suggestions for - 102-104, 217-218
Piper, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of, References to
61., 62-63, 127, 213, 218-219, 239, 284
" Pirra, the Hyenas of " - - - - - - - - 88, 91
Pnemnatic method of recording muscular efforts, pressiu-es, etc. 102-104
Podmore, Franlv, quoted - - - - - - - - 280
" Poltergeist " Case, A Supposed, and its explanation - - 95
,, Phenomena, on - - - - - - - 108
Premonitory Dream - - - - - - - - -161
X Index to Vol. XIX.
President, Elections of 16, 152
Death of 73,95,153-154
Presidential Addresses - - - 13, 51, 73, 153, 160, 205, 226
Prince, Dr. Walter F., A Footnote to Dr. iVIitcheirs Review of the
Doris Fischer Case - - - - 257
On the " Great Amherst Mystery " - 127-128
,, ,, Keeler-Lee Photogi-aphs - 274-276
Printing expenses, Increase of - - - 18-19, 21, 151, 154-155
,, Donations towards
17, 19, 21, 38, 75, 154, 183, 254, 269
Prophecies 166, 167-168, 170-180, 235-236
Psychic Phenomena, The Reality of. On Mr. Whately Smith's
article on --------- -
Psychic Research Quarterly, Notes on -
Psychical experiences, A group of ----- -
Psychical Phenomena, Modern, by Hereward Carrington, Ph.D.,
Review of --------- -
Psychical Phenomena and the War, by Hereward Carrington,
Review of --------- -
Psychical Researchfor the Plain Man, by S. M. Kingsford, Review
of
Psychical Science, Experiments in, by W. J. Crawford, D.Sc,
Review of --------- -
Psycho-dynamic Phenomena, The Experimental investigation of
Psychological Foundations of tlie Belief in Spirits
Psychology and Folklore, by R. R. Marett, Review of -
Psychometry, Concerning a case of -
Q.
Query-Coincidence ? or What ?.-.----
R.
R , Db. L. B., Case confirmed by . . . - -
Radclyfie-Hall, Miss M., " A Series of Sittings witli Mi's. Leo-
nard," Reference to 19-20, 21, 183,190, 193
„ „ A Note on the above - - - - 183
„ „ Reply to Mr. Hubert Wales's criticism 193
Ramsden, Miss Hermione, Experiments in automatism - , 241-246
„ ,, Experiments in thought-transference
with Miss Miles, Reference to - 245
Rayleigh, Lord, O.M., F.R.S.—
Elected President - - - - - - - - 16
Appreciation of the honom- he did to the Society in
accepting the Presidency - - 16, 95, 153-154
Obituary 73, 95, 109, 160
Council Minute on ------- 95
Presidential Address - - - - - - - 51, 160
101
278
166
252
92
283
105
280
95
251
279
9
271
Index to Vol. XIX. xi
Reality, The, of Psychical Phenomena,'' On Mr. Whately Smith's
article on --------- - 101
Reviews - 70, 71, 92, 105, 107, 130, 235, 249, 251, 267, 268, 282,283
Reynolds, Lizzie, Evidence contributed by - . . . 6
Richardson, C. A., Spiritual Pluralism and Recent Philosophy,
Review of - - - 201
Riehet, Professor C, " Experiments in Hypnotic Lucidity or
Clairvoyance," Reference to - - - - - 199, 201
Richmond, Kenneth, On the powers of the Unconscious - - 278
Rolf. See Thinking " Animals.
Rope-trick, The Indian - - - - - - - - 124
S., H., Cases confirmed by - - - - - - - 172
S , Dr. E., Case confu-med by ----- - 273
Salter, W. H., Co-opted as Member of Council - - - - 152
Salter, Mrs. W. H., Evidence collected by - - - - 263-264
,, ,, Review : J. T. Hackett's My Commonplace
Book - . - - 143-144
,, ,, ,, Reports on " Eva C.'s " phenomena.
Reference to - - - - 157
,, Sittings with Mrs. Leonard - - - - 20
Saunders, James, Evidence contributed by - - - - 31
„ Miss Maude, Evidence contributed by - - - 31, 32
Schiller, F. C. S., D.Sc—
Notes on periodicals ----- 127-129,197,233
Review : Dr. George Galloway's The Idea of Immortality - 249
,, Dr. Hyslop s Life after Death - - - - 130
,, ,, Note on Dr. Hyslop's objections to - 198
,, R. R. Marett's Psychology and Folklore - - 251
,, C. A. Richardson's Spiritual Pluralism and Recent
Philosophy 201-204
On the Spiritual Value of Names, Reference to - - 26, 27, 28
Vice-President, election as - - - - - - - 182
Sellers, Miss R. A., On the personal appearance of the departed.
Reference to --------- 26
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry
—
" A Discussion on some cases of '
Phantasms of the Living
'
which have appeared in the Journal " - - - - 208
" A Report on some "
Book-tests '
obtained through Mrs.
Leonard - - - - - - - - - 133
Psychology of Mrs. Piper"s trance-phenomena. References to
61, 62-63
Sixteenth Century Instance of " Elongation " - - - - 51
Smith, Mrs. Travers. Voices from the Void, Review - - - 71
xii Index to Vol. XIX.
Smith, W. Whately^
Co-opted as a Member of Coimcil . . . . . 207
Dr. Crawford, On refusal of, to allow the Society to enquire
into his phenomena - - - - 150
„ On the experiments of, Reference to - - 101
Heview : Dr. Crawford's Experiments in Psychical Science - 105
Suggested new test for evidence of survival - - - 163
Society for Psychical Research
—
Accounts
—
Endowment Fund 23, 159
General Fund - - - - - - - 22, 158
Activities of. Effect of the War upon - - - - - 17
Articles of Association, Changes in - - - 136-137, 155
Associates, Suspension of the election of new - 136, 151, 155
Council, Appeal for contributions towards the increased cost
of printing - - - - - - 18-19
,, ,, Response to
17, 19, 21, 38, 75, 153, 154-155, 183, 254, 269
and Officers, Elections - 16. 150, 151, 152, 207
Meetings 3, 15-16, 38, 50-51, 75, 94-95, 111, 135-136,
151-152, 182, 207, 225-226, 254-255
Rayleigh, Lord, Minute on the death of - - 95
Reports 17, 152
,, Retirement of Dr. Milne Bi'amwell - - 150, 154
Dr. Crawford's phenomena, attempt to enquire into
150, 221, 222, 224
Feilding, Hon. Everard, Resignation as Honorary Secretary 135,154
Financial position - - - - - - - 21, 154-155
Investigation of " Eva C." - - . . 157,160,253
Mrs. Leonard - • - 19-20, 133, 152, 155, 160
Investigations, not all publislied or printed- - - - 156
Library, Use made of - - - - - - - - 153
Medical Committee, Appointment of - - - - - 112
,, Section, Suspension of - - - - 111-112, 157
Meetings
—
Annual General 14-15, 145-151
Extraordinary General . . . . . 136, 137
General 13, 21, 49, 51, 95, 109, 205
Private 1, 16-17, 21, 93, 133, 152, 160, 165, 181, 208, 237, 253, 255
Members and Associates, Honorary, Corresponding and
Ordinary, Elections of 2-3, 14, 16, 37-38, 50, 74-75, 94, 110-
111, 134-135, 145, 152. 182, 206-207, 225, 254
Methods and policy. Criticisms on - - 146-149, 223-224
Need for competent workers . . . . 149-150, 156
Presidency, Appreciation of the honour done by Lord Ray-
leigh in accepting the - - 16, 95, 153-154
1
1
Index to Vol ' JCIA'. xiii
Society for Psychical Research
—
Presidency, Elections to - - - - - - 16, 152
Publications, Increased cost of production of - - 151, 154
,, ,, price of - - - - - - 155
sales of 18, 21, 153
Vice-Presidents, Election of - - - - - - 182
Work of. Tributes to 209, 218-220, 277
Spearman, Mrs., Evidence contributed by - - - 39, 40, 41-42
Speech automatism, Case of ----- - 99, 101
" Spirit " photographs. Fraudulent - - - - 221,274-276
photography. Reference to - 212, 213-214, 221, 274-276
Spirits, Belief in. The Psychological Foundations of - - - 95
Spiritual Pluralism and Recent Philosophy, by C. A. Richardson,
Review of --------- - 201
Spiritualism based on Fraud, Is ? Review of - - - - 268
Spiritualism, Conference of Bishops and conclusions in relation to 276-277
Spiritualism, Its History, Phenomena and Doctrine, by J. Ai-thur
Hill, Review of 70
" Spiritualism," On the use of the term. .See Nomenclatru'e.
" Stevenson, A.," Evidence contributed by . . . . 229
" Stevenson, J.," Case reported by ----- - 262
" Stevenson, Mrs. Kitty," Case concerning and evidence contri-
buted by 227-230
Subconscious impressions. The registering of - - - - 198
Suggestion without hypnotism ------- 58-60
Survival and communication. On the question of 20, 24-29, 60-65, 71-
72, 127, 130-132, 163-164, 190-196, 218-219, 222, 234, 239-240
249, 250, 265, 267, 277
Survival and conmiunication, A suggested new test for evidence of 163
Sutton, Mr., Two sittings with ------- 255
Swanton Novers, Supposed " Poltergeist "at - - - - 95
T.
Telekinesis, Suggestions for experiments - - - - 280-281
Telepathic hypothesis in evidence for survival and communication
20, 24, 27, 29, 64-65, 219, 240
,, Influence, Investigations on nervous effluence and 237, 255
Telepathy, Experimental, Reference to - - - 160, 199, 209
,, On the reality of 209, 277
,, Reference to article on evidence for - - - - 278
Spontaneous - - - - 7, 30, 56, 83, 138, 199, 209
„ Wireless telegraphy and, On the supposed analogy
between -------- 33
Telergy, On the use of the word ------ 34-35
Test, A suggested, for evidence of survival - - - - 163
XIV Index to Vol XIX.
" Thinking " Animals, Experiments with Rolf of Mannheim
128-129, 233
„ Elberfeld horses 233
Thomas, Miss E. M., Evidence contributed by - - 139, 140-141
Thomas, Ernest S., On Miss Johnson's Dream-Analysis - - 35-36
„ The registering of sub-conscious impressions 198
Thomas, N. W., Reference to article by, in Man - - - 198
Thompson, Mrs., Mediumship of. Reference to - - - 192-193
Thought-transference without Conscious Agency, Some Experiments
in, by Hubert Wales 93. 155, 160
Thought-transference, Professor G. Murray's experiments in,
Reference to 199, 200
Thiirston, Rev. Herbert, S.J., A Sixteenth Century Instance of
" Elongation " 51
Trance-phenomena, Reference to 19. 133, 183, 190, 193, 226, 234,
239-240
Troubridge, (Una) Lady, " A Series of Sittings with Mrs. Osborne
Leonard," References to
19-20, 21, 183, 190, 193
,i „ " Evidential Matter of Practical Im-
portance," Reference to - - 278
Review of E. Bozzano's Dei Fenomeni
d' Infestazione . . - . 107
V.
Veronica, Sister. See " Elongation,"' A Sixteenth Century
Instance of.
Visions 45-46, 242, 246
Forces /raw). ;/ie Fold, by Hester Travers Smith. Review of - - 71
W.
W., M. A., Evidence contributed by 87
Wales, Hiibert
—
Case coiranunicated and evidence collected by - - - 39-46
On the sittings of Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge
with Mrs. Leonard - - - - 190
Miss Radclyffe-Hall's reply to - - - 193
" Some experiments in Thought-transference without Con-
scioiis Agency," Reference to - - 93, 155, 157, 160
Walker, R. A. Rolleston, Evidence collected by - - - - 30
War, The, Effect of, on the activities. Income and membership of
the Society 17-18
Prophecies of end of - - - 166,176-180.235-236
,, Psychical Phenomena and the, by Dr. Hereward
Carrington, Review of ----- 92
Index to Vol. XIX. XV
Watson, Mrs., Evidence contributed by ----- 44
Westminster Cathedral Chronicle, Case reprinted from - - - 84-86
Whitecar,',W. A., Evidence contributed by - - - - 9-10
Wilkins, Mrs. Lydia, Evidence contributed by - - 188. 189, 190
Willett, Mrs., Case communicated by ----- 47
" Willett," Mrs., Mediumship of, Reference to - - - - 193
Wireless telegraphy and telepathy. On the suggested analogy
between ---------- 33
Witherby, A. G., Personal appearance of the departed - - 64
Wolff, Dr., On the Elberfeld horses 233
Woodd, Rev. Trevor Basil, Case (Family Warning) contributed by 186
" Word-association " test. Suggestion to use, in experiments for
evidence of sm-vival ------- 163-164
Wright, G. E., On nomenclatm-e 142-143
„ On TJie Reality of Psychical Phenomena - 101-104
„ Review : Miss Kingsford's Psychical Research for
the Plain Man 283
„ Some Impressions of a New Associate - - 165, 208
X.
" X," Father, Evidence contributed by 87
Z.
Zelst, Z. van. Experiments to communicate with the dead by
instrumental means, Reference to - - - - - 216
FOR NOTICE OF MEETING, SEE FIRST PAGE.
Society for Psychical Research
For Private Circulation among Members,
and Associates only.
NO. CCCLL—VOL. XIX.
JANUARY 1919.
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON W. i.
OF THE
All rights reserved.
Robert MacLehose & Co, Ltd., University Press, Glasgow.
NOTICES.
Communications tor the Editor to be addressed to —
Mrs. Salter, Society for P'sychical Eesearch,
20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
Membei's are invited to send contributions as to facts arising within their
own observation, or ciitical discussion of the lesults already obtained by
the Society. /
Subscriptions for 1919.
subscriitions for 1919 are now due. members and associates are
requested to" send them to the treasurer, j. g. piddington, esq.,
20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1, at their early convenience. The
Subscription of Members is Two Guineas ; that of Associates is One
Guinea.
Cheques may' be Crossed "London County Westminster & Parr's
Bank, Hanover Square Branch."
With regard to the Subscriptions of American Members, see Notice on
third page of cover.
Information lelating to any branch of the Society's woik may be sent
to the Honorary Secretaries, oi' to the Secretary, Society for Psychical
Eesearch, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
Members and Associates are requested to send notice of any change
af name or address to the Secretaiy, Society for Psychical Eesearch,
20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
Applications for Membership and for printed documents should be
addi'essed to the Secretai'y, Society for Psychical Eesearch, 20 Hanover
Square, London, W. 1.
Subscriptions are payable to the Hon. Treasurer, J. G. Piddington, Esq.,
20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1. Article 18 is as follows :
—
" All subscriptions shall become payable upon the election of the Member or
Associate, and subsequently on the 1st day of January in each year ;
provided that in
case any Member or Associate is elected on or after the 1st day of October, his sub-
scription shall be accepted as for the mext following year."
Forms for the regular payment of subscriptions through a banker may
be had on application.
A form of bequest can be had on application to the Seci'etary, Society
for Psychical Eesearch, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
The Eooms of the Society, at 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1, are
open every week-day from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., except on Saturday, when
they close at 1.30 p.m.
NOTICES
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING.
The Annual General Meeting (for Business Purposes only) of the
Members of the Society will be held at 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1,
on iriday, January 31st, 1919, at 3 p.m.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
Meetings of the Council will be held at 20 Hanover Square, London,
W. ], on Iriday, January 31st, 1919, at 2.30 p.m., and immediately after the
Annual Lusmess Meetino-.
PRIVATE MEETING.
nn'^T?'^'^^^^^
Meeting of the Society will be held in The Council Chamber,
20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1, on Friday, January 31st, 1919, at
4.30 p.m. when a paper entitled
"A REPORT ON THE TRANCE-PHENOMENA OF MRS. LEONARD"
^
will be I'ead hy
Mrs. W. H. Salter.
NOTICE TO MEMBERS OF THE SOCIETY RESIDING IN
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
Members and Associates living in America are requested to note that
the Society's late Agent, the W. E. Clarke Co., has given up business, and
that, pending the Society's appointment of a new Agent, subscriptions
should be sent to the Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover
Square, London, W. 1.
The subscription of Members is Ten dollars annually, or a single payment
ot One hundred dollars; the subscription of Associates is Five dollars
annua ly, or a single payment of Fifty dollars. These subscriptions are due
immediately on election and subsequently on the first day of January in
Orders for extra copies of publications on the special terms allowed
to Members and Associates may, ^vhen payments for the same are made
in advance also be sent to the Secretary, S.P.R., 20 Hanover Square,
London, W. 1.
^ > >
Bound in doth, Demy 8vo, 325 + viii pp., with Index, Price 9s. 7ieL
PRESIDEKTIAL ADDEESSES
TO THE
SOCIETY FOE PSYCHICAL EESEAECH
1882—1911
BY
Henry Sidgwick, Balfoue Stewart, Arthur J. Balfour,
William James, Sir William Crookes, F. W. H. Myers,
SIR Oliver Lodge, Sir Willlajw Barrett, Charles Richet,
Gerald W. Balfour, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, H. Arthur
Smithj and Andrew Lang.
Members and Associates can obtain copies of the above at the rediiced
Prtceoj 56-. vet, melusive of postage, on application to the Secretary, S.P.R.,
M Hanover Square, London, W. 1. The application must be accompanied by
THE j^URNAL.
The Journal can be obtained, bbtind in cloth, as under, by Members and
Associates :
—
Vols. I., II. {Nos. 1-;, 35) . . 10s. 6d. each.
„ III.-XVII. (Nos. 36-^<t33) . . 7s. 6d. „
Cover and Index for Vol. XVIII. (Noa. 334—350) will be ready shortly.
The price of separate numbers is as iollows :
—
Nos. 1-35, 9d. each ; Nos. 114, (Np^., 1894), and 118, (Mar. and April, 1895),
1b. each ; other Nos., 6d. each ; double numbers, 9d.
THE PROCEEDINGS.
The PROCEEDINGS d&n be obtained, bound in cloth, as under, by Members
and Associates : — "':
Vol. I. (Parts I.—IV.) ..... . pp. 336 5b.
J »
II. 1 *
v.—VII.) . . . . 340 OS.
)> III. i >) VIII.—IX.) .^^
. 500 OS.
5 J
IV. J) X.—XI.) . V . . . b05 4s.
V. » )
XII.—XIV.) >
606 5s.
) >
VI. J»
XV.—XVII.) i 707 5s.
J>
VII. I >3 XVIII.—XX.j; 442 4s.
1» VIII. t >
)
XXI.—XXIII.) d47 OS.
) )
IX. i i >
XXIV.—XXV>) . . . 407 4s.
) i
X. I 5 )
XXVI.) . t 466 4s.
5> XI. \ > >
XXVII.—XXIX.) .
637 5s.
»> XII. I »» XXX.—XXXI. and Appendix) 391 4s.
1) XIII. I 1 »
XXXII.—XXXIII.) 654 6s.
)» XIV. \ J> XXXIV.—XXXV.) 436 5s.
5» XV. V )5 XXXVI.—XL.) . . . 522 6s.
>» XVI. I )>
YT T ^ OOU OS.
9»
XVII. \ »
5
XLII.—XLV.) .
468 6s. 3d.
) >
XVIII. t )
)
XLVL—XLIX.) . .
548 7s.
XIX. I J)
L.—LII.) 508 6s. 6d.
j» XX. 1 >> LIII.) . \ 444 6s.
9) XXI. V >> LIV.—LVI.);. 584 6s.
J>
XXII. I »J
LVII.) . .
446 6s,
9)
XXIII. t )
)
LVIII.—LIX:) . .
. . , 602 7s.
J >
XXIV. '
>s
LX.—LXI.) .
758 7s.
5 J
XXV. \ )
»
LXII.—LXIV.) 540 6s.
5» XXVI. I J)
LXV.—LXVU.) .
544 6s.
1 )
XXVII. \ >
)
LXVIII.—LXX.) . .
547 6s.
„ XXVIII. V )9 LXXI.) 657 7s.
XXIX. V 3»
LXXII.-LXXIV.). 467 6s. 6d.
In paver '
»
>
LXXV.) . .
173 28. 3d.
>) >
LXXVI.) 100 Is. 6a.
Any of the Parts can be purchased separately.
Cloth covers for binding Vol. XXIX. of the Pkoceeduigs, and Vol. XVII. of
the Journal (as well as earlier Vols.), may be obtained, price Is. each.
Any of the above may be obtainecl from the Secretary, Society for Psychi^l
Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
Note.—Single numbers or volumes will be sent post free.
