{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1william_w_nde.html","mytitle":"William W NDE 3067","mylang":"de"}
          	        William W NDE 3067  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					William W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1099  William W NDE  3067  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

The first thing that I recall was leaving my body and seeing the doctor and nurses working on me. I then began to float out of the operating room and seeing my father holding my mom as she was crying. I recall the color of the chairs they were sitting in, it was very 1960-ish, blue, orange, yellows and tiles on the wall were also different colors.

Then I went through what seemed like a tunnel and I was moving very fast, I remember my stomach was turning, but I wasn't scared and seemed to be at peace, just a strange sensation. The next thing I can recall I was kneeling down on a small dirt road picking flowers and hoping that I didn't have to go back. As I was picking flowers I saw two people walking up the road towards me and remember thinking, 'I hope I don't have to go back,' This was very prevalent throughout my whole experience. They were wearing brown robes (like monks) and carrying a staffs. I could not see their faces because the hood was hiding it from me. As I recall they never said anything to me, but I knew I was about to find out if I had to return. We walked until we came to what appeared to be a very large house, I entered and before me was what I think was God, or someone who had the power to decide if I was to return. Then this Being told me to 'Be Good' and pointed to my right.  As I turned, I saw about five or six round shapes that looked like planets sitting on top of pedal stools, then I immediately went straight into one of the objects and again felt the same feeling of moving very fast until I could see my body on the operating table.

I can remember this as if it happened yesterday. It was many years before I told anyone because I thought people would think I was crazy, but I remember seeing a movie about near death experiences in the 1970's and realized that I wasn't the only one. I told only a few people since then and this is the first time ever writing this down, but I feel it's important to let people know that death is not the end, and we should be 'Good'. It sounds simple and you would think if it was God he would have said more, but that is what he said. I've also heard that the brain may do weird things when you are dying, but I was only three or four years old, I don't even think I knew the world was round! I know the truth and have tried to be a good person. That doesn't mean I'm perfect, but when I stand in front of him again the good will outweigh the bad and I hope that will be enough to stay this time. God bless everyone and do your best to lead a good life and make God proud of what he created.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    Around 1967

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  I had an operation for three enlarged glands.  I was told by my mother afterwards that the doctor said I died, but he was able to save me, but it was very close.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The whole process, it was very real.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      The whole process, it was very real.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I seemed to have a better sense at the age of four when it was happening then I do now.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Mainly the colors and detail.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I don't ever remember me talking I just seemed to know what was happening to me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     It was tunnel-like and I was moving very fast.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     See main narrative.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   I can't recall, I wasn't in the tunnel very long, but I wasn't scared.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just a beautiful place, words just can't describe it.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Seeing my mother crying in the hospital was sad, but I felt free, at peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I've always tried to fair and good to people and try to better myself as a person.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     It was a large house - sorry that's what it was.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   I was too young to have any

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     My relationship is with God, I have studied Christianity and Islam, but I think above all God just wants us to be good and make him proud of his creation.

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   I believe in God

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     My relationship is with God, I have studied Christianity and Islam, but I think above all God just wants us to be good and make him proud of his creation.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew why I was there and didn't want to go back.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I just try to be a good person, and get closer to what God wants of me.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I didn't tell anyone except my parents.  It was hard for me to explain what had happen to me because I was so young.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     There are times, but I'd rather not talk about that.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I was told to 'Be Good'.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I had to be in my twenties before I told anyone - really only a few people know. It was received with a look of disbelief, which I completely understand; maybe that's why I haven't told many people, until now.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I remember waking up in the hospital and my mother screaming (she's Italian) and I said 'I met God.'

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     It happened and it is something that I cherish.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No matter what faith you follow, believe that there is only one God and do your best to serve him by helping others. Don't be consumed by money or drugs or your own self-gratification because where we are going it means nothing.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No, it was very good.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1william_w_nde.html