{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1william_t_nde.html","mytitle":"William T NDE 3513","mylang":"de"}
          	        William T NDE 3513  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					William T NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1568 William T NDE 3513  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was as though I was stuck in a clean, approximately eight feet diameter, pipe with the brightest white light at one end and completely pitch dark at the other end. I sat at the end of the pipe closest to the light and wrapped my arms around my knees. I was crying but did not feel scared. The light was somewhat comforting to me; however, I was not certain what to do, or how far I could go into the light. I recall resting, and perhaps falling asleep, in this position. Then I recall watching my brother and a neighbor (friend), carrying something into the house. (I realized later that they were carrying my unconscious body into the house). After regaining consciousness I found myself in my bed, crying. My brother mentioned I was unconscious maybe five or ten minutes, but the time frame in which I was in the pipe felt much longer to me - maybe an hour or so.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  AccidentDirect head injury    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I was knocked unconscious after falling and hitting my head on a tree trunk.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Consciousness - In the pipe.  Alertness - In my bed after regaining consciousness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Consciousness - In the pipe.  Alertness - In my bed after regaining consciousness.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     See above.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     In my unconsciousness it was as though I could not move my head to pan in all directions - like a camera on a tripod (fixed), unable to look around and visually see everything going on around me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't recall hearing anything - voices, sounds, etc. It was quiet, peaceful.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     See above.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The most brilliant white light you could imagine.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Not sure what would have happened if I went totally into the light.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Uneasy. It was as though I felt someone would eventually rescue me if I just sat still at the end of the pipe and not venture off.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I want to say that I did but cannot recall.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     No, I did not go beyond what I thought was the end of the pipe. I thought that I may fall off the end of the pipe into nowhere.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I've always been a little more comfortable with death and dying than most, I guess.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I've always been a little more comfortable with death and dying than most, I guess.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I started to block it out almost immediately, as though it never happened. Only years later, did I realize how it must have impacted me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Somewhat easy to explain, however, I've told very few people, outside of my immediate family.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I have not always been religious, but it did pose some answers as to what I experienced.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When I saw a show regarding NDE's I shared this with my family and wife. Only recently, when a friend informed me of his experience, did I share it with others.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I was too young to understand at the time.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I was excited that it had happened, but it was something I didn't feel I had to share with anyone.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Not that I can recall.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1william_t_nde.html