{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1william_r_nde.html","mytitle":"William R NDE 232","mylang":"de"}
          	        William R NDE 232  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					William R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1405 William R NDE 232  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My father was an alcoholic and quite violent. My mother would support his violence. I felt trapped. I tried running away, but was always caught. My life was falling apart and I knew of no direction to turn so, I turned to suicide.

My mother was a Registered Nurse and kept a drawer full of many types of pills. I took them all and washed them down with my father's beer and whiskey.

I was discovered the next evening on the floor and not expected to live. They gave me a tracheotomy and took me to Los Angeles Community Hospital. While on the operating table, I found myself in a dark corner of the room looking down at myself lying there. I was able to float down to the body and look up at the doctor and nurses who were in the process of pronouncing me dead. I saw them put a tag on my big toe. When I looked into their faces they looked so beautiful, their skin so soft and pink, their eyes so full of love. I felt very emotional, realizing what I had done, and how wrong it was. My life flashed before me, including every minute detail. Then I felt myself being pulled up a tube, or more like inside a blood vessel. All around me were other life forms being pulled up. I could see the end of the tube and it shined very brightly with white light. I kept going faster and faster until I flew out the end into space. There were stars all around, a groaning sound, I was cold, and I felt absolute bliss. I had a body, but it didn't have definition; a hand, but no fingers; legs and feet, but no toes. Somehow I was drawn to this area where I could see life forms of all kinds, some even looked like elephants. They kept passing in front of me until a dark haired human being stopped in front of me and introduced himself as my entrance into the records of all time, everything that has ever happened, or is going to happen. The library of all existing knowledge for all of God's creatures. He shared all kinds of information with me, and even let me see other lifetimes I will be experiencing. I was given the choice to leave life on earth and continue on, or, he recommended I return to earth and complete this life cycle. He said it was important to complete each lifetime and its teachings before going on.

After three months in a coma, I returned to my body instantaneously, and it hurt like hell. I woke up, but was unable to see for about a week. I couldn't speak because of the tracheotomy. I could hear but it was echo-like. I was a mess.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1958

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt    Clinical death   I tried to commit suicide to escape from a very unhappy family life.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Hovering in the operating room seeing my body lying there. It took me a while to recognize myself; I looked different than I thought I did.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During my death experience I was more than alert, it was like only truth existed.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    A groaning sound and big thunder.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was like the inside of a blood vessel.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A very bright light at the end of the tube, at first I wasn't sure I wanted to go there, but I did and it was wonderful.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I call it the Caves. I met all kind of entities there and we shared thoughts.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Absolute Bliss.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I have been able to hear other people's thoughts since then. I know if a person is lying. I am told things that will happen to other people, including death. I have had bad experience with this, so now I keep it to myself.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was like it was on film; I could see the gear holes on the side of the film. It covered every minute thing that happened to me during those sixteen years. I could feel a cut or thorn that I had experienced as a youth.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was shown maps and given all kinds of information concerning earth changes that are going to be happening. Many of which have already occurred.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was advised to return to the body to complete my experience here on earth and to share my gifts. I'm not sure if it was mandatory or not.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Lutheran

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I Find truth in most religious paths and see alot of confusion and misunderstanding.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am a lot more caring and truly believe in God and a life hereafter.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Until someone questioned me about the experience, I believed it to just be a dream. While explaining it, I remembered the whole experience as being real, but very hard to explain.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     See above.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best is the knowledge I've gained. The worst is I see other people struggling without this knowledge, and they can't seem to comprehend this knowledge.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I share my experience with anyone I can. It proved to me there is life everlasting, which gave my life meaning, and I want to share that. Many people are influenced positively, but most can't believe.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   In the 1960's I took LSD and experienced many areas of the experience.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am so glad I was able to go through the experience. I no longer believe in death. The body goes but our identity goes on forever.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1william_r_nde.html