{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1willis_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Willis S NDE 427","mylang":"de"}
          	        Willis S NDE 427  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Willis S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1294 Willis S NDE 427  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Started with intense pain, worst of my life. The pain was suddenly gone. I found myself in a dark void. No light.

Slowly in the center of the void, I became aware of a change in color. The darkness had a pinpoint of grey. The grey slowly became white. This white spot began to grow. It was as if this white area was 3D. It was rising out of the void coming directly towards me. I saw it as either a volcano, or a pimple, no other way to put it. It was not a tunnel.

The white area continued to rise toward me. I got the impression that the white area was swelling from internal pressure. As it came closer, I felt that I could almost touch it. The most important thing was the feeling that the internal pressure was reaching a bursting point. Somehow, I knew that if the white area burst all of the void would be replaced with an intense, warm, bright light. I also knew that if it burst, I was gone. I did my best to will it not to burst. I was not ready for that.

Suddenly it was all gone, I was back in the catheterization lab and they were working on me, but the pain was gone.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 1, 2001

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I was not aware of a body, only the void and the light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt very alert but I could not have been.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The event seemed like it lasted a very long time. But it must have been over in seconds.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No sound at all.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See description.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       ???

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I had to keep the light from bursting. I did not want it to, I did not fear it, but I was not ready for it.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I don't know what to believe.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was a visual/emotional experience, hard to share.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best? That it ended. Worst? Nothing comes to mind.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only my wife. She keeps questioning me about it, but I am having trouble explaining it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1willis_s_nde.html