{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1william_s_nde.html","mytitle":"William S NDE 95","mylang":"de"}
          	        William S NDE 95  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					William S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						505  William S NDE  95  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I was involved in a motorbike accident and I remember lying in the field with a terrible pain in my back. I first checked that I could move my limbs (I could) and the next thing I knew, I was in a kind of glass lift. I waited in the lift until the door opened and then stepped out. The area I arrived in seemed cubic, all white and very relaxing. It was like a greeting area. I looked to my left and there were people standing in a line - infants to adults of all ages, and there was even a tree there. I looked in front of me and towards the corner was someone in a white robe and to his side was a soldier kneeling with a weapon. I noticed the soldier was wearing today's modern dress. In between them, was a bright light and I suddenly realized where I was. I remembered programs where people had said, “Don't go to the light,” which I wasn't about to do, but I didn't know what else to do. I thought, “Do I choose a body from here to go back in?” Then suddenly, I heard my name being called from a corner. I looked and there was a swirling cloud with something like lightning mixed in. I thought, “I want to go back to my wife,” so I went to where my name was being called and the calling became louder.


Then I heard, “We have VF [Ventricular Fibrillation], which was [said] in German. I gasped for breath and opened my eyes to see the emergency doctor looking down at me, and the paramedic cutting my leathers. I then went into a coma with terrible nightmares.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    12 Oct 2001

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Accident    Clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very alert.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    My name being called from a corner.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     In the corner, was a swirling cloud with lightning mixed in. This was where my name was being called and it was the way home.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     They were located to my left in a line and two to the front corner. I didn't know anybody and nobody spoke to me.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was a bright light, circular but not very large, probably 18-24 inches in diameter, and it was situated between two persons.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     As outlined in above narrative.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Confused at first, but with a sense of comfort. It was very relaxing but there was also a slight worry when I realized I was there, because nobody talked to or looked at me.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   When nobody spoke to me and when I heard my name being called, I felt I had the choice but I’m not too sure, really. Maybe I was not meant to be there yet that's why nobody spoke to me.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I believe now there's something after death and I’m not scared to die anymore.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was finding out that there is something else there even if I don't know exactly what that is and I’m back here to tell it; it’s like a chance in a billion to have this type of experience. The worst would have been knowing I’m leaving my wife behind, that hurts.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My wife at first thought I was dreaming because the first words I spoke on coming out of the coma were, “I’ve been there and I’m not scared to die”. She then spoke with doctor, who checked the report and confirmed that I was clinically dead in the ambulance. My close friends listen. Some are interested in this sort of thing and I can see others want to laugh but I don't force the topic. They believe me or they don't. I feel a bit stupid explaining it to them. A few who watch these Discovery channels have such an interest - it feels good to tell them about my experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1william_s_nde.html