{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1william_m_nde_4269.html","mytitle":"William M NDE 4269","mylang":"de"}
          	        William M NDE 4269  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					William M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Shared NDE  			2099 William M NDE 4269  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was driving on the Queen Elizabeth Way from Buffalo to Welland, Ontario, after being very tired from working a 40 hour day job and 4 or 5 music projects.  I frequently drive between Toronto and Buffalo.  I was taking my girlfriend to her parents' home in Welland and went to sleep at the wheel.  I became aware that we were out of our bodies and quickly flying up toward space, holding hands. We flew straight up for a minute or so when we started to see a park or countryside-like landscape.  It seemed to be twilight, dark, but we could see trees, bushes, etc.  Suddenly, four creatures intercepted us.  They seemed about ten feet in height and were invisible, but we could see a vague humanoid outline (my best description would be like the invisibility effect in the movie 'Predator', which I saw some years later).  Two flanked each of us and began to gently separate us.  They overwhelmed us with a feeling of the highest love and compassion that was well beyond anything we could experience on Earth - a divine love.  We therefore had no resistance to their effort. I recall feeling sort of like a baby in mother's arms, but it's hard to accurately describe.  Two of them moved her upward toward the distant landscape, and two moved me back downward.  I felt so much love, peace and comfort that I wanted to protest and say 'No, please let me stay here', but I heard inwardly (without ears or psychically) that I could not stay.  Next, I could see my car, in flames, from maybe about a quarter of a mile up above. I felt a sensation of falling and awakened in the car.

The front was on fire. I moved her from leaning on me, as she was when I fell asleep, knowing that her body was an empty shell. I had left her above with those beings.  In shock, I made a few failed attempts to get out of the car, not knowing why my feet couldn't be lifted.  They were through the floor.  After waking and passing out a few times I saw someone approaching the car.  The man (a passing trucker) saw the flames as he passed and turned back to see if someone was inside.  He was startled by my appearance, told me not to worry, and that he would get help.  I recall being removed from the car by firemen. The fire was now on the dashboard. I regained and lost consciousness many times between the crash site, the hospital in Welland and then the hospital in the U.S.  A couple of weeks later I was in intensive care, and overwhelmed with grief and guilt at having lost a person their life. She came in through my window as a classic 'woman in white' apparition, and again I heard without physically hearing that I shouldn't blame myself and that everything was as it should be. This has been very difficult for me to write.  It still makes me cry.  She then floated out of the door into the hallway, right between two nurses who obviously didn't see her.  I am still amazed by it all.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'December 20,1984'
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury    Other after accident. I regained consciousness before help arrived.  Daredevil-type injuries. Many broken bones and head trauma.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I didn't perceive any change, except for when I was back in my body, passing out and waking up alternately.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Visibility/invisibility of the spirit wranglers

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing telepathically - first the tall invisible humanoids and then my girlfriend.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Four of them, about ten feet tall and invisible, though you could see where they were by a vague, faint outline. They were humanoid in shape.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     park or countryside-like landscape,dimly lit as if in twilight.slightly distant.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A divine love beyond our human ability to comprehend.  We can't feel it here.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     Being turned back before I reached the twilight plateau in front of us. I left my girlfriend there.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'agnostic, but hopeful that we may have reason to believe.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I feel I know something not known by many, but I feel that I wish I knew how to use that to help others. I know we have a place with God after this world, but most religions don't quite have it right. I don't feel that I can follow the paths laid out by other mortal men.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'faithful, but find it difficult to relate to churches, denominations, or existing orders. I feel that I know or have experienced something that few clerics or religious leaders have had real contact with.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I feel I know something not known by many, but I feel that I wish I knew how to use that to help others. I know we have a place with God after this world, but most religions don't quite have it right. I don't feel that I can follow the paths laid out by other mortal men.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The love aura (or vibration) of the tall beings. Now I feel that I know for certain there is more than this mortal world. I feel that our life is a temporary gift, and the feeling of love from those beings is only a small amount of the divine energy. What we do in life is our own choice.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I hope people I have told about it got something from me telling them, but I know how fantastic it sounds. I'm still not sure what I should do with what I now know, but I think people should know that there IS more than this life and we are not alone.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Being out of body, yet still being me. Indirect contact with divinity.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I have always been sort of sensitive to spirits. We had mild poltergeist activity in my parents' house when I was young.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it affected me - dying/flying together, being separated by the tall creatures, feeling the purest love, being sent back and her message to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I think I told a few people while I was still in the hospital. I was there for three months and a week.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard of people going down a tunnel or toward a light.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was too unforgettable and as real as anything.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's as real as any other memory I have of my life experiences.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I hope my story can help or comfort someone.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1william_m_nde_4269.html