{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1william_l_nde.html","mytitle":"William L NDE 5042","mylang":"de"}
          	        William L NDE 5042  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	               		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					William L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2611 William L Possible NDE 5042  					  				  			      			  			  				                                                          			              

Describe the Experience:     

I have chosen to refill this questionnaire and provide a more in depth account as to what I went through leading up to my NDE and shortly after. I had previously submitted a very abbreviated account back in 2008 I believe. That form is under William L # 5042 so you may want to replace that NDE Account with this far more accurate one. Thank You    

  In January of 1998 I had endured a workplace accident involving my shoulder. Over the course of a few years I had endured multiple procedures in order to restore function. Unfortunately, after being prescribed oxycocet (generic) I developed a mental need for this medication but still required it for physical needs and I still need pain meds to this day.    

  It was during this transition that I decided to stop asking for Rx refills because of the stigma. The stigma of appearing as a drug seeker. When dealing with chronic pain, people are often perceived as drug addicts only. Not as a person struggling through chronic and debilitating pain.     

  Therefore, I decided to begin using and abusing an over the counter pain med known as “Tylenol #1” generic version. This medicine consists of 325mg of acetaminophen, 8mg of codeine, and 15mg of caffeine. At this point I truly could care less the impact that could be taking place on my liver and other vital organs. I just wanted to survive and not hate every waking moment of my life. Chronic pain can have a devastating effect on your life force. Literally to the point where you begin to stop caring about life any longer.     

  My daily dosage consisted of 40 pills in the morning and 40 at night consistently. Often there would be a smattering of a few here and there throughout the day as well. Certainly, some people may think that I was enjoying a high while taking these pills. But, that was never the case. I wasn’t chasing a buzz when I would take them.     

  After each of my dosages. It wouldn’t take long before I could sense the 13,000mg of acetaminophen in my system. I was able to taste this drug with every breath. It is a foul taste. We are all well aware of this nastiness. Slight nausea wasn’t long to follow. It really shouldn’t be all that surprising to anyone that I was willing to tolerate these effects. People will drink alcohol only to suffer with a hangover. Smokers and the disgusting smell. Many examples can be given.    

    It’s not hard to imagine that it became necessary to shop around when buying such large quantities of these pills. Even though they are over the counter. Questions are still asked. Often I would buy a bottle of 200 at one store and then go elsewhere to gain another 200 from another location. The idea was that for 4 1/2 to 5 days I didn’t have to worry about getting more.    

I do realize that this sounds like a ridiculous amount of pills but this is the amount to which I had escalated.    

  These pills, all they would do is barely knock the edge off of the pain and dull it down for me a little. While in this ritual of eating 80 or more pills a day. A Pharmacist would accidentally give me the aspirin version. They are virtually the same thing except it has 325mg of aspirin as opposed to acetaminophen. My body had only acclimated to the extreme level of acetaminophen and not aspirin. The fact that I had not noticed I was given the wrong pill type is what was going to kill me only days later.    

  The stupid chain of events that transpired after ingesting my first 40 pill dose of the aspirin version (in the evening) was incredible. Only moments before I was listening to my MP3 player at far too high a volume. So when my ears began to ring from the aspirin. I blamed myself for not listening to my music at a more reasonable volume. This ringing happened all night.     

  As morning approached, I began to feel flu like symptoms. This too was from the excessive amount of aspirin. I was so ill with what I thought was the flu, I decided to take a sick day from work to feel better.     

  Unfortunately, that was not to come to fruition. Simply because with the morning comes another 40 pills and of course I was getting sicker and sicker. 40 more pills for night (120 total at this point), then another sick day with only about another 20 or so pills in the morning and same for the night of my second sick day. I was taking less only because I was feeling nauseated and struggled to keep them down. At this point, I was extremely sick, in fact, I was dying. During this time, I was on my own. I had to try and care for myself since my wife and I lived at different addresses. The two of us had separated May 1st of 2004 and had only been in the process of reconciliation a short time.    

  When my wife got to my home that evening, she convinced me I needed to go to a walk in clinic to see a doctor. My condition had deteriorated to the point where I could barely hear. The ringing in my ears was so loud and it felt as though I was under water. I could barely stand, I was so dizzy. I was on the constant verge of vomiting and my breathing was a struggle. The Doctor felt I just had a really bad dose of the flu and prescribed me some antibiotics to help.    

But, I was going downhill very, very, fast.    

  You see, my little daily regiment of taking massive amounts of pills was my own little secret. I would be seen taking some but the true amount was never known to anyone but myself. I became good at swallowing them. So good at it in fact, I could literally dump the 40 pills into my hand and with a drink swallow them all down at once. Absolutely No problem at all. Anyway, because I was so sick I had begun taking fewer pills in order to keep them down and not throw up.    

  The morning of my third sick day, life was leaving me. My ears were ringing and I could barely hear. My muscles and joints were aching and my breathing was more and more laboured.    

  When my wife got to my home that evening. I had No idea what or who I was from one moment to the next. There would be intervals of cognition only to be followed up by unawareness. I remember swallowing the rest of the pills just before my wife’s arrival. My wife could see how dire my situation was and forcefully urged I go see a Doctor.    

  I was brought to the Emergency Room of our local hospital and all the while still keeping my secret re the pills. The Triage Nurse wasn’t informed of the overdose of aspirin. Now, at this point, I do remember arriving to hospital. My wife had taken me to Hotel Dieu Hospital (HDH). Often times, this hospital is far less busy and wait times are much shorter. Once the Nurse in triage saw me and checked some of my vitals, I was admitted to hospital right away.     

  The hospital that first admitted me decided to transfer me to the main hospital of Kingston called Kingston General Hospital (KGH). It is far better suited to deal with any and all emergency situations. I remember being transported via ambulance. I was moved from bed to gurney and loaded into the back of the ambulance. During transport, my IV was ripped out because I had caught the hose on something. When this happened, I bled far more than is normal. My blood was so thin from the aspirin and it didn’t want to clot.    

  Once arriving at KGH, I was immediately placed under constant supervision of a Nurse. My breathing had become so laboured that I felt it was the fault of the oxygen mask I had on. So, despite being restrained, I managed to remove the O2 mask only to get it immediately placed back on by my Nurse. I wasn’t thinking clearly. I remember she wasn’t very pleased with me. Every time I was able to remove the mask she would have to come in place it back on. No doubt her frustration was building due to the many times I was successful. The bed I was in had a window where a nurse can maintain constant supervision. Multiple times, she would bang on the window and express her annoyance with my efforts. This battle between her and I raged on for quite some time. The situation for me was becoming more and more desperate and I knew it. Many times I requested to see a Doctor and this request seemed to fall on deaf ears. I knew I was in a dire situation and I didn’t have much more time. Literally, only seconds after the Doctor(s) arrival, I told him “tell my wife and kids that I love them”. It was extremely important to me to utter those words. All the while during my battle with the nurse I could feel my decline and I knew time was running out for me. I was continually requesting a Doctor but unbeknownst to me, my case was being discussed in another room, across the hall. At the end of reciting what I felt were extremely important and precious words, I died.    

  This is when it happened. My Near Death Experience. I felt it. The moment I was able to get those words of love out of my mouth a peace came over me. After struggling for days, it was as if a switch had been flipped. Initially I could hear the commotion from the Doctors and Nurses in full fervour of trying to save my life. Dedicated and intelligent professionals sworn to the provision of healing and comfort to those in need. These Professionals swear an oath and hold it dear as they serve the public.    

  This desperate noise declined to No sound at all. I went from a very, very well lit emergency room bay to darkness gradually taking hold. Colours in my vision went from vibrant to muted, then darker, darker, and black. There was a sensation of heaviness in my chest as I fought for each and every breath while pressed upon with chest compressions to an incredible floating feeling. We have all felt this feeling at one point or another. It’s that stomach dropping sensation as we meet the crest of a roller coaster peak and race downward, or, on the return sway of a swing going really high. There are many, many examples for that stomach drop and weightlessness feeling.    

  I knew it. I knew I was leaving my body. I instantly felt better. The suffering of the last few days were gone. I was able to breathe without struggle and my hearing had been restored to normal. No longer did I have a nauseating feeling that had been there for days. Again, it was as if a switch had been thrown. An instantaneous change in what my senses had been telling me. Unfortunately, this calm was not going to last. The weightlessness, the floating feeling, and most importantly, the peace.     

  The peace I had been enjoying for the last few seconds was about to be ripped from me. Like yanking a cane out from under an elderly person that cannot walk without it or a rope torn from your hands. Imagine the near silence and serenity of night to suddenly hearing the shriek of a high pitched scream. It is shocking and instantly unsettling to one’s being. “It” happened. “It”, was my destination. The arrival after my short and desperate trip. Like the pull of a magnet and the snapping into place. I was there. The sentence I had unwittingly bestowed myself. An evaluation had taken place and a decision had been made.    

  The evaluation occurred and I had No awareness of it. There was No presentation of guilt or innocence. Evidence was not provided as proof of guilt. You can’t take the stand to dispute accusations against you. I was not given an opportunity to sway my eternity in the direction of my choice. You are either deserving of Heaven or you are NOT.    

  There are lost souls out there in the world that are serving the Devil and his causes. These Minions of Evil will find themselves wishing. They will be wishing the hands of time to be turned back and allowed to correct their horrible ways. Hell is real. It is a place where all negativity endures. A never ending cycle of the worst your imagination can deliver. If spiders are your worst fear. Then be prepared for an eternity of them. Crawling on you, biting you, and perhaps even burrowing into your skin. This will happen, minute by minute, hour by hour to never ever stop.    

  My first awareness upon arrival, was visual. As I was creeping out of total darkness, I was brought a blur of the colour red. Then sharpening and increasing shades of red. Second by second I was able to distinguish items and things, but they were of varying shades of red.    

  I was to find myself standing atop a catwalk in a post apocalyptic world displayed in the colour red. Decay and filth in all directions. Anywhere I would look the images were moving. The movement was very similar when we look at objects in a distance past the heat coming off a very hot surface such as a paved road. There was No threshold to cross to separate myself from this disturbing place. I saw absolutely No signs of life on any scale. There were No trees or bushes. I couldn’t see any birds flying or animals scurrying about the landscape. It was a dead world as far as I could see or tell. Life had once been here but had long gone away. There were remnants of trees. Buildings that once housed people but had become broken down and destroyed. Similarly like a post war city.    

  Then, I was given the sensation of sound. Slowly, it went from low and muted, to loud and vibrating. I did not hear birds singing, friends laughing, or babies giggling. I heard the lamenting sounds of anguish, cries of torment and the screams of pain. It was constant, close, far away, and all around me. Never again was I to know tranquility and equanimity.    

  I don’t know how I knew, but I did, I wasn’t arriving at a particular horrifying point of arrival in Hell. I hadn’t escaped check-in of Hell’s busy time. It was all the time. A never ending sound coupled by an only red world and I was alone.    

  You see? I could hear others but saw none. Isolation has a lasting effect on you. I was to face what was to come solely on my own. There was No support to be found from others. Others, who will share what will to be imposed. Solace has No place here. The comfort from others would be a strike against one of Satan’s Commandments. The atmosphere was oppressive. As though the air itself was of a laborious weight pushing down and crushing.     

  The smell in this wasteland was disgusting to say the least. It smelled of death like a rotting animal, musty like a basement in an old home, and sewage. It was causing me to want to vomit and there was No escape from it anywhere.    

  It was hot and it was suffocating. The rush of heat that I felt is difficult to express. Maybe similar to when you open an over door except it was all over my body. I saw No relief in sight. There were No bodies of water such as lakes or ponds to offer a reprieve. The feeling was, that as my thirst began to rise because of this Hell, that thirst will never be quenched. It was only to become worse and more agonizing.    

  As I began to walk along this catwalk, I was in search of others. But, simultaneously, I was in fear of who or what I may find. Those other souls could be heard but none could be seen. This is Satan’s depiction of Heaven’s Pearly Gates. The difference being, that atop this catwalk with a aerial view of my new never ending home. I am to spend eternity wanting for all things. In constant pursuit to reverse my deteriorating condition for ever and ever.    

  All that I hold dear and had taken for granted shall never ever be sourced. Imagine all the things you like. Family, friends, people, music, animals, and so on and so on. Whatever you would miss is intentionally is not there. It will cause your soul to yearn and weep for your losses. Desperation for the unattainable.    

  I continued along that catwalk slowly and laboriously, little by little, I was reaching the end. Each step felt as if trudging through a muddy field. I thought it was going to be my way down and the beginning of my self determined destiny. The path I followed in life was not good enough.    

  As I reached the end, I was greeted. Greeted with what was to become my welcome. Below me were monsters. They were horrifying beasts. Unlike anything I knew to be real in life. Creations born from Hell. They were giant worm-like creatures. A chimera of fiendish traits.    

  Inside a wide open mouth. Large enough for me to be swallowed whole, I saw menacing teeth. Giant pointed teeth, contorted in all directions and gnashing with anticipation of my arrival. These beasts were wriggling around with claw adorned legs. Competing for their prize. I was that prize. Countless eyes, could be seen, clearly focused on me. A cat’s eye pupil and as I gazed into these eyes, I sensed intelligence. They weren’t mindless. They were aware, very aware. It was as though they were feeding on my fear.    

  I wasn’t able to resist. I couldn’t stop from taking another step. My independent will had been stripped from me. My mind was saying No but my body marched on. Those last few steps. Onward to the edge and with only a brief moment in time, there was a pause. A fleeting moment. It lasted only long enough so that I could become aware of it. It lasted long enough for me to believe I had gained control again. Control of my legs and feet and perhaps the rest of my body. It didn’t last though. That fleeting moment came and passed and with it went my plunge from the edge. A descent into the mass of writhing and gnawing monsters, coiled and covered in mucous. A chaotic mass clearly of the Devil’s creation.    

  My plummet was swift and the landing hard and unmoving. Scrambling to escape was not an option. There is No retreat to safety in this place. Like being pulled from below, I slowly disappeared into them. My awareness suspended in fear and despair. Sinking, I digested my latest experience and contemplated what might be yet to come. All while drifting into darkness.    

  I never made it out or escaped from that mass of wicked and ravenous abominations. Once the darkness enveloped me it was over. Thankfully there was No repeat of the horrible chain of events I had just gone through. This wasn’t to be my Hell on a never ending cycle of  snapping into place. Finding myself atop that catwalk being drawn towards the end and plummeting into beasts. I am so thankful I only had to endure this once. This single experience has had an everlasting effect on my psyche.    

  I had been placed in an induced coma so as to better control my recovery. After all, in previous days there had been another battle. My body was determined to die but the Doctors and Nurses fought against it. 3 times that fight occurred and 3 times it was the Doctors and Nurses to claim victory. I was to remain in this condition for a few days. I now had a machine breathing for me. A blood dialysis had rid my body of all the aspirin and I had been given potassium.    

  My condition was grim at best during my first couple days of intensive care. My wife had been informed that the likelihood of me surviving was very minimal. The Doctor felt that it would be best that my immediate family be told and offered the ability to say goodbye.    

  Although I had died 3 different times and been brought back. The Doctor truly felt I wasn’t going to make it out of the hospital alive. My body had been starved of oxygen for days. The organs were shutting down and it was unclear as to the damage I had done to myself.    

  The next thing I knew, I was being awakened in a dimly lit hospital room with other patients and Nurses. I was in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). I had been intubated, multiple IVs, monitors, and what looked like a garden hose going into the femoral artery on the inside of my right leg. And YES, a catheter had been placed in me too. It is a very peculiar feeling to have a tube down your throat and having a machine breathing for you.    

  As it turns out. I had 4.5 times the lethal dose of aspirin in my system. My blood had become so thinned out. When I was drawing in oxygen and processing it. Fluid was leaking out and into my lungs. I had been drowning little by little for a few days. This accounts for the struggle in my breathing. The dehydration in the previous days had depleted my potassium level to dangerously low.    

  In the coming days I progressively was getting better. I would be moved to a step down unit where I No longer required 24-7 supervision by my own nurse. I had been moved to a double occupancy room. I was still being closely monitored except my nurse was No longer sitting at a desk at the foot of my bed. My quality of care never diminished. I just required less supervision. Once my catheter and the tube in my femoral artery was removed I was to be transferred again. I was sent to yet another step down unit where I would spend another few days wearing an oxygen hose under my nose. I am very fortunate to have such a loving family. I was visited every day and comforted by their appreciation of me.    

  However, I had been traumatized by my Near Death Experience. I wasn’t sleeping well. I had told my Mom and Dad about my experience but I don’t think they knew how to take it. Both of my parents are Christians and had been Church goers most of their life as had I. The last four days I would spend many, many hours trying to understand why I was delivered to the Devil. It was certainly a harrowing 11 days that I put my family through but come that 11th day, I was able to walk out on my own.    

Background Information:       

Gender: 	Male    

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Nov 2007    

NDE Elements:       

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drug or medication overdose       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)     

Significant aspirin overdose. Reportedly, 4.5 times the lethal dose I learned later from my General Practitioner.    

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing    

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could hear the medical staff urgently trying to save my life.    

I clearly left my body and existed outside it    

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I suppose it was because I knew I was in Hell and that I had been sent there to endure for an eternity.    

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I would have to say it was after all my senses had been restored.    

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No    

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No       

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual    

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Same    

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Possibly the same except perhaps it was better because I could hear very distressing sounds in the distance. I’m unsure.    

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No    

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No         

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No    

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No         

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No    

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   An all red environment filled of varying shades of red.    

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     It was an apocalyptic landscape. Total devastation and solitary.    

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I first felt relieved because I instantly felt better from the symptoms that had brought me to hospital.    

After my arrival in Hell it was all negative such as fear, horror, alone, scared of what was to come, and bewildered as to why I had been sent to Hell.    

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No    

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No    

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No    

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     About myself I suppose. I had the feeling I was where I belonged. I had been the one that chose this path for myself because of how I had lived my life.    

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No         

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No         

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No       

God, Spiritual and Religion:       

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   I am a believer of Christianity but was not a church goer at the time.    

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No         

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I am still a believer in Christianity but still don’t attend church.    

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had always believed that generally I was a good person. I cared for the plight of others. It has left me confused as to why this ending had been chosen for me. My summary to this experience could only be (I believe somewhat) is that I am to share this experience to save others. Similar to Jacob Marley in Charles Dickens “A Christmas Carol”.    

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No         

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No       

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No    

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Well, without seeing Satan I seemed to be aware that it was his domain to which I had been sent. It was an all negative world. It only stands to reason that there must be a place opposite in nature.    

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:       

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Our impact on the world as we go through life decides our fate. Are we leaving a positive result through experiences or are they negative. Then such as a scale the positive is weighed against the negative.    

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I knew I had been sent to Hell after my senses were returning to me.    

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     We need to provide a trail of positivity throughout our lifetime.    

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     I’m unsure as to how to provide an answer to this question.    

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No         

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     Since being sent to Hell doesn’t exactly make sense to me because of how I did live my life. As stated earlier, I am to tell others about Hell and what points us in that direction. However, I am not 100% firm in that belief. I have had people tell me it was all just a dream. Alternatively, this so-called dream has weighed on my psyche for the last 15 years and was the most realistic and disturbing of my life. I don’t believe it to have been a dream but I can say I am only 90% sure of that which leaves the 10% possibility that it was just a dream.    

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Unsure.    

After the NDE:       

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No       

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th  I remember it more clearly.    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No         

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it. It has elevated my belief in the afterlife. Although not to the point of total confidence.    

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared my experience not long after my breathing tube was removed.    

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I may have seen something on tv but obviously I am unsure.    

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I am intelligent enough to think that perhaps it was just because of neurons firing in my brain but I would have to think that is not what I truly believe. However small, there is that chance though.    

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     It’s because of how vivid it was and the ever lasting effect it has had on me. I think about this experience a few times weekly still.    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Can a Hellish NDE such as mine cause PTSD? I see No mention of it in my experience while searching about NDEs including NDERF.org.    

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Perhaps a section set aside specifically towards those who experience a negative NDE. </span></span>    


        					Experience Description: 5042  					</p>  					Day one at hospital, I experienced two deaths with no account of an NDE. 

Day two at the hospital, I experienced my third death and the NDE. At the time of the NDE I was in much distress and knew that I was about to die. I had enough time to tell the hospital staff to express my love for my family and slowly slipped away from life. I had a feeling of leaving my body in total darkness and suddenly found myself atop a mezzanine metal catwalk in an industrial setting. Everything in this environment was a different shade of red but distinguishable. It was then that I fell from an edge flipping, flipping, flipping, down until I landed into a vast pile of gigantic 'worm-like' creatures possessing large claws and teeth. When I first landed on them I was on top of them and then slowly slipped beneath them.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Nov. 2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Accidental overdose. Body had 4.5 times the lethal dose at death experience.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Accidental overdose on aspirin with codeine. Body had four and half times the lethal dose at death experience.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was falling knowing where I was going to land and of course on what!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Environment was different shades of red.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Worm-like creatures.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Terror and sadness. A sense that I deserved it.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Unable to express.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Shared it with family and friends since waking from this in the intensive care unit at the hospital. Mixed reactions and uncertain if it caused any influence on them.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Television shows and had no effect.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I couldn't believe I went where I went. I had always believed that I was a relatively 'good' person and that I would likely go to heaven or experience peace when I move on to spirit.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have been unable to stop thinking about it and why I went where I went.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Not that I can think of at this time.    </p></span>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1william_l_nde.html