{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1willem_nde.html","mytitle":"Willem NDE 5133","mylang":"de"}
          	        Willem NDE 5133  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Willem NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2670 Willem NDE 5133  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Then I came into a tunnel/or better; it felt like I went up in spirals. The light was blue-green (it could have been the water) and there was a peaceful sound (not music but 'sound'). I arrived and there was a 'person in light' waiting. He/she took me by the hand and we just stood there for a while. It felt like getting home; more THIS WAS HOME. The person in the light and I were totally equal; there was only love without any boundary. And then I was told to go back. I did not want to; I was ordered to go back because there were 'things for me to do down there'.

Suddenly I was back and I saw some people on the road by the side of the river being busy (they were trying to get the water out of my lungs). That is it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1956

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  I just slipped and fell into the water  Other nearly drown  I fell into the water; the shock made me take a deep breath (twice); my lungs filled with (salt) water.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I stood there hand in hand with the person of light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I stood there hand in hand with the person of light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time; there was only eternity.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     A child of two years old has no vision of himself. There I had an extreme vision of 'existing'.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard a 'sound' that I cannot describe. It was no voice or music but just a heavenly sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     See above; it was more like a spiral that took me up.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A person in light.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   First there was a light that I went up to. It appeared to be a person in light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was all in all beautiful. For me it just felt like being home --> the place where I came from --> the place where I wanted to stay.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It felt 'normal'.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I was forced to go back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I was too young for any of this

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was send back to fulfill a task (but I was not told what it was).

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Especially after reading ACiM ('A Course in Miracles') - the love that is written in that book comes close to the experience.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I was too young to tell; when I began to realize what I had experienced (I was seventeen or eighteen). I first thought it was just 'something wrong in my head'. Now it is difficult to talk about it because there are no words to describe. This world has no language to give words to the feeling/experience that you have.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     This experience is strong but at my age (two or three years old) it is easily integrated in life. Most of the paranormal things that happened where 'normal' for me.  It took a long time to realize that 'my world' was totally different from the world of other people around me. I sometimes feel like Harry Potter; a wizard in a world of muggels (I don't know if that is the correct word - in Dutch it's 'deuzels').

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, I was very sad to be told to go back to where I came from. I did not want to leave.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The first one I told was my wife; about twenty-five years after the event. She reacted very well. My children know about it. One colleague knows about it.  Yes, they are influenced by it.  They judge my statements as a prediction and use it, as 'well if he says so - then it will be so'. That makes me cautious in what to say or what to hold back.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I try to doubt my experience because sometimes it would make life today much easier; but I can't. It is part of me and I have to move on.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It is something I would not have missed (it is my treasure); and at the same time I sometimes wish it did not happen because it makes you an 'outsider' in this world.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Thank you for reading this story.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1willem_nde.html