{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1william_e_nde.html","mytitle":"William E NDE 698","mylang":"de"}
          	        William E NDE 698  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					William E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						218  William E NDE  698  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

When I was ten years old, my parents got a divorced. It was 1976, October I think. Anyway, our family was split up, and before I knew it, I was living with my grandparents. After a short time, I came to realize that our family was never going to be together again. I went to bed one night very upset, crying and hyperventilating. Somewhere in that time frame I was face down in my pillow because I did not want my grandparents to hear me.


I guess I lost consciousness at this time I began to feel very light and a little dizzy. The next thing I saw was my body below me. It was very pale looking and not moving, face down in the pillow, but to me it wasn't me because I was here above this body that was mine. I guess about five feet above it and then I got this pulling feeling like the way the current pulls you at the beach when the tide goes out. Then I started to rotate until I was facing the corner of the ceiling. At this time, there was an explosion of white very, very bright light.


Then the room started to fade away and this light took the shape of a tunnel that surrounded me; at this time I was being pulled at a high rate of speed and there was somebody with me, I felt safe and loved and at peace. This person was transparent but I could still see him smiling at me and saying to me, but not talking with his mouth, but his mind telling me, 'Everything is fine.' Then at that moment, we were in this place of beautiful warm light and millions and millions of people all saying, 'The time is near. Be ready for the day.' It was like a loud roar, but very loving the way it was said and the music was like nothing I have ever heard to this day; it went right through you and you were the music as well.


Then I saw this being of light. Very bright, so bright that you could not look at this being. I tried to look but it was much too bright and this voice said to me, 'It's not your time. You have much to learn, go learn. Don't worry; you shall be with me someday. Go from me now.'


I didn't want to go but I had no choice in the matter. I started to be turned and pulled back towards the light of the tunnel except it was much faster than before. Then the next thing I knew I was going back through the light and into my room. Then I saw my body and I didn't want to go back at all. I fought with everything I had but I just was slammed right into my body, it was cold stiff heavy. Then I felt this cold air rushing into my lungs and I heard a voice say, 'Breath.' Then I was awake and coughing and gagging and shaking because I was so, so cold, but I could not move well at all. After a while, I started to move a little better and got warmer. After that, I got into religion. I was reading Oral Roberts books and the Bible, even though I didn't understand much of it I wanted to learn.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    April 1977

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Accident  suffocated face down in pillow, by accident  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Light, like air, but I also felt like I was in a compact form or compression of some type but free at the same time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very alert and conscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    A rushing noise when I first left my body like water and horns very tinny sounding but nice.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Bright light and a never ending in length spiral shape.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Transparent to a certain extent. They talk through your mind not by mouth. I did not know them but felt like I always knew them somehow.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Yes, white very, very bright but warm and peaceful.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The place was full of beautiful warm light and steps in the shape of a pyramid style.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     We are loved completely without limits and we must learn - what I'm not sure because I'm still trying to learn and love the best I can.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was made to go back by God. I did not want to go he said go now and that was that I was on my way back.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   I was only 11 at the time. but I believe my family was Methodist, and then Lutheran. didn't go to church much at all. Always had strong feelings about religion.

What is your religion now?      Liberal   I'm a Lutheran now, but I've also been a Baptist, Methodist, church of god.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes      I wanted to know more about God.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     This scares me a little I've asked God many times to take it back please. I see, or should I say feel, the ones that are no longer alive, as we know them to be. And know some things that happen before they happen, like a heightened felling.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Being with God the best. Going back to my body the worst.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Most don't believe me but I don't care what they think or say. But it has stopped me from taking about much any more. That's why I can't believe that I'm doing this.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Not sure.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1william_e_nde.html