{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1will_y_nde.html","mytitle":"Will Y NDE 21434","mylang":"de"}
          	        Will Y NDE 21434  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Will Y NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1000  Will Y NDE  21434  					  				  			    					      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I am a big softy person and I love everybody.  I had a pregnant wife for the second time but tried to solve my lover's problems first.  The result was two loves and a confused brain’s decision to wrap it around a concrete lamppost at a hundred miles per hour.  I was successful.  I looked at myself lying there from the outside of the crumpled car.  A voice standing beside me was saying, ‘Well, it's your choice to do you want.  You can follow the light or continue on earth and face the music.’  I replied that I would face the music.  On that answer, I awoke outside and facing the car crumpled up fifty feet away from the lamppost.  At that same moment, a council lamp repair vehicle with two guys in it appeared from nowhere.  I asked them for a lift home, which was twelve miles away.  From there my wife took me to hospital. My injuries were a fractured skull, broken nose, cracked pelvis, broken ribs, broken foot, and a broken arm, (which was done when I put a forearm smash into the door to get out).

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    Sept 1980

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Suicide attempt     Delayed Trauma.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Eyes looking towards the lifeless body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was wide awake.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     As it happened to me, I was like a bystander watching the event.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     He gave me the choice to go to the light and throw in the towel or try again and face the music.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   To my left, over my shoulder, was a bright piercing light.  Also to my left was the voice that was talking to me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      None.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     The choice of accepting or refusing.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   The choice to follow the light or face the music.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I have more depression.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I feel the world’s troubles and people’s remorse. I flood tears at every sad event. People’s pain and sadness fills me with tears.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Knowing there is life after death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I got pissed again five years later and still did not manage to go to the light! I got back to a hospital three hundred fifty miles from the event covered in blood with only a fractured skull. And again the car was a write-off.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      To all you out there: learn from it.  Use my experience to better yourself and not as I did to ignore it.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Yes, ask for the truth.  I am happy to fill in the twenty-five years since my experience to let you know how life dealt the cards after that.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1will_y_nde.html