{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1willane_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Willane T NDE 438","mylang":"de"}
          	        Willane T NDE 438  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Willane T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1290 Willane T NDE 438  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As I sat in the car and turned on the ignition, my left leg went numb. The car did not start and I got out looking under the hood. As I stood by the side of the car, the numbness began to spread through my body; my heart began to pound in my ears. I called out for help and a woman went to find a security guard. By the time he arrived, my body was shaking uncontrollably and the pain around my chest tightened until I could not breathe. The blood was pounding in my head and it felt as though my brain would explode. At the same time, there was a feeling of being an observer at the event. I knew I was dying and I remember looking around and thinking 'this is it' and a feeling of sadness for the separation from my children. I felt so foolish to be dying in a parking lot outside a grocery store. There was no dignity to dying on the street.

I heard the security guard say, 'There she goes,' and my body fell to the ground. The ambulance pulled up and I could see them putting me in the back. I was seeing it from the same vantage point as standing by the car. As they pulled away, I began to dissolve and went off into energy fragments, which no longer had thought. I awoke at the hospital where the doctor accused me of faking a seizure to get attention.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 10, 2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    It was a beautiful day. For once things were going very well in my life. I had a job, I was painting, my children were well and I was looking forward to the future after several years of hard struggle.   I had a seizure during which my heart stopped. It was caused by an undiagnosed brain abscess.  The brain abscess could have killed me, but at the time the doctors had no idea what was going on. I was released and six days later returned to the emergency room with cerebral meningitis and partial paralysis. It took an operation and the removal of most of my teeth. I spent almost three months in bed. Went through long physical rehabilitation and now find I have no reason to live.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw my body on the gurney from the vantage point of standing by the car.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was totally alert until sometime after my body separated from my consciousness.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Non-being is definitely an altered state.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, acceptance, dissolution.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     There was no continuation of me as a conscious being and any experiences of such would have been the result of whatever belief system was in place in the eternity between the heart stopping and the brain shutting down.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     There was no review, but there was no fear of judgment either.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I had come to believe there is no personal god and more than likely no afterlife that continued with this consciousness. I do believe the universe recycles...in what for I have no idea.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I can see no reason for my return and have been plagued with thoughts of suicide. It all seems so senseless and I am beginning to lose interest in continuing to experience consciousness.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   After separating from my body there was a dissolution of consciousness in which I ceased to be. There was no reward or punishment, just non-being.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Not finding a reason for surviving it is the worst part. Not fearing judgment is the best.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They did not want to hear that I found no tunnel, no light, no happy relatives and no redeeming reason for returning.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wish I could say that some profound good had come of all this or that I had found a purpose for living, instead, it seems to have robbed me of my joy in existence.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1willane_t_nde.html