{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V21 1923-24","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v21_1923-24.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V21 1923-24","mylang":"de"}
JOURNAL
OF THE
iety for Psychical Resea
VOLUME XXI
1923— 1924
For Private Circulation anions^ Members
and Associates only
THE SOCIETYS ROOMS
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.i.
All rights reserved
Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2015
https://archive.org/details/journalofsociety21soci
No. CCCXCI.—Vol. XXI.
1^-—
—
January, 1923.
, ? > i \ » ?
•
> .
> 'J "
'> V
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A CONVERSAZIONE
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i,
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7th, 1923, ni 4 p.m.
Tea will be provided between 4 and 5 p.m., and it is hoped that
one or two short communications may be read
// is 7-equested tliat all Alevibers and Associates wlio intend to be
present unll inform the Secretary heforeliand, so tliat site may arrany^e
about tile tea. Members and Associates who wish to bring a friend are
asked to apply to the Secretary for a ticket not later thanJannaiy 31, 1923.
N.E.
—
Members and Associates ivili be admitted on signi/ig their names at
t/ie door. Visitors ivill be admitted on productio>i of an invitation
card signed by a Memlier or Associate, Each Member or Associate
is alhnved to invite one friend. •
^215034
2 Journal ^
of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1923.
NEW MEMBERS.
Bracht, Federico, C'aiigallo 466, Buenos-Aires, Argentine Bepublic.
Clark, Major Stanley, c/o Culliford and Clark, 80 Bishopsgate,
London, E.G. 2.
Cromer, Katharine Countess of, 29 Marlborough Place, London,
N.W. s.
Gibbes, Miss Beatrice, 24 Sloane Street, London, S.W. L
Hyland, Charles W., 300 Commissioner Street, Johannesburg,
East, Tnuisviial.
Martin, W. T„ Ora Cabessa P.O., St. Mary, Jamaica.
Pollock, Dr. Alexander N., c/o Mascard, 280 Bath Street,
Glasgow.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 195th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Wednesday, November 29th, 1922,
at 2.30 p.m. ; Mr. J. G. Piddington in the chair. There
were also present : Captain E. N. Bennett, the Hon. Everard
Feilding, Sir Lawrence Jones, Miss M. Radclyffe-Hall, Mr.
W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mr. Sydney C. Scott ; and
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick and Dr. V. J. WooUey, Hon. Secretaries.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council on the
communications from the British College were read.
Proposed by Mr. J. G. Piddington and seconded by Mr.
W. H. Salter :
" That the Hon. Secretaries and the Hon.
Treasurer of the Society be requested to draw up a Statement
to be offered to Light and jninted in the Journal in connexion
with the Price-Hope controversy."
Carried nem. con.
The 196th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Scjuare, London, W.C., on Tuesday, December r2th, 1922, at
3.0 p.m. ; the Rt. Hon. Gerald W. Balfour in the chair.
There were also jsresent : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir WilUam F.
Barrett, the Hon. Everard Feilding, Sir Lawrence Jones, Sir
Oliver Lodge, Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ; also
Mr. E. J. Dingwall, Research Officer, and Miss I. Newton,
Secretary.
Jan., 1923. Meetings of the Council. 3
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were
read and signed as correct.
Seven new Members were elected. Their names and
addresses are given above.
The monthly Account for November, 1922, was presented
and taken as read.
The Council filled the vacant place among their elected
members caused by the death of Mr. Bayfield by appointing
to it the Hon. Editor, Mrs. Salter, hitherto a co-opted member.
The Council wish to place on record their appreciation of
Mr. Scott's generosity in conducting the legal business relative
to the acquisition of the Society's new premises without charge
to the Society.
MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY.
The 73rd Private Meetmg of the Society was held in the
Coimcil Chamber at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on
Tuesday, October 17th, 1922, at 5 p.m. ; The President in
the chair.
Me. Sydney E. Hooper, M.A., read a paper entitled, " An
Experimental Study of the Appreciation of Time by Somnam-
bules," which, it is hoped, will be pubhshed later in the
Proceedings.
The 7'ith Private Meeting of the Society was held in the
Hall of the Mary Ward Settlement, Tavistock Place, London,
W.C., on Tuesday, November llth, 1922, at 4.45 p.m. ; the
Rt. Hon. Gerald W. Balfour in the chair.
Mr. J. G. PiDDiNGTON read the first part of a paper entitled,
" Forecasts in Scripts concerning the War."
The 75th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the
Hall of the Mary Ward Settlement, Tavistock Place, London,
W.C., on Tuesday, December 12th, 1922, at 4.45 p.m. ; the
Rt. Hon. Gerald W. Balfour in the chair.
Mr. J. G. PiDDiNGTON read the second part of the paper
entitled, " Forecasts in Scripts concerning the War."
The fuU paper will be pubhshed later, it is hoped, in the
Proceedings.
4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1923.
OBSERVATIONS ON MR. PRICE'S SITTING WITH
MR. HOPE.
The issue of Light of the 25tli November, 1922, contains an
article contributed by Mr. Hewat M'Kenzie, and entitled,
" Total Collapse of the Price-Hope Case." This article is of
a most misleading nature, and at the request of the Council
we sent a short reply to Light at the first opportunity. In
fairness, however, to the various Members of the Society
criticised in the article, we feel that we ought to set before
the Society as a whole a more detailed resume of the facts
and of the conclusions which we think should be drawn from
them.
In the May Journal of the S.P.R. Mr. Price described in
detail an experiment with Mr. Hope, for the purpose of which
a packet of six plates, each containing a mark which would
only appear on development, was prepared by the Imperial
Dry Plate Co.
The plates were sent by the Company to Mr. Price in a
postal packet, within which was a close-fitting brown paper
wrapper, the ends of which were stuck down, a paper label
being pasted so as to cover the ends of both flaps. Inside
this wrapper was the box containing the plates.
Mr. Price received this packet on the 30th January, and
handed it, as it was received by him, to Mr. Moger, a neigh-
bour, who put it in a large envelope, which he sealed. Out-
side this again Mr. Moger put a postal wrapper, and posted
the packet to the S.P.R. There were, therefore, at this stage
four wrappers outside the box—Mr. Moger's postal wrapper,
his sealed envelope, the Company's postal wrapjjer, and the
Company's labelled wrapper. When received by the S.P.R.
the packet remained in the charge first of the Secretary and
then of the Research Officer of the S.P.R., until it was
dehvered by the Research Officer, exactly as received from
Mr. Moger, to Mr. Price on the morning, and very shortly
before the sitting of February 24th.
Mr. Dingwall then removed Mr. Moger's postal wrapper and
his sealed envelope, and the packet was taken to the British
College of Psychic Science and laid before Mr. Hope and
Jan'., 1923. Observations on Mr. Price's Sitting with Mr. Hope. 5
Mrs. Buxton in the postal wrapper in whicli it had been
despatched by the Company. This postal wrapper was then
removed in their presence, and in the presence of Mr. Seymour
W'ho accompanied Mr. Price, and the labelled wrapper was
closely scrutinised by both Mr. Hope and Mrs. Buxton. Mr.
Hope gave Mr. Price a dark slide to examine, and Mr. Price
made certain secret marks on it. Finally, in the dark room
Mr. Hope cut open the labelled wrapper, and two plates from
the packet were loaded into the marked slide.
Mr. Price observed that the shde put subsequently into the
camera was not marked. Two exposures were taken at the
sitting, and on the two plates being developed the marks
affixed by the Company appeared on neither of them.
After despatch by the Company the plates passed through
the hands of four persons—Mr. Price, Mr. Moger, the Secretary
and the Research Officer. Each of them declares positively
that he or she did not in any way tamper \vith the outer
w^rapping as he or she received it, except that, as already
stated, Mr. Dingwall removed Mr. Moger's postal wrapper and
sealed envelope on handing the plates to Mr. Price, who at the
College removed the Company's postal wrapper. Since the
pubhcation of the article in Light we have questioned Mr.
Price, Mr. Seymour, the Research Officer and the Secretary
in detail, and we have seen a written statement by Mr. Moger,
Avho is in poor health, as to his part in the transaction. There
is no discrepancy between the accounts given by any of them,
and, as regards what took place at the College in the presence
of Mr. Hope and Mrs. Buxton, Mr. Price's account is con-
firmed by Mr. Seymour.
As they are all responsible persons, their first-hand evidence
cannot be rejected, unless clear contradictory evidence can be
adduced.
Mr. M'Kenzie attempts to discredit their evidence by stating
that, when on the 5th of November he first examined the
Company's labelled Avrapper, he saw signs that the label had
been disturbed, and by quoting a letter of the 13th November
from the Company, in which they state that they are " of
opinion that one end of the label has been unstuck from the
\frapper and folded back, so as to leave the '
ear ' of the
A 2
6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1923.
brown paper wrapping uncovered. This '
ear '
also appears to
show signs of having been unstuck and refolded." The
suggestion obviously made by Mr. M'Kenzie is that the labelled
wrapper was tampered wdth before the sitting of the 24th
February by some one of the four persons who had then had
possession of the packet, and unless this can be shown, the
whole of Mr. M'Kenzie's case falls to the ground.
The labelled wrapper, which is the property of the S.P.R.,
has, together with several other articles relating to the case
lent by the S.P.R., been most improperly retained by the
College, notwithstanding requests by the Council of the S.P.R.
for its return. It has admittedly been subjected to much
rough usage since it was first opened ; it was left lying about
during the sitting, at the close of which it was crammed into
Mr. Price's pocket, and it has since been in the hands of
numerous persons, as appears from Mr. M'Kenzie's report.
On the evidence before us (and two of us have never seen
the wrapper at any stage) we cannot say with certainty that
the marks on the wrapper were not innocently produced by
tliis rough usage. For the purpose of argument, however, we
are prepared to assume that the labelled wrapper has in fact
been tampered with at some time.
Now, neither Mr. M'Kenzie himself, nor his Committee, nor
the manufacturers of the plates, whom we have questioned as
to the meaning of their letter of the 13th November, claim
that the present state of the wrapper shows that the assumed
tampering took place before any date earlier than the 4th of
November, when Mr. M'Kenzie took charge of it, and, as
already stated, unless it can be shown to have taken place
before the 24th February, there is a " total collapse " of Mr.
M'Kenzie's case.
It can, we tliink, on the contrary, be proved beyond all
reasonable doubt that the Company's labelled wrapper did not
at the time of the sitting bear the marks of " tampering
"
which it now bears.
If, as the suggestion apparently is, the labelled wrapper was
opened for the purpose of extracting two of the Imperial Dry
Plate Company's marked plates, and substituted two unmarked
plates, this scheme could only succeed if Mr. Price, who
Jan., 1923. Observations on Mr. Price's Sitting ivith Mr. Hope. 7
selected the two plates taken from the box at the sitting,
were at least privy to it. Otherwise the chances were four-
teen to one that at least one of the two plates selected would
have been a marked one, and at least one unmarked plate
would have been left in the box and discovered afterwards
when developed (.see S.P.R. Journal, pj). 281-2).
Now, Mr. Price is a skilled " magician," and it is incon-
ceivable that, if he had been a party to a fraud of this kind,
he would have carried it out, or allowed a collaborator to
carry it out, so clumsily as to invite immediate detection by
Mr. Hope or Mrs. Buxton.
But if, for the sake of argument, even this degree of
clumsiness and stupidity on his part be assumed, is it credible
that any one fraudulent enough to be a party to such a
scheme should not have taken the first opportimity of covering
up his tracks, either by cutting the wrapper open at the
sitting in such a way as to obliterate all trace that it had
been tampered with, or by destroying the wrapper, the pre-
servation of wliich was not necessary to prove liis case 1 The
fact that Mr. Price adopted neither of these courses appears
to us conclusive evidence, were any needed, of his bona
fides.
It is not, however, necessary to explore Mr. Price's hypo-
thetical motives, as both Mr. Price and Mr. Seymour testify
that the packet was carefully examined by Mr. Hope and
Mrs. Buxton, who apparently saw nothing suspicious in the
condition of the wrapper.
Moreover, Mr. M'Kenzie's article does not in any way meet
Ml'. Price's evidence that the sHde used for the exposure was
not the sUde into which he had placed the two plates. Unless
it can be shown that this is a pure invention on his part, it
is quite immaterial whether or not the manufacturers' label
had been tampered with.
We do not feel called upon to make any suggestion as to
the time when, or the person by whom, the crease and other
suspicious marks, stated now to be visible on the wrapper,
were produced. Since the wrapper was lent to the College
several persons appear to have had access to it. The direct
request of the Council for information as to what has happened
8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 3923.
to it since it left the Society's hands has not yet been
answered.
It is, however, significant that the insinuations as to the
wrapper having been tamj)ered with were only made when
other attempts to discredit Mr. Price's report had broken
down, and apparently as an afterthought. No request by
Mr. M'Kenzie for the loan of the wrapper was made until
the 23rd of October.
Mr. M'Kenzie airily dismisses as " frivolous " all questions
as to the plate bearing the Imperial Dry Plate Co.'s mark
which came into the Society's possession after the sitting, as
stated on p. 282 of the May Journal. Tliis plate was
contained in one of two anonymous packets purporting to
come from the College, and we see no reason whatever to
doubt that they in fact did so. It is not difficult to suppose
that the sender of the anonymous packet was aware of Mr.
Price's experiment ; for according to Mr. Price's account two
marked plates were left at the CoUege in the dark shde into
which they were loaded. Only one of them has been returned.
The other may well have been developed at the College by
Mr. Hope himself, who would thus become aware of its being
marked, and that, therefore, Mr. Price must have discovered
the substitution practised on him. That the S.P.R. might
know something of the matter would be a not unreasonable
conjecture, Mr. Price being a member of it.
The real significance, in our opinion, of the " anonymous
"
plate is that it is a complete disj)roof of the suggestion at
one time put forward that the two plates exposed at the
sitting might have been two of the plates marked by the
Company, and that the non-appearance of the marks was due
to faulty exposure and/or development. This suggestion
is otherwise negatived by Mr. Price's evidence as to the
change of slides. But, putting this aside for the moment,
and also disregarding for the moment the fact that the
evidence is altogether against faulty exposure or de-
velopment, and the remarkable difference in thickness
between the exposed plate brought back from the sitting and
all the four unexposed plates, the suggestion would be possible
only if the Company had marked nine plates, whereas they
Jan., 1923. Ohservations on Mr. Price's Sitting ivith Mr. Hope. 9
only marked eight. Seven of tliese are now in tlie Society's
possession and have been developed. Whence, then, came
the two plates exposed and developed at the sitting ?
In conclusion, after carefully examining the case afresh, we
are satisfied that the report contained in the May Journal is
true as regards the facts, and that the inferences there drawn
from the facts are fair and reasonable. In so far as Mr.
M'Kenzie's article makes insinuations—for no overt charges
are brought—of mala fides against any of the Members of the
Society who took part in the experiment, we consider these
insinuations absolutely disproved.
We cannot but express our surprise and regret that six
Members of the Society should have been found willing to
support Mr. M'Kenzie in his unfounded attacks on their fellow-
members, and in preventing the Society from recovering pro-
perty voluntarily lent by it.^ Their action in this respect is
to the best of our knowledge unparalleled in the whole history
1 Postscript.—Since the above statement was sent to the printers
fvirther correspondence has taken place between the Society and the
British College of Psychic Science in connexion with a proposal by the
Committee of the College to submit the wrapper to a chemist for
analysis of the adhesive. In the course of this correspondence Mr.
M'Kenzie was invited to disclaim any intention of making charges
involving mala fides against any Members or Officials of the S.P.R.
Mr. M'Kenzie personally has omitted to take any notice of this in-
vitation, but a letter dated 18th December, 1922, from the College
Conmaittee contains the following passage :
" No charge of bad faith
has been or is being made against any Member or Official of the S.P.R.
in connexion with the Price-Hope enquiry, but we are quite convinced
there has been some questionable dealing of which the S.P.R. as well
as ourselves may be the victims."
That insinuations against the good faith of Members and Officials of
the S.P.R. were made in Mr. M'Kenzie's article is beyond doubt. If
and so far as the Committee 'wish, however tardily, to dissociate them-
selves from Mr. M'Kenzie's insinuations, we welcome their disclaimer.
Who the mysterioiis person or persons may be who by " questionable
dealing " have -victimised both the S.P.R. and the College Committee
does not interest us deeply. The solution of the mystery could not
affect the validity of Mr. Price's evidence.
E. M. S.
V. J. W.
W. H. S.
^
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1923.
of the S.P.R. If Members have any complaint or criticism
to make against their fellow-members in matters relating to
the Society's work, their proper course is to lay the matter
before the Council, and not exploit it through an outside
organisation, or in the columns of the pubhc press.
The Coimcil are still anxious to give Mr. Hope an opportimity
of demonstrating whether he can produce genuine phenomena
under fair test conditions.
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
v. j. woolley.
W. H. Salter.
CASE.
L. 1240.
The case which we print below has been sent to us by
one of our Members whom Ave will call here Mr. McClure.
The names and addresses of all persons concerned are known
to us, but we have been asked not to print them.
The interest of the case lies in the fact that some friends
of Mr. McClure's, Mr. and Miss Crane (pseudonym) obtained
through the ouija board a message purporting to come from
Mr. McClure's father, who was dead, and relating to certain
conditions in Mr. McClure's Ufe at the time which were unknown
to the automatists. There is a further point of mterest in
that at the hour that the message was obtained Mr. McClure
in his own home had a strong impression that " some one
"
wished to commimicate with him and his wife.
The first report of the incident reached us in a letter
from Mr. McClure to the Secretary, as follows :
June 24, 1922.
On Friday night, 2lst April, 1922, about 9 p.m., my wife and
1 were sitting in our rooms at , Bushey. I got a very
strong impression that " someone was there," and said so to my
wife, but as we both were tired (she especially so), we took
no further notice. As a rule, when these " impressions " come,
my wife tries for automatic writing, or (lees frequently) we use
the ouija board.
Jan., 1923. Case. 11
Nest day, our friend Mr. A. R. [Crane], called round and said
that on the previous evening, about 9 p.m., he and his sister
had felt urged ^ to go to the ouija board. A. R. C. is very
" sensitive," but his sister more usually acts as recorder at any
sittings. On this evening they worked together, and with great
difficulty, and very slowly, the following was spelt out. The
notes were taken by Miss C.,^ and I copy from her typescript.
The message meant nothing to them, but A. R. C. brought it
round to my wife, wondering if it might be intelligible to us.
It was—entirely so.
" Am I here for K ?
" 2
(A. R. C. No, K. is not here.)
" He is coming " ?
(A. R. C. Not that we know of.)
" Tell him Mrs. [McClure] is . . . make my daughter try to
write."
(A. R. C. Do you mean Mrs. [McClure] ?)
" Yes."
"
.
•
(A. R. C. Have you failed to make her write when you
wished to do so ?)
" My son must know that we will try to help him."
(A. R. C. We are sure he knows that.)
" See if he can come soon to this house. My hope is that
he will find his help here."
(A. R. C. asks if it is easier to write here ?) ...
" I think he likes to come."
(A. R. C. We went to their rooms to-day, but they were
out. We had expected to see them, and wondered why
they had not turned up.)
" He is very worried. Do help him."
(A. R. C. Did you hear me say that we tried to find them
to-day ?)
" Yes. Will you help him to find joy and peace for them
both ? Yet my normal thought is that she is helping
him."
(A. R. C. notes here that one or two words are doubtful in
the foregoing sentence, but that he was unable to get
them repeated.)
See below Mr. Crane's comment. ^ See below p. 14.
12 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1923.
" My own simple life was easy, his is hard. He, more
than she, is needing help. She loves him. . . . pity
him . . . fight [confusion here] . . . my own simple life
was not more hard work. More trials will come if he
thinks his father lets him alone. Give him your friend-
ship. He needs hope more than faith, my best wishes
more than gifts [sic]. Time is short. Make him come
here soon. My destiny is to him more than his wife."
(A. R. C. asked further about the meaning of this last
sentence.)
" Desire is to help him. ..." -
(A. R. C. suggests " more than his wife ? ")
"Yes."
(A. R. C. That is most natural, we tliink.)
"Now she will make him happy; this is all I wish. You
are tired. My thanks to you."
. . . The time of the message (circa 9 p.m. on April 22) coincides
with the time when I got my " impression." The opening
words " make my daughter try to write " are apposite, as that
is just what she had refused to do, and it is worth noting that
in all communications from my father, he always refers to my
wife as " my daughter," not " my daughter-in-law "—a fact
of which A. R. C!. was ignorant.
The whole burden of the message (the desire to " help " me)
is singularly appropriate, as I was going into London practically
every day for a course of treatment by a doctor, and it is
quite true that his own life, which was strenuous but very
successful, was " not more hard work " than my own, hampered
by ill-health, has always been. Of this, too, A. R. C. was
ignorant.
This is the first time A. R. 0. has ever had a communication
from him (or read one that has come to us), and yet that phrase
" not more hard work " is typical of my father's " style " over
the board. He will never use the board if he can get my wife
to write, and when he does, he shows an extraordinary fondness,
for comparatives like " more hard " and for monosyllables be-
ginning with " m " or " n." This has been very noticeable.
Will you please let me know what you think of it, and ask
any questions you like ?
Jan., 1923. Case. 13
In reply to this Miss Newton wrote to J\Ir. McClure as
follows :
1st July, 1922.
. . . The important point is hoxv much knowledge Mr. A. R. C.
had of your trouble and need of " help." I note that it is
the only communication purporting to come from your father
that he had received, and that he had not seen any of the
communications which you had received. Do you and your
wife often get communications purporting to come from your
father and, if so, are they similar to those in question now ? I
am wondering whether there can have been any telepathic rapport
in the case.
To this letter Mr. McClure replied thus :
m, 1 . J^'hj 3, 1922.
lhank you for yours of the 1st inst.
I note that you say, "the important point is how much
knowledge Mr. A. R. C. had of your trouble and need of •
help.'
"
I don't think he had any real knowledge of it at all. He
knew that we were not well off, but the trouble to which my
father refers is another matter entirely. It has to do with a
course of treatment I am undergoing for the relief of an obstinate
neurotic condition, and I don't think he even knew I was under
treatment, or how hopeless I at times became of a really satis-
factory cure. I really know him only slightly, through going
to his house now and again to attend ouija sittings. Both
my wife and myself are fairly cheerful individuals, and naturally
do not refer either to monetary difficulties or illness of any
kind among people whom we know only slightly. I do not
think that anything either in the manner or speech of either
of us would give Mr. [Crane] any idea of how great our need
of " help " of various kinds has often been. . . . What struck
me about the whole thing was, that on the evening in question,
I was feeling sjKciallij depressed, my wife was too tired to
attempt to write, and my impression of someone "wanting to
get through " was unusually vivid and insistent.
A. R. C. has never seen any communications from my father.
[I am taking it, argumenti causa, that the communicator is my
father, as it simpHfies writing.] They are all of a purely private
14 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, Jan., 1923.
nature, referring to our difficulties, or (on one occasion very
" evidentially ") to his own domestic affairs. He has occasionally
come to the board at A. R. C s but it has invariably been
" I cannot speak before these people. Get Ella [my wife] to
write." He has (1) the greatest contempt for, and objection
to, the board as a means of communication. It is apparently
very difficult to him to communicate in that way. Witness the
peculiar, crabbed style to which I referred in my previous letter,
and the fact that the short typed message I sent you, took over
an hour to come through. (2) The only third person before
whom he will " speak freely " is our friend Mr. P K ,
and of him too, he was at first extremely " shy." On Sept. 6,
1921, he came through the board for the first time when my
wife and P. K. were sitting. I was recording, and my notes
run, " [McClure] I am your father. Why have you him, K ?
Him I do not know. Will he mind you talking ?
" He is now
'
broke '
to P. K., but still objects to the board.
After A. R. C. brought us round, the message in question, he
and I tried to get more from my father through the board,
working quite alone, but it was slow and painfid work, and
nothing particularly evidential came.
Communications have come fairly freely to my wife and myself
from him. The general tenor of them is not unlike that of the
one you have, but they are of a rather more general character,
and none, without exception, has been so singularly apposite to
the exact conditions of the evening in question, as that. Coming,
as it did, through an outside source, with such singular appropriate-
ness even to our actual feelings at the time, it was certainly
arresting.
I have read the above to my wife, and she fully agrees with
me that A. R. C. could have no idea of our need of " help "
—
or rather, in this case, of my need. She will be passing through
town shortly, and could, I expect, call in and see you if you
would care for this.
As to the idea of telepathic rapport—I do not think I am in
sufficient sympathy with A. R. C.'s outlook to make this likely,
but of course it is singularly difficult, in any case, to rule this
out entirely.
Can I give you any other information ?
... H. [McCluee].
Jan., 1923. Case. 15
On October 19, 1922, Mrs. Salter met '
']\lfk' \\IcClare" at' tRe
'
Society's rooms and talked over the case , with. her. _
Mrs.
McClure had nothing to add to Mr. „ MilCiupe's st;?,teme.4l>'
\
of the case, but the points which she particularly emphasised
were :
(1) Mr. and Miss Crane had never before received any
communication purporting to come from her father-in-law,
whilst sitting by themselves. There had been a few attempts
at communication when she and Mr. McClure had been present,
but they had not been very successful.
(2) Mr. and Miss Crane had no normal knowledge of the
circumstances in Mr. McClure's hfe which made the message
so apposite.
(3) Mr. and Miss Crane could not possibly know that at the
time they received their message Mr. McClure had an impres-
sion that some one wished to communicate with him and
his wife, but that she being tired had not made any attempt
to receive a communication.
A proof of the earher part of this report was sent to Mr.
Crane, who, after reading it through, wrote the following
letter to Mrs. Salter :
—
13//i November, 1922.
Your letter of the 11th inst. enclosing a proof of the case
you propose to print in the S.P.E, Journal just received.
I have looked over the proof and find the message as printed
is quite accurate. I enclose the original notes in order that you
may have the account in full as received . . .
There are two inaccuracies in Mr. [M'Clure's] letter of the
24th June, 1922, neither of much importance. It was I, not
my sister, who recorded the message sentence by sentence. We
did not feel any particular " urge " to go to the ouija board.
As a matter of fact we had been trying it regularly, as we did
not get very satisfactory results together : only two or three
times had we received consecutive messages. We were not
thinking of the [M'Clures] at all, but rather anticipated a control
that purported to be a relative. At the point where " my
daughter " was written, I anticipated " daughter-in-law," almost
to the point of consciously pushing the carrier to the letters :
this we were unable to do. The message was spelled very
16 Journal of Society fur Psychical Research. Jan., 1923.
^slowly ' '(betwfeeii d'ne' and two hours were taken to get the
_
whole, ijjessage. thiough), and there was a very strong feeling of
'-aft- "outeide personality ' af work; that is to say, the feeling of
being '
controlled '
was the strongest I have ever felt : it was
]Dractically impossible to believe that the message was due to
either conscious or sub-conscious movements on our part, a
feeling that is sometimes very evident. In so far as the receiv-
ing of the message was very exhausting, it was an unj^leasant
exj)erience and we were very glad to stop. As a rule I have
been unable to detect any sensation of fatigue caused by these
experiments : the feeling in this case was that the '
control '
was
determined to get through a certain message, but at the time
we felt that nothing of any great importance had been said.
The '
control '
took no notice whatever when we asked questions
(not noted in my record), but went steadily on, as if we had
made no comments whatever. In my experience this is some-
what unusual, and made the feeling of its being an outside
personality much more convincing than usual.
I do not know if the above comments are of any use, but
with the exception of the two inaccuracies mentioned, I believe
the proof to be quite correct. A. E. [Crane].
CORRESPONDENCjj].
A Laboratory for Psychic Research.
13 Queen Square,
Leeds.
To the Editor of tlte Journal of the S.P.E.
Dear Madam,—I have recently opened in Leeds a Laboratory
for Psychic Research which is intended to be worked on scientific
lines. It is already equipped with apparatus for X-ray work,
including a 16" induction coil, Crookes's and other tubes ; Ultra-
violet Ray equipment, and facilities for carrying forward the work
begun by Dr. Kilner. The object is to demonstrate (if possible)
the existence of that atmosj^here or emanation said to surround
living matter, frequently called the Aura.
As the object is to investigate this matter without the use of
mediums, except in so far as that every human may be a medium,
the methods employed and the mechanism used are those of the
ordinary physicist and chemist when engaged in research work.
Jan., 1923. Correspondence. 17
My immediate object in writing is to gain through the medium
of the Journal any advice or assistance that members who may
be interested in this aspect of research may care to offer me ;
any such help will be gratefully received and acknowledged.
Faithfully yours,
Clifford S. Best.
II. Oisr " An Experimental Study of the Appreciation of time
BY SoMNAMBULES " (read before S.P.E. by Mr. S. E. Hooijer, M.A.).
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.E..
Madam,—It does not appear to me that Mr. Hooper's experi-
ments, extremely interesting though they be, have at all
solved the question as to whether somnambules possess any
intuitive sense of the passage of tinw, or whether they calculate
this by some mechanical means, such as by counting. Further,
I am of opinion that the long interval experiments described by
Mr. Hooper are not of a nature to lead to any definite conclusion.
For it does seem very probable that in these experiments the
subject did, either immediately the suggestion was given, or shortly
after, make a simple calculation by mental arithmetic, reducing
the thousands of minutes to hours and a fraction (in minutes)
of an hour, and then calculated the day, and the hour by the
clock, at which the suggestion should be acted upon. This is
an entirely reasonable method, and one which would undoubtedly
be adopted by any person in their normal condition, although
he might have to use paper and pencil to make the calculation.
It transpired during the discussion that followed the paper
that the subject either knew the time by the clock at which
the suggestion was given, or knew it approximately, and the
errors made seemed to have a definite ratio to the degree of
accuracy with which the time at which the suggestion was given
was known to the subject.
It also transpired that in most cases the somnambule had
access to a timepiece at the time at which the suggestion had
to be carried out, while on the occasions on v/hich she had
not such access she had verified the time shortly before.
Now whether in this latter case the subject estimated the
time remaining by counting, or by some other mechanical method,
or appreciated the time through an intuitive sense, there is nothing
in the experiments to show, and that is just the question to be solved.
18 Journal of Society for PsycJdcal Research. Jan., 1923.
In any case it would seem unnecessary to assume that a
somnambule counts day and night for say 5080 minutes, and for
purposes of investigation short time experiments would appear to
be better than long time ones and more convenient.
Now, we, in civilized countries, are accustomed to appreciate
time by the movement of the hands of a clock or by the ticking
of a clock, but the division of the cycle of day and night into
24 hours, of the hour into 60 minutes, and of the minute into
60 seconds is convenient but purely arbitrary, and is not even
absolutely correct astronomically.
Still, civUized people have become so accustomed to this division
of time that it is possible that they may estimate time consciously
or unconsciously by counting seconds, and indeed many photo-
graphers can count seconds up to 40 with an error of not more
than 1 or 1^ per cent. Whether they could continue for any
considerable length of time, say for 10 minutes, is doubtful ;
it would probably become too irksome, but perhaps their siib-
conscious would not find it too tiresome. It would be of interest
to ascertain whether a somnambule accustomed to count in seconds
is more accurate than others.
There exist, however, on the Earth many peoples who still
know nothing about the clock, or the subdivision of the day
into hours, minutes, and seconds. Obviously, to tell a somnambule
of this kind to perform an act in say 45 minutes would convey
nothing to his mind. If he were to perform the act correctly
(in a number of experiments) one would be led to suspect the
direct impulse of the hyjonotiser's mind on that of the subject
about the nioment the act should be carried out. Experiments
of this kind would be very interesting. People who do not use
or know of a clock, estimate the passage of time in various
other ways, such as by the relative position of the sun, or by
the time it takes to perform some familiar act, such as the
cooking of a pot of rice. It would be of extreme interest if
experiments of the same kind as those of Dr. Mitchell and Mr.
Hooper were carried out by qualified and competent men with
somnambules unacquainted with clock time.
As the ordinary estimates of time by such persons are necessarily
inaccurate compared with our appreciations of time, one would
not expect any great degree of accuracy in the carrying out
of a suggestion, but if it should be proved that they did in fact
Jan., 192;^. Correspondev ce. 19
carry out the suggestion given in their own terms of time, with
an accuracy transcending chance, care being taken of course that
they were exchided from the observation of the events by which
they normally estimate time, it would tend to establish as a
fact that an intuitive sense of time does exist, as it could hardly
be maintained in their case that they had been counting seconds.
There should be many medical men living amongst uncivilized
peoples who would, if approached, be sufficiently interested to take
the matter up and to carry out the necessary experiments.
C. B. Baddeley, Colonel.
REVIEWS.
{Psychical Research.) The GoUgher Circle ; May to August, 1921.
Experiences of E. E. Fournier D'Albe, D.Sc. Pp. 81.
London: John M. Watkins. 1922. 7s. 6d. net.
When Dr. Crawford died in July, 1920, it was naturally thought
to be desirable by those who had supported his work that further
researches should be undertaken with a view to confirming and
amplifying the results that he had already attained. For this
purpose Dr. Fournier D'Albe was chosen as one who had con-
siderable knowledge of and sympathy with mediumistic work,
while at the same time being a critical investigator and careful
observer. He took up his work in May and completed it in
August, 1921, the results of his inquiry being embodied in the
volume under review.
Before attempting to deal with the contents of this book, let
us "^cast our minds back and glance at the past history of the
Goligher Circle. Dr. Crawford first began work in 1914. His
investigations continued until 1920, when he died by his own
hand. Thus for varying intervals he worked with the circle for
about six years, and published the summaries of his results in the
volumes which have already been reviewed in these pages. His
method of work was peculiar, and it is as well to understand it.
Its origin is rooted in the theories built up by those who claim
to know the truth underlying psychical phenomena. The tragedy
of it is that nascent mediumship is immediately seized upon by
such persons, and in the ignorance of their conceit they at once
begin a course cf " development." Darkness or the dimmest
light ;
hymn singing ;
" guides and spirit friends " ; the evil
effects of a critical attitude ; the paramount necessity of avoiding
20 Joanud of Society for Psychical Reflexive}'-. Jan., 1923.
a .scienUfic investigation ; the good influence of vibrations," and
the bad influence of human eyesight—all those spiritualistic
axioms, which are handed down from generation to generation in
an unbroken succession, are dinned into the only too willing ears
of the new medium and circle. In such an atmosphere as this
Dr. Crawford found himself in 19M. Four main courses were
open to him: (1) To avoid the circle altogether; (2) To work
with them under their conditions and make the best of it ; (3) To
accept their conditions at first, and then to break down their
prejudices little by little ; (4) To insist from the start on test
conditions and on forming a committee to investigate the pheno-
mena. Of these four alternatives he chose the second. When
confronted with a similar though milder problem, Baron von
Schrenck-Notzing chose the third, and can we doubt who was the
wiser ? Having chosen. Dr. Crawford proceeded to work almost
single-handed and in semi-darkness with seven persons. He
introduced mechanical appliances, all of which had to be explained
to the " operators " before use. He began to take photographs,
and although the results staggered even sympathetic critics and
did not seem to agree with his own theories, he persevered.
Continuous co-operation with prominent psychical researchers was
refused : an offer by a committee of skilled conjurors to verify
the authenticity of the phenomena was likewise refused. Personal
requests from those who had specialized in fraudulent manipula-
tions were declined, and entrance often given to spiritualist
sympathisers and persons with no special qualifications.
"When 1920 came and Dr. Crawford passed away, the situation
was somewhat clarified. Opinions differed v/idely. The spirit-
ualists, of course, proclaimed the absolute truth and accuracy of
the results of Dr. Crawford's investigations, looking upon him as
one of their champions, although perhaps a trifle upset by the
fact that Dr. Crawford had decided that plasmic rods raised
tables and not the hands of the spirit friends which clair-
voyants had so vividly described when visiting the circle.
The ordinary physical scientist either did not read the books at
all or just derided them, whilst the serious psychical researchers,
including, of course, those who had accepted the survival of
personality, found themselves in a state of uncertainty and
suspense. Knowing that similar telekinetic phenomena do actually
occur when fraud is out of the question, the majority regarded
Jan., 1923. Reviews. 21
the conclusions of Dr. Crawford as possibly approximating to
accuracy in regard to the mechanics of telekinesis. They were
however totally unable to accept the phenomena on Dr. Craw-
ford's bare statements, and without even many of the simplest
details being provided for their enlightenment. On the few
occasions when critical witnesses were invited their reports ^ were
distinctly favourable, yet the conditions seemed so impossible that
the great majority of intelligent critics hesitated before finally
committing themselves. Thus when Dr. Crawford died and Dr.
Fournier took charge, it was hoped that at last evidence would
be forthcoming which would either confirm or deny the observa-
tions of the former investigator. It is true that many felt that
the old method was to be continued and would yield nothing of
value. They therefore welcomed the appearance of Dr. Fournier's
book in the hope that their fears might prove groundless. We
confess that we were with those that feared and whose fears have
not been allayed.
The volume before us gives an account of twenty sittings and
a discussion of the results obtained. It also includes some
extracts from unpublished notes by Dr. Crawford and a selection
from letters written by various sitters. Dr. Fournier's conclusion
is, in short, that the circle is an organized gang of frauds, highly
skilled and acting in concert. Dr. Crawford, he thinks, under
the influence of spiritualistic traditions, was completely deceived
throughout his six years' investigation, and in the course of his
book Dr. Fournier hints at the sort of methods used by the
family for bringing this about. The curious thing, however, about
Dr. Fournier's book is that he has given no real evidence what-
ever that his conclusion is correct. It seems to be founded
largely upon suspicious incidents and movements which might have
a simple explanation. It is true that the shadowgraphs of the
plasma cannot be distinguished from shadowgraphs of chiffon, but
then for all we know " plasma " may be exactly like chiffon. The
only way of discovering Avhether the plasma is or is not chiffon
is to prevent- real chiffon from being brought in, which Dr.
Fournier found to be impossible for the most excellent of reasons.
It is also true that he saw, or thought he saw, Kathleen Goligher's
foot raising the stool, but for all we know it might have been a
1 Such as those of Sir William Barrett and Mr. Whately Smith.
22 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1923.
" pseudopod," just as Home's "arm" might have been one when
Mr. Merrifield saw it. He does not say whether he could see
Miss Goligher's two feet, one raising the stool and the other on
the groimd. Presumably the light was too poor to see either
when on the ground, but would it not have been better to repeat
the experiment on another occasion, and in the meantime to have
invented some secret device for controlling the feet of the medium?
Apart from these self-evident objections the book is full of
omissions and inconsistencies, which imply that for some reason or
other it was hurriedly put together and therefore left incomplete.
For example, in the list of sitters A is omitted ; in the account
of Sitting 10 it is said that the sitters and table are seen dis-
tinctly (p. 28) without saying whether the medium is included as
a sitter. Presumably she is not, since on p. 30 Dr. Fournier says
that all the results of the sitting could have been produced by
the medium leaning out of her chair and supporting herself with
one foot. If, as he says, there was good red light, then it is
difficidt to account for the fact that he did not see the medium
performing these actions. Again on p. 34 a 7-lb. weight is
described as being raised several tunes. We are not told whether
the weight had a handle, an important point, since it might not
have been very difficidt to have raised a weight provided with
one, whilst not at all easy had the weight merely smooth sides
and top. In the first sitting the table was levitated eighteen
inches into the air, was turned over towards the medium, turned
over on to its top and dropped with its top on the floor. It
was then seized and turned back in the reverse direction. Dr.
Fournier says that the light was not sufficient to show anything
below the level of the table top, but he does not say whether
these conditions still held good when the table was upside down.
He tells us that " most " of the sitters' hands could be seen, but
he does not say if he could see the medium's hands, which surely
were the most important in the circle.
Similarly we fail to understand the experiment with the decanter
(pp. 18, 19) and Dr. Fournier's note on p. 22. There would
seem to be no need for substitution if a " receptacle " into which
to put the mercury or water had been used like the bell in the
old independent voice test.
Taking the above as specimens of how the book is constructed,
it will be seen how incomplete is Dr. Fournier's report. What
Jan., 1923. Reviews. 23
however is far more important is the fact that he did not
apparently witness any of the larger phenomena under good
conditions as described by Dr. Crawford, Sir William Barrett or
Mr. Whately Smith. This fact alone makes one ask why Dr.
Fournier did not continue his work even after he had decided
that he was dealing with a party of tricksters. It ought to have
been perfectly easy to devise experiments which would have
exposed comjaletely the true nature of the phenomena and which
could have been put into operation without the circle being in
the least aware of what was occurring. Thus ample proof could
have been given and the matter placed beyond any doubt. As
it is, the gravest doubt exists whether the circle is in reality the
gang of frauds that Dr. Fournier woiild have us believe. A
critical and detailed examination of his book is valueless. It is
as useless as any critical examination of Dr. Crawford's work in
the past. The facts are not given. In Materialisations-Phaeno-
mene and in the S.P.R. Naples Report on Palladino the facts are
given, and no serious adverse attack has yet been made upon
either. The Goligher Circle has yet to find an investigator to do
justice to it. If the medium and members are genuine they
must be prepared to give as well as to take. If conditions
excluding fraud and normal processes prevent the phenomena
from occurring, then it is almost waste of time to prosecute the
investigation further. We do not believe the above to be the
case, but rather the reverse. The history of investigations into
physical phenomena shows that it is not true. No serious in-
vestigator pays any heed to the stories of the marvels occurring
in the presence of Monck or Spriggs, Mrs. Roberts or Mrs.
Benedict. The conditions insisted upon by the spiritualists
effectually prevented any value being attached to their efforts,
although in the case of Mrs. Roberts some sort of semi-scientific
investigation was attempted. Similarly, spirit photography has
been going on under the direction of spiritualists since about 18.55
or 1857, when such pictures were said to be first produced in
America. Since their appearance scarcely a single series of con-
nected scientific experiments have ever been conducted, to the
misfortune of all concerned. In the present instance it is for
the CToligher Circle to take the next step. It has done much in
the past for what many people believe to be the good of science.
It is indeed deplorable that its efforts should have been of so
24 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1923.
little scientific value. Whether we may think it just or not, the
fact remains that Dr. Fournier's book will be generally taken as
a complete exposure of the circle and as a refutation of all Dr.
Crawford's findings. Such a conclusion is warranted neither by
the book itself nor by common sense. However unfortunate
Dr. Crawford's conditions may have been he obtained results for
which it is extremely difficult to account on any theory of fraud.
Are we really to suppose that this family of working people,
besides levitating tables and faking innumerable other phenomena,
performed these tricks night after night for four years without
any remuneration whatsoever ? It would certainly seem to be
doubtful, although not perhaps so doubtful to some as the theory
of the plasma. The truth about the Belfast phenomena still
remains to be discovered, and it is for the Goligher family to
decide whether it shall be arrived at or not. They have two
alternatives before them. They can either decline to have any-
thing to do with any investigators—in which case they will go
down to history, at least for a time, as dubious mediums with a
bias against them, or on the other hand they can pocket their
pride—or their fear—and demand the fullest and frankest in-
vestigation of their claims by a committee of sympathetic scientific
men. It is only in some such way that progress can be made.
B. J. Dingwall.
Raymond Revised. By Sir Oliver Lodge. Methuen. 6s. net.
This is a considerably abbreviated edition of the earlier book,
Raymond, and contains a new chapter in which Sir Oliver Lodge
discusses " points which have seemed specially open to hostUe
criticism." In particular, he replies to the many criticisms directed
against the account given at sittings of the conditions obtaining
" over there," on the ground that the point of view is too
materialistic and too much similarity is suggested with conditions
obtaining in our earthly life.
The various evidential incidents given in the earlier edition are
all included here, and in this shortened form the general tenor
of the book will be more easily grasped by those to whom the
subject with which it deals is new.
H. DeG. S.
No. CCCXCII.—Vol. XXI. February, 19-2S.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
NEW MEMBERS.
Adshead, N. R., Larchwood, Hammerfield, Kernel Hempstead, Herts.
Allgood, Guy H., Xunwick, Humshaugh, Northumberland.
Atcherley, J. R., Expropriation Board, Rabaul, N.W. Pacific Islands.
Balfour, Mrs. E. W. S., 65 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
Basu, N. K., Calcutta High Court, 12 Pataldanga Street, Calcutta,.
India.
Bird, Mrs. Francis William, East Walpole, Mass., U.S.A.
Brooke, Mrs. Hastings, 28 Collingham Place, London, S.W. 5.
Dingwall, Mrs. E. J., 73 Corringham Eoad, London, N.W. 11.
French, Major Alexander W., T.D., Medical Officer's House,
Princetown, Dartmoor.
Montgomerie, C. W., Woodleigh, Aldershot Road, Fleet, Hants.
McNeil, Dr. Mary L., Scottish Mission Hospital, Bhandara, Central
Provinces, India.
Searle, William C, 38 Bedford How, London, W.C. 1.
Stuart, Lady, 10 Cleveland Gardens, Hyde Park, London, ^^^ 2.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 197th Meeting of the Council was held in the House of
the Society, 31 Tavistock Scjuare, London, W.C, on Monday,
January 22nd, 1923, at 3 p.m. ; Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart..
in the chair. There were also present : The Rt. Hon. Gerald
W. Balfour, Sir William Barrett, Captain E. N. Bennett, Mr.
J. G. Piddington, Miss M. Radclyffe-Hall Mr. W. H. Salter,
Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mr. Sydney C."^ Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
and Dr. V. J. WooUey ; also Mr. E. J. Dingwall, Research
Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
26 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1923.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as
correct.
Thirteen new Members were elected. Their names and
addresses are given above.
M. Camille Flammarion was elected a Corresponding Member
of the Society.
Mr. E. J. Dingwall was re-appointed Research Officer for a
year.
The 198th Meeting of the Council was held in the House of the
Society, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C., on Wednesday,
January 31st, 1923, at 2.45 p.m. ; Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart.,
in the chair. There were also present : Captain E. N. Bennett,
the Hon. Everard Feilding, Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr. J. G.
Piddington, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mr. Sydney
C. Scott, and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick ; also Mr. E. J. Dingwall,
Kesearch Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as
correct.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication.—-The Rt. Hon.
Gerald W. Balfour, Sir William Barrett, Sir Oliver Lodge,
Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. W. H. Salter,
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mr. W. Whately Smith, and Dr. V. J
WooUey.
Library Committee.—The Hon. Everard Feilding, Dr. T. W.
Mitchell, Mrs. Salter and Dr. V. J. WooUey.
Research Committee.—Sir Wilham Barrett, Captain E. N.
Bennett, the Hon. Everard Feilding Mrs. W. H. Salter, and
Dr. V. J. WooUey.
House and Finance Committee.—Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mr. W.
H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, and Dr
V. J. WooUey.
The 199th Meeting of the Council was held in the House of
the Society 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C., on Wednesday,
January 31st, 1923, immediately after the Annual General
Meeting of the Society ; Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the
Feb., 1923. Meetings of the Council. 27
chair. There were also present : Mr. J. Gr. Piddington, Mr.
W. H. Salter, and Dr. V. J. WooUey.
M. CamiUe Flammarion was elected President of the Society
for the year 1923.
Mr. W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Treasurer ; Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick and Dr. V. J. WooUey were re-elected Hon.
Secretaries ; Mrs. W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Editor
;
and Messrs. Miall, Wilkins, Avery and Co. were re-elected
Auditors for the current year.
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were
elected for the year 1923.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS. >
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was
held in the House of the Society, 31 Tavistock Square, London,
W.C., on Wednesday, January 31st, 1923, at 3.30 p.m. ;
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the chair. The following
Members were present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mrs. Barclay,
Captain E. N. Bennett, Mr. F. B. Bond, Mss A. Cotterell,
]\'Ir. L. Curnow, Miss M. A. Curtois, Mr. E. J. Dingwall,
Mrs. E. J. Dingwall, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Mr. J. R. K.
Duff, the Hon. Everard Feilding, Mrs. Fernald, Mr. Hizgh B.
Fitch, Mrs. Frith, Mr. H. Gatlifi, Miss B. Gibbes, IVIr. R. C.
Grey, Lady Harris, Mrs. Hocklilie, Captain A. J. Hollick, Mr.
F. M. Jeboult, Mrs. Kingsley, Mrs. Leaning, Sir Oliver Lodge,
Mr. A. E. O'deU, Mr. A. S. Owen, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Dr.
As we go to Press, we note that the issue of Light of the 10th February-
contains a Report of the Annual Meetmg which is maccurate in several
particulars. After a very misleading summary of the speeches made against
Sir A. Conan Doyle's motion, the Report says, " If a deduction may be
drawn from the opinions expressed at the Meeting, it was clear that the
motion had the support of the great majority of the private members of
the Society. "
This deduction is wrong, for a large majority of those present
are known to have been opposed to the motion, and in addition over
eightj- Members who were unable to be present in person, including many
of our most distinguished Members, had sent proxies to be used, if necessary,
in opposing the motion.
We need hardly add that the Annual General Meeting is for Members
only, and that whoever sent the Report to Light committed a serious breach
of confidence.
A 2
28 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1923.
J. Kickman, Mrs. Sydney Eothschild, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs.
W. H. Salter, Mi,ss F. E. Scatcherd, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mr.
William C. Searle, Miss E. F. Seymour, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
Mr. W. S. Montgomery-Smith, Mrs. St. Clair Stobart, Mr.
F. C. Summerson, Rev. C. D. Thomas, Mr. Hubert Wales, Dr.
A. Wallace, Miss M. A. Wilkinson, Mrs. Willock, Lieut. -Colonel
L. P. Winby, Dr. V. J. WooUey, and Mr. G. E. Wright.
The Report of the Council for 1922 was read.
The Hon. Treasurer (Mr. W. H. Salter), in presenting the
Financial Statement for the year, said that he did not propose
to say more about the finances than had already been said
in the Report. He felt however that although many members
had been very generous in contributing to both the Research
and the Removal Fund the response had not been quite so
satisfactory as it should have been. He hoped that those
members who could afford to contribute but had not yet done
so would not mind his again calling their attention to the
Appeal.
The Chairman moved that the Rejjort and Financial State-
ment be adopted. The resolution was carried unanimously.
The Chairman announced that six of the retiring Members
of the Council offered themselves for re-election. No other
nominations having been received, the following were declared
to be duly elected Members of the Council : Sir William F.
Barrett, The Hon. Everard Feilding, Dr. L. P. Jacks, Professor
Gilbert Murray, Mr. J. G. Piddington, and Dr. F. C. S. Schiller.
The Chairman announced that notice had been received of
the following motion proposed by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle,
seconded by Mr. George E. Wright, and supported by Miss
F. R. Scatcherd :
That this meeting regrets the action of the responsible officers
of this Society in regard to the recent case of psychic photography,
as being in conflict with the principles of justice, and with the
procedure proper to a scientific body.
The Chairman then read a letter from Sir WiUiam Barrett
expressing regret that he was for reasons of health unable to
be present and giving his opinions on the controversy con-
cerning Mr. Price's experiment mth Mr. Hope.
A long discussion ensued in which the following speakers
Feb., 1923. Annual General Meeting. 29
took part : Sir A. Conan Doyle, Mr. G. E. Wright, Mr. W. H.
Salter, IVIi-. Harry Price, The Hon. Everard Feilding, Rev. C.
Drayton Thomas, Mr. Fitch, Mr. Curnow, Mrs. Stobart, Miss
Scatcherd, Sir Oliver Lodge, and Mr. A. W. Trethewy.
The Resolution was then withdrawn and the meeting ad-
journed at 6 p.m.
CONVERSAZIONE.
A Conversazione was held for Members and Associates and
friends at the House of the Society, 31 Tavistock Square,
W.C., on Wednesday, February 7th, 1923, from 4-6 p.m.
There was a large attendance.
Sir William Barrett aimounced the election of Monsieur
CamiUe Flammarion as President of the Society for the present
year, and gave some account of his work, which we hope to
report in the next Journal. He also spoke of cases which
had reached him and of some automatic drawings, which he
showed.
A paper by Mr. A. D. Graham, a member of the Society
Living in South Africa, entitled " The Sub-conscious Mind,"
was read by Mrs. W. H. Salter.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick read a report on a recent " Book-
Test," sent by Mr. J. F. C. Kimber, a member of the Society,
who was himself the percipient.
RESPONSE TO THE APPEAL. SECOND REPORT.
DONATIONS
Towards the Expenses oe Removal.
Dr. F. C. S. Schiller -------£820
Miss E. C. Simmonds ------- 500
Hubert Wales -------- 500
Mrs. Woodhouse -------- 110
Lieut.-Colonel G. I. Davys ------ 100
Miss A. H. Scott-Bell ------- 100
To BE Allocated between Removal and Research.
J. T. Hackett - - - - - - - - £25 0 0
A. R. Bonus -------- 500
A. W. Trethewy -------- 220
30 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1923.
Expenses op Research.
Hon. Everard Feilding - - - - - - £10 0 0
Count J. H. Herberstein - 0 10 6
The Three Years' Guarantee Research Fund.
Lieut.-Colonel G. I. Davys (1st Instalment) - - £10 0
Rev. W. S. Irving (2nd Instalment) - - - - 2 2 0
Mrs. H. Pennington ( „ „)---- 100
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL, 1922.
The most notable event in the administrative history of the
Society during the past year has been its removal from the
Rooms at 20 Hanover Square which it has occupied since
1902 to its present quarters at 31 Tavistock Square, W.C.
As already stated in the Journal, the move was rendered
necessary both by the fact that the lease of 20 Hanover
Square was due to end in March, 1923, and could not be
renewed except at a considerably increased rental, and also
because the constant noise in other parts of the building made
the rooms no longer suitable for the kind of work which the
Society has to carrj^ out. This defect was most noticeable
during the recent investigation into the phenomena of Eva C. ;
the entranced medium was extremely sensitive to sudden noises,
and on several occasions the inception of phenomena was
completely inhibited by this cause. The new rooms are very
quiet and will for this reason be better suited to a,ny experi-
mental work upon which the Society may wish to engage.
They are also more commodious than the rooms at Hanover
Square. There is an excellent Library and Reading Room
where members can be quite undisturbed, and there is also
plenty of storage room—an important consideration when we
remember the large number of documents of various kinds
which have to be carefully preserved. Although the move
has at the moment involved the Society in considerable
additional expense, the Coimcil are confident that it will in
the long run be a source of economy.
As was recorded in the Annual Report for 1921 in January
last, the Council decided that some addition to the regular
salaried staff of the Society was desirable if full advantage
Feb., 1923. Annual Beport of the Council. 31
was to be taken of any opportunities for research whicli might
present themselves ; it will be remembered that since the
resignation of Miss Alice Johnson in 1917 the Society had had
no salaried Research Officer. It was decided, therefore, to fiU
this post, and Mr. E. J. Dingwall was appointed, and entered
upon his duties in February immediately upon his return
from America, where he had been working with Dr. Walter
Prince.
At the end of May, 1922, the Research Officer visited Munich
at the invitation of Baron von Schrenck-Notzing in order to
be present at a few sittings with Willy S., a young Austrian
medium. Three seances were attended in the laboratory of
Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing, and, as reported at a meeting of the
Society on July 13th, 1922, many varied phenomena were
observed. The movements of objects without visible contact
formed the major part of the phenomena, but apparent partial
materialization of limbs was also observed. The control was
excellent, and the sitters mainly savants and relations or
personal friends of Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing. No normal
explanation of the phenomena appeared to be possible imder
the circumstances, and both the Research Officer and Mr.
Harry Price, who had accompanied him, were strongly inclined
to the opinion that the occurrences were of supernormal origin.
This view seems to be strengthened by the fact that the most
powerful phenomena occur within a gauze cage, the only
opening to which is away from the medium and the sitters.
In order to explain normally the phenomena observed it would
seem necessar}^ to assume coUusion on the part of the in-
vestigators, a supposition which can scarcely be seriously
entertained.
Since 1920 the Society had been receiving reports concerning
the alleged poltergeist phenomena which were occurring in a
lonely cottage in Argyllshire. The case had interested the
Glasgow Society for Psychical Research, and several members
had had sittings with the family, the results being considered
worthy of further study. Accordingly the two children most
concerned in the manifestations visited Glasgow and gave
sittings, but the phenomena did not seem good enough for the
Committee to issue a unanimous report. Later a member of
32 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1923.
the Glasgow Society had a number of further sittings and
gave a more favourable report. It was suggested that our
Research Officer might visit the family and give his report,
and a member of the Glasgow Society very kindly defrayed a
part of the traveUing expenses. At the end of September,
therefore, Mr. and Mrs. Dingwall visited the hamlet. A number
of sittings were attended and a great variety of phenomena
observed. There was, however, no reason to suppose that any
of the manifestations were supernormal, and when adequate
control conditions were imposed the phenomena ceased abso-
lutely. Although the case presented nothing in the way of
sound evidence for supernormal physical phenomena, it has
some psychological and historical interest in relation to similar
pseudo-poltergeist cases elsewhere. In connexion with the
study of fraud in incipient mediumship, too, the case may
prove of interest, and it is hoped to keep in touch with the
family for the next few years.
For some time past the Society has been anxious to enquire
into the phenomena of the well-known " psychic photographer,"
Mr. Hope, of Crewe. One or two members of Council have
been able personally to obtain occasional sittings during the
last year or so, but Mr. Hope has not appeared willing to
submit himself to anything in the nature of a systematic
enquiry. In February, 1922, Mr. Harry Price, a Member of
the Society, had a sitting with Mr. Hope, a full report of
which was printed in the May Journal, together with an
invitation to any persons who might be in possession of
good evidence for the genuineness of Mr. Hope's psychic powers
to submit their evidence for the Society's consideration. Of
the cases received in response to this invitation one, sent in
by Major Spencer, was printed in the July Journal. A
number of other cases were also submitted to the Society
bearing on the alleged mediumship of the Crewe Circle, and
also that of Mrs. Deane. The evidence consisted mainly of
short accounts by various sitters supplemented by specimens
of the photographs obtained. It was said that further infor-
mation could be obtained from Mr. Fred Barlow, the Hon.
Secretary of the Society for the Study of Supernormal Pictures.
A careful enquiry has been made into each of these cases
Fkb., 1923. Annual Report of the Council. 33
by the Research Officer and first-hand evidence obtained
whenever possible. A summary of the evidence has been
examined by the Research Committee, appointed by the Council,
and it is hoped to deal with it fully in a report on psychic
photography in general. Of the cases submitted two only
appear to approach the evidential standard necessary. The
value of one of these depends in great measure on the memory
of one of the witnesses, whilst in the other the case rests
on the question whether the mediums could have obtained
a photograph of the person whose " extra " is shown. The
other cases submitted to us have but little evidential value,
either from lack of any detailed accounts at the time of
the sitting or from insufficiency of knowledge on the part of
the sitters as to the kind of information required.
The only useful moral which it appears possible to draw
from these facts is that in the case of such extremely obscure
and disputed phenomena as those which are believed by some
to occur in the presence of Mr. Hope and Mrs. Deane, no
general scientific conclusions will ever be reached so long as the
enquiry is carried out under such uncertain and constantly
shifting conditions as have hitherto obtained. It is in the
hope of setting the enquify upon a systematic basis that the
Council is anxious to have the opportunity of investigating Mr.
Hope's and Mrs. Deane's powers. They are so far fortunate
that by the generosity of Mr. H. W. Pugh the sum of £100
is available for this investigation. The terms upon which
Mr. Pugh's ofler was made have been set out in the Journal
for July last, Vol. XX., p. 331-333, and also in Light, and
the Council take this opportunity of re-affirming that their
invitation to both niediums is still open.
A certain number of minor experiments have been carried
out at the Rooms during the past year. Amongst these we
may mention a few with Mrs. Travers Smith, some of whose
earlier experiences with the ouija board have been described
by Sir William Barrett and have also been published in her
own book.
We have already recorded in the Journal our thanks to
one of our Members, Mr. Harry Price, for his generosity in
lending to the Society for an indefinite period his extensive
34 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1933.
collection of books on magic and witchcraft. These books are
now installed in the Research Officer's room and form a valu-
able addition to the Library. A catalogue of them has now
been completed and comprises over two thousand cards.
Among recent additions to this library which may be of
interest to members are Pierre Masse's De I'imposture et trom-
perie des diables (Paris, 1579) ; a rare pamphlet by Gottlieb
Dammerung on the early " Spirit " photographs of Mumler
published in Vienna in 1863 ; Guillaume de Fontenay's work
on psychic photographs (Paris, 1912) and the study of the
same subject by Girod published a year later ; two editions of
the rare pamphlet by Oscar Simony on making knots in
endless bands published in Vienna in 1881 ; a locally printed
tract by Thomas Carr on the Davenports published in New-
castle in 1864 ; the volume of the Psychic Magazine containing
Miss Barklay's attack on Eva C. ;
copies of several early
German works on the table-turning controversy of the middle
of the nineteenth century, and a set of E. D. Hauber's Biblio-
theca, Acta et Scripta Magica (36 parts in 3 Vols., Lemgo,
1739-1741).
Our thanks are due to other members of the Society for
assistance of various kinds—for example, in the re-arranging
and re-cataloguing of the Society's Library consequent upon
the removal—and in particular to Mrs. Creasy, who has spent
a considerable amount of time in indexing the records of
Haunted Houses.
The Society's Library, as already said, has been more suitably
housed in the new rooms. For convenience the Edmund
Gurney Memorial Library is now combined with the General
Library, and the whole number of volumes now amounts to
just over 4,000. The library has been well used both by
Members and Associates reading at the rooms and by Members
borrowing books.
Permission has been granted to translate into French
Mr. G. W. Balfour's paper on " The Ear of Dionysius," and
two papers by Professor Wilham James, pubhshed in our
Proceedings. The Council welcome this evidence of the interest
taken abroad in the Society's publications.
Mr. Gardner Murphy, a member of our Society, has been
Feb., 1923. Annual Report of the Council. 35
appointed Research Fellow in Psychology at Harvard Univer-
sity iinder the Richard Hodgson Memorial Fund. (The foun-
dation of the Memorial was announced in the Journal,
November, 1912.)
An additional privilege has been granted to members of the
Society, the Secretary having been authorised " to issue to
members who apply for them tickets admitting husbands or
wives of such members to any Private Meeting of the Society,
other than a Business Meeting." Advantage has been taken of
this pri^^lege upon several occasions.
The President of the Society for the past year, Dr. T. W.
Mitchell, delivered his Presidential Address in May. Dr.
]\Iitchell is the first practising physician who has occupied our
Presidential chair, and his distinguished position amongst
medical psychologists in this country makes it specially advan-
tageous to the Society to be able to include him amongst our
Presidents.
During the year Sir Lawrence Jones and Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, both Council members of long standing, who have done
much to promote the interests of the Society, have been
elected Vice-Presidents.
The Council has lost a member and a former member by
death. Mr. H. Arthur Smith, a former President of the
Society, was a member of Council from 1883 to 1921, and as Hon.
Treasurer for 31 years rendered very valuable service in
estabUshing the finances of the Society upon a soimd basis.
The Rev. M. A. Bayfield, who joined the Society in 1890 and
became a member of Council in 1912, was a frequent contributor
to the Journal and Proceedings. Both Mr. Arthur Smith and
Mr. Ba}^eld were regular attendants at Council Meetings so
long as their health permitted, and the Society owes much to
their help and advice. Obituary notices have appeared in the
Journal.
Nine Members, sixteen Associates and one Corresponding Mem-
ber have died during the past year. xAmongst these we may
mention j\Irs. James, widow of Professor WiUiam James, Dr. Gower
(of Denver, Colorado) and j\Ir. E. Westlake, F.G.S. Dr. Gower,
who had been an Associate since 1904, contributed a consider-
able number of cases to the Society's records and in particular
36 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1923.
some interesting reports on physical phenomena said to occur
in a circle of his own friends. Readers of Proceedings will
remember a further report on these phenomena by Miss Alice
Johnson after her visit to Denver in 1908. Mr. Westlake
became a Member in 1887 and did a good deal of useful
work for the Society in its earlier days. In particular he
spent a considerable amount of time in investigations into the
phenomenon of dowsing, and several of his reports on this subject
are included in Sir William Barrett's two papers published
in our Proceedings.
The total number of resignations during the past year has
been 35 Members and 32 Associates ; 13 Members and 22
Associates who have not paid their subscriptions have been
removed from the list. One Member has become an Hon.
Associate and 10 Associates have become Members.
Seventy-four Members and one Corresponding Member have
been elected.
The total membership of the Society is now 1213.
The amount received during the past year by the sale of
the Society's pubUcations is as follows : By sale through the
Secretary to Members and Associates, £70 12s. 7d. ;
by sale in
America through the Society's Agents, the F. W. Faxon Co.,
£15 Os. 7d. ;
by sale to the public in this country through
Mr. Francis Edwards, £83 8s. 3d.
Financially, the Society still needs further support. For
the first time for many years it was found necessary at the
end of 1922 to obtain a small overdraft from the Bank, and
temporarily to apply to meeting current expenditure various
sums which strictly speaking cannot be reckoned as part of
the Society's ordinary income.
In one way and another the move to the Society's new
premises cost about £225, an amount which would have been
substantially greater had not Mr. Scott generously declined to
accept any remimeration for the legal work done by him in
this connection. In response to the Appeal issued by the
Council, the sum of £197 9s. Od. was received to the end of
the year, of which £69 13s. Od. was allocated by the donors
to the Removal Fund, £14 lis. Od. to Research, and the
application of the balance as between the two Funds was left
Feb., 1923. Annual Report of the Council. 37
to the discretion of the Council. It is hoped that further
contributions will be received, so as to place the Society in a
stronger financial position. In the meantime the Council
wishes to thank those Members and Associates who have
already given their generous assistance, either by donations or
by increasing their subscriptions.
Three Parts of the Proceedings were published during the
year. Part 84 in January, Part 85 in June, and Part 86 in
October.
Seven Meetings and a Conversazione were held during the year.
The dates and subjects of the papers read were as follows :
January 31st. Conversazione.
March 7th. " Were-Tigers among the People of the Assam
Hills," by Mr. J. P. Mills, ICS.
April 11th. " Three Interesting Cases of Supernormal
Perception," by Sir Wilham F. Barrett, F.R.S.
*May 10th. Address by the President, Dr. T. W. Mitchell
(Proc, Vol. XXXIIL, p. 1).
July 13th. " Physical PhenomcDa recently observed with the
Medium '
Willy S.' at Munich," by Mr. E. J. Dingwall.
October 17th. " An Experimental Study of the Appreciation
of Time by Somnambules," by Mr. Sydney E. Hooper,
M.A.
November 14th. " Forecasts in Scripts concerning the
War," by Mr. J. G. Piddington. Part 1.
December 12th. " Forecasts in Scripts concerning the War,"
by Mr. J. G. Piddington. Part II.
* A General Meeting.
y-t 00 oor>omou^'^'-iTtHOO(.o
1-1
occoooootooc^oooo o
Ci
iH iH rH rH 1-1 ,-1 .- i-H i-H ^ T—i T—1 T-H I—1 I-H
CD
o
o i-H 11-5
00 CI
COOOf'-'^Ou^OO'-f'-iC-JO'^''
O (M 00 O 0-1 C'l r-H CO C-1 1-1 I— i-l "-I
rf< i-l i-i <N
00 CM 1-1 (M CC CO OO O
iM CI in iH 1-1 in i-l (M o £2,460
8
£2,477
P-l "S
;PM
+j
y. a
C/1 O *
O o X ^
" £ >
tc
" S
>v
CO
0-1
0
800
M
C: id cOCD
0 -1
CD a> 0 CO
rH CO tDO CO
U<
a
"o
03 :^
* ..
to a>
O c3
P-itn
>>
M
C3
O
1-3
43 ^
•-4 t-i
s5
bo 03
a
G pj a
(V ^, ^
S H ai CO H <!
3 .
, ^ o M
sg.s
03 H '«3
Cj ,
O 03 aTJ c
=4 9 " 2 •§
la Co
o a
03
03
a
cn is
p3 C
'
CD dj . CU I
- - o
a
CO
c
-D
Til CO
S.S
DO ^ '-^
r-i o a
coo CO
— o ce
a opL,
cs
n
o
EH
a*
I
§ !
,
C3 CO
'.^
,
a cc
S-o £
Sao
O w
000 m -t CO coo to 1-1 0
1-H ^ CO CO ^ M Lfl 00 CO
1-1
r- 1- "-I tr. (M :d CO 0 CO I>
<N
1-J Oi "Tti
CI c-T
c+1
O O -H
GS ^
C.
O CO o I> o
i-* CO CO <^ o
OrH(M CO
Ol CI CI CI
O ^
rHCJ c
00 c
r- CO c-
ci X c:
iH
o CO m
t-^ 00 r-(
5 w
013
3 -
M ..
O .1-1 Q
w'S'^Satj^^
«fl .2 .5 03 n 3 o
^3o.Q ass's
03 M c5 >-l 03
2a
00 0
0
t^GO
<N
a o
3""
S'
S.S
W a
30
S o
Pr^ 03
W l-< ^
.-2 o a (
c a »H I
S C3HF
OP^03
, a 03
-i^c?5 a p<
cE-< o o
0. O M
p3^
S a 03
on-t: o
1^ a
03 X
03 40
03 O
a
.S o
MH
la
03"
s =
?
^ ,
CJT3
"a
tlT 03
a.3
a
aT3
w a
a .
3 c-i
OIM
O 03
O 03
a X!
03 t-,
> OJ ^
a a o S
S Ofe =0 CO
a
m
m
O
Q
o
a 9 Ci
"
o
S-" g 3^
t- ce - <u
u
o
JO
o
^ ;5 ^ to >
<3 ^
o:» lo
.-I
C>T
^ °^
* m
c5 ce
O M G
OJ r-- ^
S o
ooooo^oooooo
oooooooooooo
oxooooot-^ooooo
CO O 'O O iO O O O
'^r^ — ""f^
=(5 Cij crt crt
g
" ^" ^ -
0)
Q
2;
3
^ c3 o
5> S & «
^'3 '5 .
(D a;
Pi
s 3
5 x Cu 0) i» c o
!• 1> -.
a>
^ s
vr M ci -=
S H S 'X
O O O -T! -c
o o o S 4
o n -r O
<D O « '-S .Hoc
-*0^t>io0'-i'-i'-i
O O O S § —< CT OO
c> o o , io to lo
ft?
I
ft?
I
ft?
Ed
I
o o o
IM
i-i ri r-l
CD c; in 31
O T—t
i-* CO
(M
a
:3
C
CO
c4 M
*
ops
lO
x 5
O ^c3 O
S 2 2
1
g =e
o ^
5 S
CO
0)
a
^ c o
"J
1-1 o
Q
-3
a
c , , _
o m
C
cS
"3
- (U -
1
to <U
o o
rH
CI
-t- o
CO o CO
55 CO T—
(
o
40 Joiirncd of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1923.
CASE.
L. 1241.
The following incident, which occurred at a sitting with Mrs.
Leonard, has been sent to us by the Kev. W. S. Irving.
Other cases contributed by Mr. Irving have already appeared
in the Journal (see, e.g., Jour. S.P.R., Vol. XX., p. 122).
The sitting took place on April 27th, 1922 ; Mr. Irving
acted on this occasion as his own recorder.
Extract from the Sitting.
Feda. And what's the trouble with getting the water ? The
communicator says, " Is there some difficulty in getting
some water ?
" She heard you say, " Rur-rur-rur-rur-
rur-water !
"
W. S. I. Yes.
F. What a nuisance ! She could only hear you mumbling
about it. Rur-rur-rur-rur- like that. She hopes it's all
right again. She says, " It's very inconvenient. It
wants a "—what ? It wants a new middle part. It's
a part what you can't see. You see, it's not the part
you do this with (Feda imitates some one pumping).
It's the part o piece inside. (Feda draws in the
air.)
W. S. I. What ?
F. Looks like a little rod, as if something either worn out or
undone in him.
W. S. 1. Draw it.
(Feda draws on my writing pad with a pencil.)
/
Feb., 1923. Case. 41
F. That's what's wrong, there, the end of that part. And
she says she does look after things.
Note hy Mr. Irving.
During the winter 1920-1921 the pump in the scullery went
wrong. We get all our drinking water from it. I sent for the
plumbers, and told them there was probably a washer worn out,
or something simple the matter, but they said it was something
deeper, as they could find nothing wrong with the pump itself.
After they had spent nearly a week hunting for leaks in the
piping, and had taken up the flooring of two rooms, I stopped
them, as they seemed to be running up a bill with nothing to
show. From that time onwards, up till now, much pumping has
had to be done before any water could be obtained. I did not
send again for the plumbers, however, as I found that many of
my neighbours were having trouble to get water, as their wells
were running dry owing to the drought. I concluded that pro-
bably mine was in the same condition.
In view, however, of what was said at this sitting, I called in
a plumber from another firm. He did not come to start on the
work till Aug. 14, 1922. He told me that all that was wrong
was that the leather of the lower valve was worn away ; he put
the matter right in a few hours, and the pump now goes as well
as it used to. I know nothing myself about the mechanism of
pumps, nor that they had leather valves.
A. Upper valve. B. Lower valve. X. The place where the part
was that was worn out.
Mr. Irving also sent us a receipted bill from the plumber,
from which it appears that the repair to the pump was carried
out in August, 1922.
42 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1923.
NOTES ON RECENT PERIODICALS.
L'Anne.e Psychologique. 22nd year (1920-21). Edited by Henri
PiERON. Paris : Alcan. Pp. xii, 608.
This publication doubtless has its uses—else it would not now
receive State aid in order that it may continue to appear,—
but among them that of supplying a complete record of the
literature referring to Psychical Research can hardly be included.
It only abstracts four articles on this subject, three French (from
the Bulletin de VInstitnt general psychologique) and one German.
Two of these are concerned with experiments on dowsing, and
one (French) reports positive, the other (German) negative, results.
MM. Yourievitch and Courtier also report negatively on the
ability of a hypnotized subject to feel stimulations at a distance.
As, moreover, the four abstracts only occupy one and a half
pages, too much should not be expected from them.
F. G. S. S.
ADDITIONAL NOTE ON A PUBLISHED CASE.
We have recently obtained a small piece of additional evidence
in regard to a case which appeared originally in our Journal
(Vol. XIX., p. 76) and was afterwards published in Mrs. Sidg-
wick's recent report on Phantasms of the Living {Proc. S.P.R.
Vol. XXIII., p. 152). As the case is an exceptionally good
one, it seems worth while to print the additional evidence,
even after this long interval, because a normal explanation of
what occurred is thereby made even more unlikely than it
was before.
Mrs. Sidgwick's attention was first drawn to the point by
a letter from one of our Members, Dr. Sydney Alrutz, of
Upsala, who wrote as follows :
I am lecturing this term on hallucinations at the University
and have given Case L. 1226, p. 152, Part 86 [of Proceedings].
A quite remarkably good case. Would it not, however, be
invincible, if Mr. M'Connel, who is jjersonally acquainted with
them, would procure testimonials that they had not entered the
room at the time from the two officers who wore a naval cap ?
In consequence of receiving this letter from Dr. Alrutz Mrs.
Feb., 1923. Additional Note on a Published Case. 43
Sidgwick wrote to Mr. M'Connel and got from him the following
reply :
4-1-23
... In reply to your inquiry about my son's appearance—all
I could say to Mrs. Salter at the time she wrote to me, asking
if it might not have been another of the " white caps " who
came into the cabin, and which Lieut. Larkin saw, was what
appeared in the Journal of the S.P.R. I learned afterwards
—
that one of the " white caps " had gone to the Instructors'
camp at Redcar the week before David's death. The other was
on leave at the time of the accident so that there is no possi-
bility whatever that either of them came to Lieut. Larkin that
evening—Dec. 7th. I learned this from Larkin himself and
from other fellow officers of David—too late for the information
to be printed in the Journal which contained the account of the
appearance—and did not think it worth while to tell Mrs.
Salter after the Journal had been printed. . . .
D. R. M'Connel.
If our readers will refer to the original report of the case,
they will see that this statement by Mr. M'Connel appears to
put out of court the possibility that the figure seen by
Lieut. Larkin at the time of Lieut. M'Connel's death, and
identified by him as Lieut. M'Connel, might have been one of
the two other officers in the camp (the only two) who wore
the same uniform.
ERRATUM IN CASE L. 1240.
In the report of a case printed in the last issue of the Journal
there is an error on p. 12. In Mr. M'Clure's first letter to us
he has by mistake written " circa 9 p.m. on April 22." As
appears from an earlier passage in Mr. M'Clure's letter, and
from original notes in our possession, the date when the
message was received by means of the ouija board was April
21, not April 22, 1922.
-'44 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1923.
REVIEW.
Sfiritism and Common Sense. By C. M. de Heredia, S.J. New-
York : P. J. Kenedy & Sons (1922). Pp. xv. 220.
This book is an attempt to discuss psychical phenomena from
the point of view of one who, although admitting that " there
may be something in it," is inclined to think that trickery will
account for a great deal and that the rest had better be left
alone by all true Catholics. Father Heredia is not content to
discuss fraud in the abstract. He is a performer himself and
in his entertainments he is said to duplicate many of the tricks of
fraudulent mediums. On the whole we are inclined to think
that he overestimates the fraudulent aspect of the subject and
would liave done better by a serious consideration of some of
the best cases brought forward by psychical researchers. Thus
we cannot admit his explanation of Home's accordion test (p. 68),
neither do we consider it in the least probable that mediumistic
levitation, if it ever takes place at all, should be produced by
methods similar to those employed by himself for his own levita-
tion. We would also like to remind Father Heredia that neither
Mr. Clodd nor Mr. Joseph MacCabe deserves serious consideration,
and we are frankly surprised that he has followed the latter in
his statement that Dr. von Kemnitz's book is " an annihilating
criticism " of Materialisations-Phaenomene (p. 188).
Being a Catholic, Father Heredia is bound to exhort his co-
religionists to eschew the practices of spiritualism. " In baptism,"
he says, " Catholics promise to renounce the devil and all his
works." Since the presence of the devil is probable in some
of the phenomena, and since observers can never know whether
he is not present in others, the best plan is to avoid seances
altogether. The Church knows best and it is for Catholics to
obey (pp. 167, 162).
Generally the book marks a distinct advance on similar pro-
ductions. Father Heredia has some knowledge of his subject
and treats of it in an original manner. The photographs of
fraudulent phenomena are highly entertaining, and we would
like to recommend especially the " spirit
'"
photographs, produced
according to the author without touching the plates in any way.
E. J. D
No. CCCXCIII.—Vol. XXI. March, 1923.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
ELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT.
As has already been announced in the Journal for February,
the Council have elected Monsieur Camille Flammarion to be
President of the Society for the year 1923. We are indebted
to Sir William Barrett for the following account of Monsieur
Flammarion's work ;
part of this account he gave at the recent
Conversazione on February 7th, but some additions have been
made since.
As is now known to our members the Council have elected the
distinguished French astronomer, M. Camille Flammarion, to be
the President of our Society for the ensuing year. In accepting
this invitation, M. Flammarion writes that he is proud to be
asked to follow so many eminent men who have presided over a
Society which he honours so profoundly, and which has done so
much for the critical and scientific investigation of psychical
phenomena.
I have been asked to say a few words about our new President,
whose name is, of course, known to everyone present. In spite
of his great age, he will be 82 years old in a few weeks, his
intellectual activity is undiminished. Few, if any, scientific men
have written so many books, each characterised by great and
wide learning and that wonderful lucidity in which French savants
excel. His last treatise, now in course of pubUcation, is on
psychical research, and entitled La Morf et son Mystere, and is
divided into three volumes, viz. 1. " Avant la Mort "
; 2. " Autour
de la Mort " ; and 3. " Apres la Mort." The first two parts
have been translated, and already pubhshed in handsome volumes
by Fisher Unwin ; the last part (which M. Flammarion has kindly
sent me) is being translated, and will shortly be pubhshed both
46 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, mae., 1923.
in America and England. I have only read enough of this last
volume to see that it contains an immense mass of evidence on
behalf of survival after death. Much of this evidence is new to
me, and will doubtless be of considerable value ; but in such
voluminous records as M. Flammarion has collected in these
volumes it is obvious that all the cases cannot come up to a
very high standard of excellence, and some will doubtless need
revision or excision.^
But what amazes one in reading these and other works by our
new President is the prodigious labour they have involved, and
yet, M. Flammarion informs me he has no secretary and writes
every word with his own hand. On the fly-leaf of Apres la Mort
is given a list of some of the many psychical works M. Flam-
marion has published. His best-known book is L'Inconnu et les
problemes psychiques, in two volumes, the French edition of which
has reached a circulation of twenty-six thousand. Another work
of his, entitled Dieu dans la Nature, in two volumes, has had a
circulation of thirty-four thousand, and is, I beUeve, a brilliant
attack on Materialism. But although M. Flammarion has been
studying psychical phenomena for fifty years, his Ufe work has
been astronomy, and his papers and books on this subject have
had an immense circulation ;
e.g. his small volume entitled
Lumen has reached a circulation of 70,000, and his Reves Etoiles
no less than 142,000. Besides these he has published at least
twenty works on astronomy, most of which are intended to bring
the wonders of the heavens and the results of modern astro-
nomical research within the comprehension of the general public.
In addition he has published sixteen books on general science,
of which his UAtmosphere, a popular treatise on meteorology, is
the best known. Then he has written at least half-a-dozen books
on speculative science and philosophy, such as La pluralite des
motides habitues, La fin du monde, etc.
But all this monumental labour has been subsidiary to his work
at the Observatory of Juvissy, which he founded in 1883 and
still superintends. The resume of his astronomical observations
^ Since the meeting I have had the opportunity of a long interview with
M. Flammarion at his summer quarters in Monaco, and he kindly gave me
a copy of the Proceedings of the French Astronomical Society, devoted to the
homage paid him by distinguished French savants, and from the information
therein contained I have gleaned most of the facts subsequently mentioned.
Mar., 1923. Election of the President. 47
and papers fills two pages of the memorial to him in the Bulletin
de la Societe Astronomique de France, and to these labours must
be added the editing of a monthly astronomical review which
M. Flammarion founded in 1882. With such a wonderful record
of scientific work there is little wonder that last year the Council
of the French Astronomical Society held a public meeting to
celebrate the 80th anniversary of M. Flammarion's birth. At
this meeting the great amphitheatre of the Sorbonne, which holds
3000 persons, was found too small for the multitude who wished
to join in this magnificent celebration. A special number of the
Bulletin of the Society was published, entitled " Hommage a
Camille Flammarion," with a striking portrait of the veteran
astronomer. This meeting was presided over by the President of
the Astronomical Society, Prince Bonaparte, membra de Tlnstitut,
who read a delightful letter from the President of the Republic,
M. Poincare, regretting his inability to attend, and spoke (as Prince
Bonaparte remarked) " des paroles eloquentes et particulierement
elogieuses " of M. Flammarion, whom he called
"'
citoyen du ciel."
Discourses were delivered by M. Reibel, representing the French
Government, and by M. C. Ed. Guillaume (Director of the " Bureau
international des poids et mesures " and Nobel prizeman), who
addressed M. Flammarion as " mon venere maitre, mon cher et
illustre ami," he gave a resume of his friend's life work with a
fervid eulogium of Flammarion, and of the esteem in which he
is held. A valuable discourse was then given by that eminent
savant, M. Paul Painleve, also a member of the Institute, on recent
astronomical discoveries, which concluded as follows :
" Mon cher
et illustre ami, en celebrant votre ceuvre, je veux celebrer aussi
I'oeuvre de bienfaisance que vous accomplie—et pour notre pays et
pour toutes les autres nations—en creant, en fondant la Societe
Astronomique de France."
We hope to reproduce the portrait of M. Flammarion in our
Proceedings, and shall look forward to the address he will deliver,
though it is unlikely he will be able to be present, as he rarely
attends any meetings, and at his age we can hardly expect him to
greet us in person.
Since the foregoing was written the Continental papers announce
the discovery of a remarkable and sudden change of brilliancy
a2
48 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, mak., 1923.
of a star—made by a student of M. Flammarion, a young
English boy named W. M. Abbott, living at Athens. On tele-
graphing to Flammarion's observatory at Juvissy the observer
there confirmed the existence of this new variable star, which
seems unique, from its swift and sudden change from a faint star
in Beta Ceti to a star of the first magnitude.
W. F. Barrett.
RESPONSE TO THE APPEAL. THIRD REPORT.
DONATIONS.
To BE ALLOCATED BETWEEN REMOVAL AND RESEARCH.
Alan C. Harris - - - - £100 0 0
Miss A. B. Balfour - - - - 5 0 0
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour - - - 5 0 0
H. F. Saltmarsh - - - - 1 1 0
Expenses of Research.
Lady Dewar - - - - - £5 0 0
NOTE ON MR. J. G. PIDDINGTON'S RECENT PAPER.
{We have received from Sir Oliver Lodge the folloiving note upon
Mr. J. 6. Piddington's 2Mper entitled, " Forecasts in Scripts
concerning the War '"
{Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXXIII., pp. 439 ff).
This note embodies the comments made by Sir Oliver Lodge upon
the first part of the pajjer when it was read at a yneeting of
the Society on November 14, 1922. Ed.]
It will be seen, from what Mr. Piddington has told us, that
at the outbreak of war all three automatists were productive
of concordant scripts, agreeing in tone with the scripts that
had long preceded them, when as yet they had no inkling of
the fact that any war topic was being involved. No doubt
we are unable positively to assert that they had no such
inkling, but it certainly did not clearly come into their
conscious minds. And one of them has said that, in so far
as she thought about the meaning of her scripts, she thought
they might possibly refer to future domestic or financial
troubles of a private nature.
It is noticeable that the actual outbreak of war brought
Mar., 1923 Note On Mr. Piddington^s Recent Paper. 49
no new and pugnacious quality into the scripts. They con-
tinued to employ sentences sufficient to show that the previous
writings had been anticipatory of what was now fulfilled.
But they seem to me now to cease to lay stress upon the
fulfilled portion of the vaticinations and to proceed rather to
re-emphasise the other aspect, that is to say, the peaceful,
the Utopian ultimate outcome, the forgiveness of injuries, the
coming of the Kingdom, which all along had been promised,
however little the significance of the passages was recognised ;
and continued to repeat those portions which, in the outbreak
of war fever, might have seemed almost alien to the normal
temper of the automatists, had they understood the allusions.
It must be assumed I suppose that they did now begin to
understand them, but they had not the advantage which we
possess of collating each other's writings. They could not
realise their consisten'- and concurrent character, because for
the most part each was only cognisant of her own script
:
and it is only now, by putting the scripts together and
pondering over their cross correspondences and following out
in detail their literary allusions, that Mr. Piddington has clearly
perceived and expounded :
—first, the clear anticipation of a
coming world-war, and then an equally clear anticipation of a
fruitful and beneficent outcome in the fulness of time, a time
apparently not long to be delayed, though also apparently
likely to be preceded by further troubles and eruptions, suffi-
ciently perturbing, though not so violently destructive as the
war itself.
In so far as we can admit intention and intelligent design
in the production of these concordant scripts, I believe their
object to be our encouragement ; and they probably acquiesce
in the present publication of such parts of the material as can
be published, with the object of helping us to live through
the present and future perturbed era, to take our due share
in helping on the forces that make for good, and to realise,
amid untoward events when men's hearts are failing them for
fear, the guidance, the foresight, and the preparation for the
Coming of the Kingdom.
Oliver Lodge.
50 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mar., 1923.
CASES.
I.
L. 1242. A Book-Test.
The following report of a successful book-test has been
received from Mr. J. F. C. Kimber ; other cases reported by
Mr. Kimber have been printed in the Journal for January
and December, 1922. In, the present instance Mr. Kimber
was himself the percipient, as he was in an earlier case (see
Journal S.P.R., Vol. XX., p. 197). In so far as the incident
is to be explained by telepathy from the living, the agent
would seem to have been Mrs. Ellis, as she is called here, a
friend of Mr. Kimber's, who was one of the sitters in some of
the earlier cases reported by him ; one of the supposed com-
municators at the sittings is Mrs. Ellis' husband. Colonel Ellis
(see below). The book-test had a curious sequel, which
appeared to indicate precognition. Mr. Kimber's first report
was enclosed in a letter to Mrs. Sidgwick, which ran as
follows :
The Gate House, Bashing,
godalming.
Nov. ISth, 1922.
I think perhaps the enclosed will interest you, as there are one
or two interesting points about it. Are we to suppose for
instance that Mrs. [Ellis's] subliminal noticed the space in the
bookcase and guessed where the book came from ? Mrs. [Ellis]
has no conscious knowledge of this. I seem to have gone wrong
with the room description, and this was probably my imagination
at work ; it is so difficult to know what is coming from outside
and what one is thinking of oneself.
The bottle I saw very plainly, but Mrs. [Ellis] does not re-
member if there had been one there.
At our last home sitting we got a reference to Moth and Rust.
Without prompting came :
" Moth and Rust is Filmed and
WILL be here see." I asked before reading out if Bob [Colonel
Ellis, one of the communicators] had anything to do with the
message I got. " I think so." " Who did I get most of it
from ?
" " My Wife." " And partly from you ?
" " Yes."
Mrs. [Ellis] was not trying to transmit anything at the time, nor
was she reading the book.
Mar., 1923. Cases. 51
" Confusion " is a good description in one word of the extract,
don't you think ?
Twice in the last six months or so I have got very accurate
impressions of the rooms Mrs. [Ellis] has been occupying when
away from home, without her trying to transmit.
I have asked " Charles " or " Bob " for these, when I have
had an idea they were about.
Enclosed with this letter w^as Mr. Kimber's report, as
follows :
On Oct./25/22. Mrs. " Ellis " went to visit friends at H
near Sherborne, Dorset, for the first tirne.
I have never been there, and do not know these friends of
Mrs. Ellis.
On Oct./30/22. I wrote to Mrs. Ellis as follows :
" I got this last night, will you look it up ;
though there is
probably nothing in it, we may as well see.
A big room, dining-room I think, standing with my back
to the fireplace. Table in front, with chairs up to it.
Right opposite, two windows, and between them near the
floor, some books. On a shelf I think, yet I seem to see
a bottle, wine or something over in that direction.
Fourth book from the right, page 93, about half-ivay doivn
something giving the impression of " Confusion."
The table had a high backed chair at each end, and the
Fireplace was mostly Stone and Oak."
Mrs. " Ellis " returned home on Nov./l/22, and says that the
library at H answers the description as regards the fireplace.
There is a table in the middle of the room, up to which chair.s
were drawn for tea.
The window opposite the fireplace is one big one, and the.
bookcase evidently meant is to the left and not directly opposite.
On the 27th or 28th Oct. Mrs. " Ellis' " hostess brought her
a book to read in her bedroom. Mrs. " Ellis " was reading-
page 93 of this book late in the evening of the 29th.
Before leaving on Nov./l/22 Mrs. "Ellis" returned the book to
her hostess who asked her to put it back in the Library, saying,
" You will see the place in the bookcase it came from."
52 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mab., 1923.
On going to the bookcase Mrs. " Ellis " found the book had
come from the fourth space from the right on the bottom shelf.
Extract from book.
Moth and Rust. Page 93, about half-way down reads :
. . . lay pell mell one over the other. Among the books
crouched an agonised tangle of wires, all that was left of
Cuckoo's piano.
The pictures had leapt wildly from the walls to join in the
conflict, a few pieces of strewed gilding, etc. etc.
The above impression came to me in the early part of the
night at my home in Surrey.
J. F. C. KiMBER.
Subsequently, in reply to an enquiry from Mrs. Sidgwick,
a corroborative statement was received from Mrs. Ellis. This
statement is not dated, but was received by Mrs. Sidgwick
on November 30, 1922, and ran as follows :
On Oct. 25, 1922 I visited my friends at H in Dorsetshire
for the first time.
A day or two before the 29th my hostess gave me a book
entitled Moth and Rust. I took this to my bedroom, without
knowing which book-shelf in the house it had been taken from.
On the 29th, when in bed, I read up to page 93 on which
occurs the passage quoted above.
It was not until Nov. 1st, before taking my departure and after
having read J. K.'s letter, that I returned the book to my hostess,
who asked me to replace it on a particular shelf in the library,
saying that I should find the gap from which it had been taken.
On finding this gap, I discovered that it was the fourth place
from the Right on the bottom shelf.
The bookcase, a large one, contained books of all sorts and
descriptions. E. P. [Ellis].
It will be generally admitted that the word " confusion
"
used by Mr. Kimber excellently describes the subject matter
of the passage quoted from Moth and Rust, by Mary Chol-
mondeley, a passage which is found in the position indicated
" about half way down page 93." This book-test differs from
the majority of those obtained through Mrs. Leonard, in that
the information obtained about the contents of the book
appears to have been derived from the mind of a recent
Mar., 1923. Cases. 53
reader of the book, and at the sitting referred to in Mr.
Eamber's letter, which occurred on November 11, 1922, it was
distinctly claimed that Mrs. Ellis was the principal agent.
In the Leonard tests it is claimed that the information is
derived by the communicators clairvoyantly from the books
themselves, and if any living telepathic agents do in fact
exist, it has not been possible to trace them.
There is one veridical point in Mr. Eamber's impression
which was not derived from Mrs. Ellis' conscious mind, namely
the position of the book on the shelf. It is possible, as Mr.
Kimber himself suggests, that Mrs. Ellis unconsciously noticed
that the fourth book from the right in the bottom sheK of
the library book-case was missing, and inferred that this was
the book she had been given to read. If we admit the
claim made by the communicator at the sitting of November
11th that he had some share in the matter, we may suppose
that his contribution was the knowledge conveyed to Mr.
Kimber of the position of the book on the shelf.
We may now pass on to consider the sequel. It will be
noted that in Mr. lumber's letter quoted above he stated that
at the " last home sitting " a statement was made that
Moth and Rust would be filmed and the film shown in the
neighbourhood. Subsequently Mr. Kimber sent us the record
of the sitting, which we quote below ; but it is important to
note that the reference in Mr. Kimber's letter of November
13th was made before any corroboration of the prediction
had been obtained.
Extract from the sitting of November 11, 1922.
Sitters : Mrs. Ellis and Mrs. Kimber.
Recorder : Mr. Kimber.
[The words spelt out by the oiiija board are in capitals.]
Moth and Rust is Filmed and will come here see.
J. F. K. Had you anything to do with that message I got. Bob ?
1 THINK so.
J. F. K. Whom did I get it from ?
My Wife.
J. F. K. And partly from you ?
0 Yes.
[The message was then read out by the recorder.]
54 Journal of Society for Fsycliical Research. Mak., 1923.
On November 18, 1922, corroboration of the above statement
concerning the fihn of Moth and Rust was obtained, and the
first record was contained in a letter from Mrs. Kimber to
Mrs. Sidgwick, thus :
November I8th, 1922.
I am very excited about a fulfihuent of the Moth and Rust
test, and as my husband is away I really must write and tell you
about it. On Armistice night we had a sitting with Mrs. [Ellis]
and among other things this was spelt out :
" Moth and Rust is filmed and will come here—see."
In this morning's Surrey Advertiser, Moth and Rust, from the
book by Mary Cholmondeley and featuring Sybil Thorndike, is
to be shown at the Guildford Playhouse on Thursday, Friday and
Saturday ! Needless to say we are going to see it.
None of us had any idea of this, nor had we heard of the book,
until it was given to Mrs. [Ellis] to read. . . .
Gertrude L. Kimber.
On November 23, 1922, Mrs. Kimber wrote again to Mrs.
Sidgwick, thus :
Thank you for your letter. We are going to see Moth and
Rust this afternoon, but I thought I would let you know that
none of us have seen any announcement of its coming to Guild-
ford. The films are never advertised ^ until the previous Saturday
(as this one was). But the announcement is often thrown on
the screen two or even three weeks in advance. I do not know
whether this happened in the case of Moth and Rust, because it
so happens that none of us have been to the Guildford " Play-
house " for four or five weeks, the " cinema " is the only one
we have visited. . . . Gertrude L. Kimber.
II.
M. CI. 108. A Case of Clairvoyance l
We print below an account we have received from a member
of the Society of a curious experience he had which may be
^ That is, presumably never advertised in the Surrey Adcertiiser. Mr,
Kimber ascertained by enquiry at the " Playhouse," Guildford, that the
film was not advertised on the posters before November 17th. There was
no record as to when the announcement was first throwTi on the screen,
but he was told that this was " almost certainly not more than a fortnight
before it was shown."
Mae., 1923. Cases. 55
of special interest to our members at the present time in
view of Mr. S. E. Hooper's recent paper on " The Appreciation
of Time by Somnambules."
We print the account just as it was sent to us, except that,
by our correspondent's request we have given only his initials.
In the nature of the case it will be understood that no corro-
boration is possible, but we have no doubt whatever that to
the best of his knowledge the writer has given an accurate
account of what occurred.
July 19, 1922.
One evening in May, 1919, I had been reading the two cases
cited in Myers' Human Personality of people having seen
hallucinatory clock-faces which showed the correct time at the-
moment. Next morning, after a long hot climb on a Scotch
mountain, I had lain down in the heather and gone to sleep :
sometime later, perhaps an hour or an hour and a half, I awoke
into a very drowsy state, and, before I had opened my eyes or
moved in any way, the thought "... what's the time . . . ?
'^
came vaguely into my mind, linked with the feeling that though
close in spirit to my luncheon I was far removed from it physi-
cally. Following immediately came a perfectly clear visualisation
of the face of my own watch ; the hands being at " just short of
12 minutes to one."
So absolutely life-hke was it, indeed, that I had noted the time,,
exactly and at leisure, before I realised that my watch was still,
in my waistcoat pocket, that I had not yet opened my eyes, and
that I was in fact supposed to be still half-asleep. Then, as may
be readily imagined, I did wake to full consciousness, instantly,
exclaiming to myself, " Why, this is just like Myers last night !
"
;
and thereupon, as far as I can describe it, I found that the watch
had imperceptibly shifted from an actuality into an ordinary
memory,—it had lost its objective reality, however vivid the
picture that remained. Well, I sat up, rubbing my eyes while
I quickly checked the facts of the case, and then looked round
for the first time at the view—dazzled by the sunshine ; sure
enough, I was awake and not still dreaming, I had just seen my
watch, and now I could safely take it out and check the time
and make sure that this strange thing really had happened to me..
I was totally unaccustomed to such events. Out came my watch :
the minute-hand was just perceptibly past where it had been.
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mar., 1923.
Now, five theoretically possible explanations occur to be dealt
with,—no doubt there may be more in reality,—and as in these
cases it is probably the victim who sees most of the game,
although he may not understand so well as the trained observer
what it is that has happened to him, his impressions may at
least be of interest, and possibly of value, even if wrong ; so I
will deal with my own seriatim :
(i.) Somnambulism. \
(ii.)
" Complete telepathy." / N.B.—Probably unscientific
(iii.) " Partial telepathy." headings, but adopted
(v.) Clairvoyance. /
(i.) Somnambulism : the hypothesis that I had previously in some
such state taken out and examined my watch, lain down again,
and finally reawakened to commence the above experience.
I think anyone who has ever slept in deep heather under a
hot sun, to awake feeling rather cramped, stiff, and sticky, will
at once rule this out. It is not easy to rise out of such a bed
{though it makes a remarkably comfortable one, may I add ;
" on top " by day, " underneath " at night), and the operation
calls for some little muscular effort : my whole physical being
protested against any such idea,—especially since, as the hands of
the watch had scarcely moved, the whole of such an occurrence
would have had to have taken place in the interval of a few
seconds.
(ii.)
" Complete telepathy " .•
the hypothesis that some mind ivith which
I may have been in touch telepathically had, knowing inti-
mately the appearance of my watch and also the correct time,-
transmitted this visual image to me in response to a sub-
liminal request.
This may sound rather far-fetched, and there is also a further
objection inherent in it, which may not be apparent at first sight,
that makes it tremendously improbable. Any such message, in
order to meet the test to which it was put, would have had to
have included an exact allowance (we are dealing now with
•seconds) for whatever the error of my watch was at the time,
—
i.e. the difference between its reading and standard time or
whatever the time by which my hypothetical colleague was going.
Though many people may have known what they thought to be
for brevity.
Mar., 1923. Cases. 57
the correct time at that instant, not even I myself knew the
error of my watch. Again, I am sure that no one save myself
could have visualised the inner face of that half-hunter as I then
saw it,—a watch that I have only used during the past 10 years
when my wrist-watch has been out of action.
On the whole, then, it would seem that that theory may be
ruled out pretty safely ; unless one postulates clairvoyance in the
first place on the part of such a collaborator. Should anyone
possibly suggest that it might yet have been telepathy, but with
a discarnate mind, I imagine they might then write the case down
as one of clairvoyance ; no one would be in a position to disprove
their theory.
(iii.) " Partial telepathy " ; hypothesis as above, but with my own mind
supplying the visual image in response to a subliminal 7nessage
giving either numerical terms or guidance in ])lacing the hands.
As to the psychological probability, or possibility, of such a
translation of mental impressions from one set of terms to another
I am not competent to express an opinion ; but the theory is open
to the same radical objection as the previous one, namely, the diffi-
culty of the allowance for watch-error. It seems scarcely less im-
probable, and we will therefore beg permission to rule it out also.
(iv.) Subliminal time-sense : the hypothesis that there exists such a
sense, which can record its results by prompting a visual
hallucination of an actual or imaginary time-dial.
As to such a possible sense, it seems important to note that
its results could at best be only relative ; that is to say, referring
always to some previous observation of the time and bringing it
up to date by adding to it a record of the " interval since the
last observation " ; and further, the corollary that such a sense
(of interval) must have been acquired subconsciously during life.
For there is no such thing as Absolute Time : what we call the
time of day is an arbitrary thing, and also it is different for all
observers, or at all places, except those on exactly the same
meridian of longitude,—that is to say, either due north or due
south of each other. At the poles of the earth, for example,
there is no " Time of day." For conventional purposes we call
the time the same at any moment all over England, although
Margate and Land's End are nearly half an hour apart, and to
this inaccuracy we have now added " Summer Time " : add to
58 Journal uf Society for Psychical Research. Mah., 1923.
these inaccuracies those of individual watches, and we see that
no subliminal " Sense of the Actual Time," even were such a
thing possible, could hope in summer to bring off one of these
tests, which work to a matter of seconds ! Incidentally, such a
sense would have to slow up its speed of functioning very con-
siderably if the observer flew due west in an aeroplane, and
increase it similarly if flying east, and such retardation or accelera-
tion would have further to vary with the latitude in which he
flew. Assuming, however, a possible subliminal sense of Lapse of
Time,—of Time-intervals, acquired by a lifetime of subconscious
notation of our measurements or units of time, —it must be
admitted that this theory does meet the watch-error difficulty ;
but why should the freakish thing have gone to the added trouble,
at its first and only appearance, of building up a re^jroduction of
my watch, complete in every detail and with the hands set
exactly right, instead of just murmuring in an appropriately
drowsy fashion into my auditory centre, " Not quite twelve
minutes to one." Again, this is a matter for expert psychologists ;
but to the layman the latter method would seem at least the
more natural and calling for fewer steps in the dark,—or at any
rate in a rather obscure region.
(v.) Clairvoyance.
This heading at least calls for no amplification, and, as a
theory to explain the occurrence, it calls for but one " step in
the dark," and that of a not very startling or unheard-of nature ;
also only a very short one, into my waistcoat pocket ! Is it not
also an open question, possibly, as to whether the previous theory,
—the only other one that appears to remain at all in the running,
—would not in fact be tantamount to " clairvoyance," restated
in a series of cumbrous guesses as to the processes involved in
this particular instance ? For who as yet can say in what fashion
these things really take place ? C. H. B. G.
REVIEWS.
I.
Remembering and Forgetting. By T. H. Pear, Professor of Psy-
chology in the University of Manchester. Ijondon : Methuen,
1922. Pp. xii, 242.
Prof. Pear is one of those psychologists who ought to join
Mab., 1923. Reviews. 59
the S.P.R. He is so open-minded, so acute, so ingenious, and
so capable of seeing that questions generally have more than one
side, that a subject like Psychical Research seems to be just
made for the exercise of his talents. His present volume, which
is eminently readable, is not directly concerned with Psychical
Research, though it just mentions veridical dreams and the evidence
tor telepathy on p. 70 ; its main topics are the problems con-
nected with remembering and forgetting, with dreaming and its
psycho-analysis. Now these topics are distinctly relevant to
Psychical Research, and it is refreshing to come across an
academic psychologist who realizes how great and intricate are
the problems they involve. Probably, however. Prof. Pear"s book
is best taken as one more tribute paid by academic ps3'chology
to the stimulus it received from the War. For the war shook
psychology out of its dogmatic slumbers and idle, theoretic
dreamings of a perfectly technical and perfectly futile terminology,
and put it on its mettle. Or rather, the psychologists. For
they had to show that they were of use in the world, and even
of national utility, or go into the trenches. So, not unnaturally,
they preferred to devise mental tests and to analyse, and some-
times cure, the multitudinous cases of shell-shock." No wonder
they have returned from practice to theory with their theories
considerably expanded. I cannot do better than quote Prof.
Pear's own testimony to this effect (p. 176). " Many psychologists
have recently been among the tempests of the mind. From them
they, like Franklin's pupils, have learnt that the lightning displays
are but striking appearances of a force which exists, in a quieter
form, everywhere. Yet while some physicists remained to study
the rough weather, others went back to apply the new knowledge
to everyday life, And in this respect the parallel between physics
and psychology does not appear as yet to be suiBciently complete."
Nor, one may add, is that between psychical research and psy-
chology. If psychologists would pay more attention to the
abnormal and the residual phenomena that lurk in the dark
corners of the mind, they might get control of the forces that
actuate its normal workings ;
conversely, if psychical researchers
made more use of normal clues, they might find that their super-
normal happenings were in principle intelligible as exaggerations
of quite normal processes. And so, perhaps, both parties inight
make progress. F. C. S. Schiller.
60 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mar., 1923.
II.
Kri7ninal- Telepathic und Retroskopie. Telepathic und Hellsehen im
Dienste der Kriminalistik. By Dr. Ubald Tartaruga. Leip-
zig : Max Altmann, 1922. Pp. ii, 201.
Das Hellseh-Medium Megalis in Schweden. By Dr. Ubald Tartar-
uga. Leipzig : Talisverlag. Pp. 128.
Dr. Tartaruga is a lawyer, and has been (or is) an official of
the police (Regierungsrat) in Vienna. He is also a writer on
criminology and interested in " occultism," which is the German
equivalent of psychical research. It was in his latter capacity
that he came across Dr. Leopold Thoma, also a lawyer, with
similar interests and moreover, a skilful " muscle-reader," percipient,
and hypnotizer, who had been appointed official police expert in
telepathy, and had founded, in the beginning of 1921, an " Insti-
tute for Criminological Research," in Vienna. His researches were
conducted with the aid of a medium called " Megalis," alias
Praulein Karoline Steininger, the twenty year old daughter of a
Viennese butcher who had been killed in the War. About this
girl Dr. Tartaruga tells us that, as a little girl of ten, she had
had veridical dreams about the future and had foreseen e.g. the
death of her grandmother. In 1920 she had performed as a
" dream-dancer " on the variety stage and, after her mediumistic
talent had been discovered, as a fortune-teller. When Dr.
Thoma hypnotized her, she used to pass into deep hypnosis,
becoming anaesthetic and deaf to every voice but his. In
addition to this she used to be blindfolded. After this the
modus operandi was as follows :
Dr. Thoma was told the place and time of the case to be
investigated by the clairvoyant, whether a crime or an otherwise
interesting occurrence, and he then told " Megalis " to proceed
(clairvoyantly) to the locality and to say what she saw happening
there at a certain time in the past. If she did not know the
place, she had to be given directions to find it, until she said
she had arrived there. She then described what she saw from
the standpoint of a spectator, and her utterances were taken down
in shorthand in the presence of various officials of the police, who
could usually verify her statements. According to Dr. Tartaruga
she frequently, and indeed usually, described cirumstances of which
she could have no normal knowledge, and often such as were
Mah., I!t23. Reviews. 61
not known to anyone present, though they turned out to be
correct ; but as, even where her descriptions were sufficient to
identify the suspected parties, she could only see what they had
done in the places she was sent to, and could not say where
they were at the time, her evidence never actually enabled the
police to apprehend and convict a suspect. In spite of her
remarkable successes, however, Dr. Tartaruga after about two
months retired from the Institute for clairvoyant criminology,
because he disapproved of Dr. Thonia's advertizing and un-
scientific methods. It thereupon collapsed, and Dr. Tartaruga
lost sight of " Megalis " for some months. After this interval she
reappeared with a new hypnotizer, a Swedish gentleman, to whom
she was engaged, and whom she soon after married, and proposed to
Dr. Tartaruga that he should accompany them on a tour in Sweden.
The latter accepted, and gives a full account in his second
book of " Megalis' " performances in nineteen Swedish towns during
the four weeks of April 1922. The account is very full and clear
and abounds in very remarkable incidents, which seem to
establish the genuineness of " Megalis' " clairvoyance and leave
no very obvious ground for cavil.
It is also obvious that " Megalis'
"'
successes were all the more
remarkable for occurring in a strange country, and in places in
which she had never been, than in her native Vienna.
At the same time psychical researchers know from much painful
experience that every account has to be confirmed and every
detail verified before it is accepted, even in cases where the
homi fides of the narrator cannot be questioned. There is no
apparent reason for questioning that of Dr. Tartaruga, whose
qualifications as an observer seem excellent, and whose narrative
carries conviction ; but one would like to hear more from some
of the other witnesses of this highly sensational and useful
development of ])sychism. Fortunately, there should be no
difficulty about this ; for among those who are mentioned as
taking part in the experiments are the well-known members of
our Society, Dr. Sydney Alrutz and Dr. Backman. They could
easily supply the requisite corroboration of Dr. Tartaruga's narra-
tive. And clearly, unless marriage has completely destroyed
' Megalis' " powers, further experiments should be arranged with
her, even though Scotland Yard is probably much too conservative
and too jealous to welcome her collaboration with the amiable
alacrity shown by the Vienna Police. F. C. S. Schiller.
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mar., 1923.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
The Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research for
October contains translations of recent articles by Sir Oliver
Lodge and Prof. Charles Richet on the hypothesis of survival,
and also an account of mental phenomena in the case of an
American medium, " Mrs. Borden."
The Revue Metnpsychique (Sept.-Oct.) has an article by Prof. Richet
on recent newspaper reports with reference to the phenomena of the
Villa Carmen and the alleged confession of the coachman Areski,
and another article by the same writer on the hypothesis of
hyperaesthesia of touch in the case of the sealed letter reading
medium, Ossowiecki. M. Sudre has a note on the work of Dr.
W. J. Crawford, of Belfast, and a new series of wax moulds
produced by Franek Kluski are discussed and illustrated.
In the Archives Suisses de Neurologic et de Psychiatrie appeared,
in Eases. 1 and 2, an account of the work of Dr. Alrutz on hypno-
tized subjects, which has already been discussed in the Proceedings.
It is in two parts and is entitled " Tine nouvelle espece de rayon-
nement de I'organisme huraain."
The Occult Review for November has an article on the occult
lore of the cross roads by W. N. Neill, and a further account of
"Welsh fairy lore by Mary L. Lewes.
In the April-June issue of the Journal of Abnormal Psychology
and Social Psychology there is nothing of importance to the
psychical researcher. Mr. Peterson has a paper on imitation and
mental adjustment, whilst A. A. Roback discusses behaviourism
in the light of medicine.
The Proceedings of the American Society for Psychical Research
for 1921 is a bulky volume of 592 pages. Section one is devoted
to a consideration of the Chenoweth-Drew automatic scripts
;
section two comprises—first, an account by Dr. Prince of the highly
important psychometrical experiments with Senora Maria Reyes
de Z, and secondly, a Survey of American Slate-Writing Medium-
ship. Anyone who read Dr. Prince's searching analysis of the
Keeler-Lee-Bocock photographic case will be prepared for his
discussion of the evidence in favour of the mediumship of the
photograjiher's brother, tlie famous " Alphabetical Keeler " of
Washington, Mr. Pierre L. 0. A. Keeler. Pierre Keeler is un-
doubtedly the most important medium for independent slate
JiAE., 1923. Notes on Periodicals. 63
writing in the world. His work has been passed as genuine by
investigators in almost every branch of life—lawyers, business
men, doctors, etc. He appears willing to sit with anyone provided
that they are not acquainted with deceptive methods. Thus the
officials of the American Society are not allowed. Dr. Prince
publishes part of his correspondence with the medium ofEering to
give him full facilities for proving his gifts before publishing the
present report. The report deals with the Keeler scripts mainly
from their external aspect and their phraseology. Internal
evidence is then examined and a number of sittings compared.
As Mr. Keeler obtains messages from one's deceased relatives
written in their handwriting, it was necessary to examine this
carefully and to estimate the ability of sitters to recognize the
writing of their friends. The whole account of the evidence
joints to one conclusion, namely, that the handwriting is that of
Mr. Keeler, the phraseology is that of Mr. Keeler, the conditions
those necessary for normal processes on the part of Mr. Keeler.
The report closes with an account of a recent materialization
seance through Mr. Keeler's mediumship where the police were
"forced to stop the performance, a trap door being found in the
wall and the footsteps of the confederate leading away across the
•snow to the back fence. The medium was fined fifty dollars
and departed. Yet the mediumship of this person has been the
subject of at least two books, one written by the late President
of the '"
Canadian Society for Psychical Research," and the otl. er
by a well-known lawyer. Working in full light at the same table
as the sitter, he obtains what purport to be messages from the
dead, and in their own familiar witing as certified by their own
friends. Conducting the Message Department in the Progressive
Thinker, which is the chief spiritualistic paper in the United
States, he gives comfort to thousands and what is considered
certain proof of immortality.. Yet it cannot be said that there
is any valid evidence whatever that he possesses supernormal
power. For possibly forty years the Brothers Keeler have been
operating, the one with the camera, the other with the slates.
Since Dr. Prince's exposure of the photographer, Mr. L. K. Jones,
one time President of the William T. Stead Memorial Center, has
been sending out circulars for his paper promising to anyone who
sends in four subscriptions, pictures of loved ones in the spirit,"
taken by Mr. W. M. Keeler.
64 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mak., 1923.
Psychische Studien for January 1923 contains a summary of
Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing's work with physical mediums by
General Peter, an account of the Commission of the Berlin
Psychological Society for investigating mediumistic phenomena, and
a few remarks by Dr. Debo on the sideric pendulum.
The December and January issues of the Scientific American con-
tain details as to the proposed $5000 jjrize for psychic phenomena.
A committee, consisting of Prof. M'Dougall, Dr. Walter Prince, Mr.
Hereward Carrington and others, has been formed, the permanent
secretary being Mr. J. M. Bird of the journal offering the prize.
The Revue Metapsychique for November-December contains a note
of protest on the campaign of insults and lies which have been
directed against Dr. Geley. The same issue contains two articles
on the luminous phenomena obtained with the medium Brto, and
a translation of the report on Nielsen, which we summarised in
the Journal for June. M. S. Dermendji contributes a method for
duplicating normally some of the more difficult hand positions
in paraffin mould tests, and Prof. Gruber has a note on the
phenomena exhibited by Willy S.
E. J. D.
correspondencp:.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Elmstead,
Epsom Lane,
Tadworth.
Madam,—In Mrs. de Morgan's book of reminiscences, Threescore
Years and Ten, p. 70, she speaks of "a few sentences in Locke
'
On the Understanding,' in which the philosopher describes his
own experiences " of what we now term Hypnagogic Illusions.
I have been searching for this in Locke and cannot find such a
passage. In fact, in Bk. IV., cSap. ii.
§§ 4, 5, he contrasts
sensation and the memory of sensation in a way which would
suggest that he was unaware of any third possibility. I should
feel obliged to any member of the Society, versed in Locke, who
could help me to the reference, therefore.
Also, I should be glad to know where Richter refers to or
describes his hypnopompic experience, referred to in Sully's
Illusions, p. 143. F. B. Leaning.
No. CCCXCIV.—Vol. XXI. V . '-4, V;^"; ^
^f'
i-s;'- April, 1923
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i,
On FRIDAY, MAY wth, 1923, at 4.30 p.m.,
... .... . WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED _ . . ..
" Hindrances and Complications in Telepathic
Communication," .
•
_
.
BY
Mrs. henry SIDGWICK,
WILL BE READ BY
. Mrs. W. H. Salter.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admisstofi are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. ;
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, i923.
NEW MEMBERS.
Brooke, John R., 1 Mitre Court Buildings, Temple, London, E.C. 4.
Bruce, Rev. Frederic D., The Vicarage, Penryn, Cornwall.
Davies, Vincent, 9 Mervyn Road, West Ealing, London, W. 13.
Kirkham, T. A., 38 Bedford Row, London, W.C. L
Mactavish, Mrs., Moray Park, Inverness.
Myers, Miss Mary, 1 Cloisters, Temple, London, E.G. 4.
O'Neill, Edward E., 20 Croxted Road, W. Dulwich, London, S.E
Portal, Mrs. Spencer, Berc Hill, Whitchurch, Hants.
Talbot, Mrs., 26b Kildare Terrace, London, W. 2.
Tartaruga, Ubald, Gentzgasse 132, Vienna, XVIII., Austria.
Thurn and Taxis, Princess Mary of, Lautschin, Nymburk, Czecho-
slovakia.
Vincent, Miss Gertrude H. M. M., Carisbrooke Road, Leicester.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 200th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C, on Friday, April 13, 1923, at 3 p.m. ;
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the chair. There were also
present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William Barrett, Captain
E. N. Bennett, The Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. J. G. Pidding-
ton, Miss M. Radclyffe-Hall, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Dr. F. C. S.
Schiller, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, and Mrs. Hemy Sidgwick ; also
Mr. Dingwall, Research Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings were read and signed!
as correct.
The following were co-opted as Members of the Council
for the year 1923 : Sir George Beilby, Miss M. RadclyfEe-Hall,
Mr. W. Whately Smith, and Dr. Maurice Wright.
The Report of the Annual General Meeting was presented
and signed as correct.
Twelve new Members were elected. Their names and
addresses are given as above.
The Monthly Accounts for February and March, 1923, were
presented and taken as read.
April, 1923. An Early Psychical Research Society. 67
AN EAELY PSYCHICAL RESEAKCH SOCIETY.
By Sir W. F. Barrett.
It may be of interest to our members to read the accom-
panying document, giving the objects of a Psychical Research
Society established in Cambridge at least twenty-five years
before our S.P.R. was founded. My friend, the Archdeacon of
Dublin, kindly gave me the printed circular, which originally
came from the Hon. Arthur Gordon. This Cambridge Society
seems to have been foimded by the Rev. B. F. Westcott,
Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, who afterwards became
the eminent Bishop of Durham : he was appointed assistant
master at Harrow School about or a little before 1860 ; this
explains the address given on the circulars.
Mrs. Henjy Sidgwick has reminded me that this early Cam-
bridge S.P.R. is referred to in her memoir of Professor Sidg-
wick on p. 43, as foUows :
" He [Professor Sidgwick] before his degree joined the Ghost
Society which Archbishop Benson when at Cambridge had helped
to found (see Life of the latter, Vol. I., p. 98 ^). Dr. Westcott,
afterwards Bishop of Durham, while in residence at Cambridge,
had apparently acted as Secretary ; and in 1860, when he had
left for Harrow, we find him sending Sidgwick a story, " pro-
duced by the old '
ghostly '
circular," and adding " I trust I am
right in believing you are still engaged in the pursuit of this
question." This investigation of ghost stories was the beginning,
so far as Sidgwick was concerned, of " Psychical Research," in
which, as will be seen from the following pages, he was engaged
with brief intervals during the rest of his life."
Mrs. Sidgwick tells me she does not think the Cambridge
Ghost Society ever published anything nor preserved any
records, as it appears to have been loosely organized and had
no centre nor means of continuity.
1 " Among my father's [Archbishop Benson's] diversions at Cambridge
was the foundation of a '
Ghost ' Society, the forerunner of the Psychical
Society, for the investigation of the supernatural. Lightfoot, Westcott and
Hort were among the members."
68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1!}2:3.
Here is a reprint of the circular of the Cambridge " Ghostly
Guild " as some called it : ; .
The interest and importance of a serious and earnest inquiry
into the nature of the phenomena, which are vaguely called
" supernatural will scarcely be questioned. Many persons believe
that all such apparently mysterious occurrences are due either to
purely natural causes, or to delusions of the mind or senses, or
to wilful deception. But there are many others who believe
it possible that the beings of the unseen world may manifest them-
selves to us in extraordinary ways, and also are unable otherwise
to explain many facts, the evidence for which cannot be im-
peached. Both parties have obviously a common interest in
wishing cases of supposed " supernatural " agency to be thoroughly
sifted. If the belief of the latter class should be ultimately
confirmed, the limits which human knowledge respecting the spirit-
world has hitherto reached might be ascertained with some degree
of accuracy. But in any case, even if it should appear that
morbid or irregular workings of the mind or senses will satis-
factorily account for every such marvel, still some progress would
be made towards ascertaining the laws which regulate our being,
and thus adding to our scanty knowledge of an obscure but
important province of science. The main impediment to investi-
gations of this Icind is the difficulty of obtaining a sufficient
number of clear and well-attested cases. Many of the stories
current in tradition, or scattered up and down in books, may be
exactly true : others must be purely fictitious : others again,
probably the greater number, consist of a mixture of truth and
falsehood. But it is idle to examine the significance of an
alleged fact of this nature until the trustworthiness, and also
the extent, of the evidence for it are ascertained. Impressed
with this conviction, some members of the University of Cam-
bridge are anxious, if possible, to form an extensive collection of
authenticated cases of supposed " supernatural " agency. When
the inquiry is once commenced, it will evidently be needful to
seek for information beyond the limits of their own immediate
circle. From all those then who may be inclined to aid them
they request written communications, with full details of persons,
times, and places : but it will not be required that names should
be inserted without special permission, unless they have already
become public property : it is, however, indispensable that the
April, 1923. An Early Psychical Research Society. '69
person making any communication should be acquainted with the
names, and should pledge himself for the truth of the narrative
from his own knowledge or conviction.
The first object then will be the. accumulation of an available
body of facts ; the use to be made of them must be a subject
for future consideration : but, in any case, the mere collection
of trustworthy information will be of value. And it is manifest
that great help in the inquiry may be derived from accounts of
circumstances which have been at any time considered " super-
natural," and afterwards proved to be due to delusions of the
mind or senses, or to natural causes, (such, for instance, as the
operation of those strange and subtle forces which have been
discovered and imperfectly investigated in recent times) ;
and,
in fact, generally from any particulars which may throw light
indirectly, by analogy or otherwise, on the subjects with which
the present investigation is more expressly concerned. . -
'
The following temporary classification of the phenomena, about
which information is sought, may serve to show the extent and
character of the inquiry proposed.
I. Appearances of Angels. .
:•
/is^
(1) Good.
'
. : . ;
-
(2) Evil. - fc^
II. Spectral appearances of . . .
" .
' '
'
(1) The beholder himself {e.g. "Fetches" or "Doubles").
(2) Other men, recognized or not.
(i) Before their death {e.g. " Second sight ").
(a) To one jierson.
(6) To several persons. '-' '*
'
./
'
(ii) At the moment of their death.
(a) To one person.
(b) To several persons. .
1. In the same place.
2. In several places. .
, . i. Simultaneously. '
T ~
"
.
.
j-^ Successively.
(iii) After their death. In connexion with .
{a) Particular places, remarkable for
'
1. Good deeds. - .
-
- 2. Evil deeds. "
" '
'
70 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1923.
(6) Particular times {e.g. on the anniversary of
any event, or at fixed seasons).
(c) Particular events {e.g. before calamity or
death).
{d) Particular persons {e.g. haunted murderers).
III. " Shapes " falling under neither of the former classes.
(1) Recurrent. In connexion with
(i) Particular families {e.g. the " Banshee ").
(ii) Particular places {e.g. the " Mawth Dog ").
(2) Occasional.
(i) Visions signifying events, past, present, or future.
{a) By actual representation {e.g. " Second
sight ").
{h) By symbol.
(ii) Visions of a fantastical nature.
IV. Dreams remarkable for coincidences
(1) In their occurrence.
(i) To the same person several times.
(ii) In the same form to several persons.
(a) Simultaneously.
(6) Successively. .
'
(2) With facts
(i) Past. ,
(a) Previously unknown.
{h) Formerly known but forgotten.
(ii) Present but unknown.
(iii) Future.
V. Feelings. A definite consciousness of a fact
(1) Past—an impression that an event has happened.
(2) Present—sympathy with a person suffering or acting at a
distance.
(3) Future—Presentiment.
VI. Physical effects.
(1) Sounds,
(i) With the use of ordinary means {e.g. ringing of bells).
(ii) Without the use of any apparent means {e.g. voices).
(2) Impressions of touch {e.g. breathings on the person).
Every narrative of " supernatural " agency which may be com-
municated will be rendered far more instructive if accompanied
April, 1923. An Early Psychical Research Society. 71
by any particulars as to the observer's natural temperament
{e.g. sanguine, nervous, etc.), constitution {e.g. subject to fever,
somnambulism, etc.) and state at the time {e.g. excited in mmd
or body, etc.). B. F. Westcott.
FURTHER NOTES ON HYPNOPOMPIC ILLUSIONS.
In the Jourml for April, 1922 (Vol. XX, p. 256) we printed
an account of hypnopompic illusions sent to us by Mr. M.
Gheury de Bray,' F.R.A.S. We now print a further report
from Mr. de Bray and some accounts of similar experiences
sent to us by members of the Society after reading Mr. de
Bray's earher statement.
I. Further Report by Mr. de Bray.
The following is an account of three observations similar to
the one I described in the Journal of the Society for Psychical
Research for April, 1922, together with some remarks suggested
thereby.
A. The usual appearance took place in almost an exactly
similar form to the one described. The appearance was, how-
ever, less distinct, the details were hazy and smaller, as if seen
from a distance, in fact as seen from an aerial rope railway or
aircraft flying fairly low. (I have never been in either, nor had
either been particularly brought to my notice in the few days
preceding the observation.) An important variation, however, was
that the motion of the landscape was reversed, being from right
to left. To test whether the sub-conscious self responded to a
conscious mental stimulus, I - willed " to see a crashed aeroplane
in a field; and two or three seconds later, surely enough, was
the quite recognisable collapsed structure of a smashed aeroplane,
with a profusion of details, too many, however, to be noted,
white on the dark ground as if seen from above, my sub-
conscious self evidently interpreting the stimulus in a manner
consistent with the rest of the picture. The view then became
more blurred and vanished gradually.
B. A short semi-conscious period revealed the impression of
something passing before my eyes TOth such a great speed that
nothing was visible but horizontal hues, Hke a wall close by an
express train at full speed.
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apbil, 1923.
C. The scene, this time, was architecture—building after build-
ing jjassing into view. The view was uncomfortably crossed
slantingly from the left down to the right by a line which ap-
peared as a defect, crumphng, or crease in the view that was
unrolling itself before my eyes. The motion was erratic—some-
times oblique or, I beheve, even vertical—and suddenly I realised
that this slanting feature did not belong to the view. It was
a hue of separation (and therefore had probably no objective
e.xistence) between two views, both of an architectural nature,
the one on the right moving to the right, the one on the left
moving to the left. It was as if two rolls, oppositely wound,
were placed side by side and unrolled in a skew manner, so that,
although the pictures were unrolling horizontally right and left,
yet the line separating them (dark narrow gap between the two
rollers) was oblique. The effect was most peculiar.
.
;
REMARKS. .
'•'
'
My theory of these curious appearances is as follows : . .
It is known that just as the heart beats continuously from
birth to death, the mind works continuously, and ceaselessly
there is produced a succession of mental pictures. This is done
by a mental mechanism, the effect of which is similar to the
unrolling of an endless picture film. Three different states can
exist : — .
1. The unconscious. The picture film is reeled off, but we do
not know it when we are sound asleep. In this state our power
of interpreting or feeling is immensely greater than at any other
time.
2. The semi-conscious, in which we become aware of the reel-
ing off. If we are more unconscious than conscious, or if we
become suddenly conscious, we are in the position of the person
who remembers his dream. With the vividness of percep-
tion that we all know, the degree of which depends on the rapi-
dity of the transition between sleep and wakefulness, a quick
awakening allows our conscious self to retain for a moment the
power of acute perception of the unconscious state. If we awake
gradually, this power becomes bhnded by the gradual breaking
in of consciousness, and yet if we remain in the intermediate
state long enough, we see the hypnopompic picture, which I only^
April, 1923 Further Notes on Hypnopompic Illusions. 73
see when I am lying lazily in bed, before getting up at leisure,
on a Sunday or other day of rest. ' :
3. The conscious, subdivided into :
—
(a) Semi-control when the picture film continually interferes
with our thoughts, only partially guided by them.
(6) The full control when we become absolutely unconcerned
to the moving picture (which goes on all the while) and cause
our mind, as a perfectly obedient tool, either to call forth a
succession of correlated pictures as when one goes through the
sequence of the action of one's afternoon shopping to remember
where one has left one's umbrella or hand-bag behind ; or a
succession of correlated ideas, as when going through the chain
of a mathematical reasoning, or yet merely to remain open,
pregnant to the required stimulus, as when one goes over one's
memory, as one would investigate one by one a set of pigeon
holes, to remember a name " that is just on the tip of one's
tongue."
It is well known that in dreams, the pictures (or actions)
suggested by the sub-conscious self succeed one another with an
inconceivable rapidity. Observation B seems to throw a light
on this. The sub-conscious mind being intensely more active
may be able to follow the swift unrolling film, which to the
conscious mind presented but a blank, owing to the lightning
speed at which it was unreeled.
It is also held by many that the brain is in duplicate (so
that it is possible in the case of particular lesions of the brain,
to have one half only of it working). It seems as if this was
verified by observation C. In this particular partly sub-conscious
state, evidently, there were two processes going on, correlated to
a certain extent (both unrolling pictures were of the same nature),
but so independent as to allow of the unrolling to take place in
two opposite directions. It is rather interesting to note that the
separation was skew, that is, along an oblique line. Is this
always the case ? If it is, is it the same for different indivi-
duals, or is the direction of the dividing line different for dif-
ferent persons, owing to some dissymmetry peculiar to each
person ? These questions are not impossible of elucidation but,
seeing the rarity of favourable opportunities, may require a very
long time to be answered.
74 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1923.
Three of our members have sent us reports of experiences
akin to Mr. de Bray's. In the first two cases the pictures
seem to have been in rapid motion, as was the case with
Mr. de Bray. In the third case the pictures, sometimes of
very short duration, were apparently stationary.
I.
I think you may Uke to be told that, so far as I could judge
from his letter in the Journal, I have had much the same ex-
perience as Mr. Gheury de Bray—only mine were before going
to sleep instead of at waking time. The landscapes were often
very pleasant ones and I wished they would delay a little in-
stead of changing so quickly. ... I do a Uttle sketching some-
times, and sometimes spend the day on my bicycle enjoying
beautiful views, and it may be on these occasions I see the
moving pictures ... I fancy I saw them a few months ago.
Since I saw the Journal I have tried to see them when not too
tired, but they did not come at call. I have always been quite
awake when they came, but in a reposeful condition. I believe
they came more frequently when I was young.
I have never had any sort of visions or hallucinations.
A. E. Grignon.
II.
I have been much interested in reading Mr. M. Gheury de
Bray's report of the hypnopompic pictures . . .
For a good many years I have from time to time seen pic-
tures of landscapes apparently inside my head, before going to
sleep but not with my eyes shut. These landscapes, it seems,
are not, as it were, painted on my closed eyelids. They are
quite as plain and distinct as if I saw them actually, but are
perceived by something within. My experience is almost exactly
the same as that of Mr. de Bray. The scenes are, I am thank-
ful to say, invariably beautiful. They are never of any place
I have seen, and vary from gardens or quiet English scenery
to bits of wild African or other far off ^Jlaces. None seen ever
recurs again. If I try to fix them they change like a kaleido-
scope. They always come when I am overtired, or not very
well, or perhaps worried.
M. H. Mason.
April, 1923. Further Notes on Hypnopompic Illusions. 75
III.
... I have had them—experiences like Mr. de Bray's—on
going to sleep (hypnagogic) from my girlhood, as I recall by
outstanding incidents. My " visions " are of two .sorts and have
two methods.
1. These come on and go off with a snap as if the shutter
of a camera is flicked off and on. They are in minuscule,
highly coloured, as if seen through the finder (?) of an amateur's
camera. These may be faces or objects (a sickle with horn
handle) or small scenes (cats playing in the grass).
2. These are built tentatively up out of the moving light-
shapes inside the eyes, and disintegrate (not fade) in the same
way, so as to give the impression of decay—most unpleasing
when the face is human and known to me. Nearly always
these visions are of human faces (sometimes oddly inhuman).
Memory does not account for all, although some visions are
roughly speaking, memories or built upon memories ; but ima-
gination tinges them. For instance, a row of gloves hung out
to dry had six fingers apiece ; and a fox-terrier had goat's horns.
No memory is accountable for such sights.
This faculty (?) is capable of development. By attentiveness
and quiet expectancy, not by alertness or self-suggestion, the
vision can be brought on ; but not the subject of it. Within
quite a short time I have begun to see " live-wire spooks " which
are words, phrases of music, small objects made up as if a pen
full of fire were writing them.
My visions will not oblige by answering to command, as have
done those of your correspondent. It is peculiar that general
vague of darkness doesn't develop them, though personal dark-
nesses, made by screwing the eyes tight, or pressing them with
the hand, induce them in waking (fully waking) hours.
Ida Wild.
We print below a report sent to us by one of our members
of three vivid hallucinations experienced by himself, when
fully awake, under special recurring conditions of light. These
experiences do not, strictly speaking, fall under the same
heading as the experiences related above, but since they are
in the nature of optical hallucinations, and therefore some-
thing akin to them, it seems convenient to record them here.
76 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1923.
The name and address of the percipient are known to us,
but are not printed. . ...
The following is a record of three halhicinations occurring to
the same individual at intervals, far separated from each other
in time, but under very similar enviroDments as to atmosphere.
1. It was the percipient's custom at the age of 17 to rise before
sunrise in the autumn mornings and walk along the bank of a
river to shoot wild duck which fed there during the night, but
flew to safer haunts to spend the day. On one such occasion
there was thick white fog.
Whilst [the percipient was] walking, gun in hand, a man, to all
appearances, suddenly sprang to his feet 15 yards to the left,
the river being immediately on the right, ran round the third
of a circle in front and suddenly vanished on the half right
front, on the other side of the river. The circumstance of his
crossing the river without pause, splash, or swimming, immedi-
ately brought the percipient to his normal senses.
2. The percipient at the age of 36 was entering San Francisco
Harbour. There was a dense white fog illuminated by a bril-
liant sunshine above. The percipient, with a number of other
passengers, was standing at the break of the upper deck, watch-
ing ; and the Captain with two of his officers was on the Bridge,
almost immediately over the passengers' heads^ keeping a sharp
look-out. Suddenly the percipient saw a large steamer, on the
port bow, slowly steaming right across our course. He called
out " ship ahead " and pointed with his hand. The hallucina-
tion was broken by the harsh voice of the Captain saying, " Now
then ! it's no time to be skylarking there !
" The percipient
felt thoroughly ashamed of himself, detesting as he does prac-
tical jokes, but no explanation was given. The creation in this
case was most complete ;
rigging, boats slung in davits, dense
smoke drifting in the direction the phantom was going. The
distance covered by it was perhaps 100 yards.
3. The percipient was crossing Regent's Park at the age of
52. There was a dense white fog; 11 a.m. Suddenly a tall
viaduct of graceful arches, a quarter mile in length, came in
view. The consciousness that it was an hallucination was pre-
sent from the beginning, but did not dispel it. It remained a
full half minute, perhaps more. It faded quickly, but gradually.
April, 1923. Further Notes on Hypnopompic Illusions. 77
These or similar hallucinations have never been experienced
under any other conditions of solitude or darkness, indoors or
out ;
only in dayUght and mist. Under these conditions per-
cipient has to keep a close watch on himself as they tend to
rise all the time, and he dislikes them.
Nothing is ever seen in a crystal or in a coal mirror, ink,
etc. In sub-tropical forest, camped alone, where the darkness
is intense, nothing ever arose.
. NOTES ON PEKIODICALS.
Psychische Studien for February contains the report of a dis-
cussion by Prof. Dr. Hans Driesch, on the subject of occultism
as a new science. Just as chemistry succeeded alchemy and astro-
nomy astrology, so will a new science be born from the confused
mass of occult speculations. Prof. Driesch regards the phenomena
investigated by scientific workers as the proper subject matter
for a new and recognised science. Prof. Driesch pays tribute
to the work performed by the Society for Psychical Research,
and the paper closes with a brief note on the position of the
spiritualists. '
'
...
Psychische Studien for March contains translations from the
Revue Metapsychique of articles on the medium Erto, and also an
account by Dr. Hertel of recent literature criticizing the work
of workers in various fields of psychical research. H. H. Krit-
zinger has a paper on the Meaning of Yogha in the practical
life of the time, and Dr. Schwab contributes a note on the work
of a new medium, Frau Vollhart, who is a private lady, and in
whose presence various physical phenomena are said to occur.
The Occiilt Review for March contains a further contribution
by Dr. Sturm on the Christology of Steiner, in which an attempt
is made to elucidate his theories on the two Jesuses. Mr. Red-
grove has an article on mind in animals, whilst a paper is in-
cluded on the myths and legends of China by R. M. Black.
The Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research
for February contains a translation of the recent Sorbonne Re-
port on the medium, Eva C, four peculiarly characterized dreams
bv Dr. W. F. Prince, and a further account of dreams exhibiting
parallel features by some observers who have been long and
favourably known to the officials of the Society. .
78 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1923.
REVIEW.
Occultism and Modern Science. By T. Konstantin Oesterreich.
Translated from the second German edition. London : Methuen
and Co., Ltd., 192-3. Pp. 18L 6s. net.
This is a brief but cautious survey of the present position of
psychical research by the Professor of Philosophy at the Uni-
versity of Tubingen. It deals broadly with a few of the funda-
mental problems engaging scientific workers as seen through the
instrumentality of the most powerful mediums. The difficulties
of research are clearly apparent to Prof. Oesterreich. The prin-
cipal one is, as the author points out (p. 160) " the aversion
manifested in spiritistic circles to scientific research." This dis-
like is due mainly to the fear that closer investigation might
weaken the case for spiritism and so hinder the propaganda of
the spiritists. As Prof. Oesterreich remarks, the resulting atmos-
j)here of the seance room becomes rejjellent to the professional
scientist. " The paraj^sychologic problems," he says, " exercise a
peculiarly fascinating influence on all half-educated individuals
. . . who are drawn to them as moths to the light of arc-
lamps . . . They then develop a peculiar spiritual fanaticism
which makes all discussion with them as hopeless as it is un-
refreshing. They look down on science with ineffable disdain,
meet every critical objection with instinctive enmity, filled as
they are with the secret fear that they may find themselves to
have been mistaken." This mental predisposition. Prof. Oester-
reich continues, makes them the victims of astoundingly im-
pudent frauds, and he goes on to relate how in his own ex-
perience he has seen well-educated and intelligent persons being
taken in by the most transparent deceptions (pp. 11, 12). It
is for this reason that ])sychical research is unpopular with or-
thodox science, the author concludes, and he points out how
German scepticism reverting to materialism, has made the subject
in that country a forbidden chapter to all but the most en-
lightened scientists.
Commencing with Helene Smith, the author briefly reviews the
valuable work of Flournoy in unravelling the amazing cycles of
her mediumistic career. .
He then proceeds to deal with Mrs. Piper and touches on
the telepathic hypothesis as one possibly sufficient for an ex-
April, 1932. Review. 79
planation of her phenomena. Comparing Mrs. Piper's trance work
with that performed by a good psychometrist, he says that the
telepathic theory would involve the assumption that Mrs. Piper
was in unbroken subconscious telepathic nexus with almost every-
body, a supposition concerning which he does not enlarge.
From Mrs. Piper the author passes to a consideration of the
cross-correspondences, and then proceeds to deal with physical
phenomena. He accepts, apparently, some of the phenomena of
Palladino and, in our opinion, rightly dismisses the result of the
American sittings, laying stress on the S.P.R. Naples sittings,
and also those conducted by Prof. Botazzi.
Passing to Eva C, Prof. Oesterreich reviews briefly the S.P.R.
Report on this medium. He concludes, if we read him rightly,
that the report is favourable to the medium, and appears glad
to learn that certain of the supposed " normal " processes attri-
buted hypothetically to the medium by ourselves were not pub-
lished as our own beliefs, but merely as specimens of the lengths
to which sceptics would have to go if they will not accept the
supernormal. In Chapter VI. Prof. Oesterreich approaches the
problem of Steiner and his relation to Theosophy and Anthropo-
sophy. With other thoughtful men he is naturally staggered by
the claims of the Dornach philosopher, and rather innocently
sugo-ests that Dr. Steiner should submit himself to experiment.
Comparing the Theo-Anthroposophical methods of attaimng clair-
voyant cognition with Yogi practices the author laments the fact
that Indian occultism remains uninvestigated. "It is hard to
understand," he writes, " and regrettable in the extreme, that
the Society for Psychical Research ... has not yet made any
effort to do so." Dr. Hodgson tried to see some of the Indian
feats when in the East, but he was not impressed by them.
Prof. Oesterreich is, however, quite right in his surmise that a
rich harvest of facts remains to be gathered both in the East
and elsewhere. We have recently come across an account of a
seance for materiahzation in the South Sea Islands, but it is
probable that with the advance of Western modes of life all
these primitive magical ceremonies will tend to die out. As
Prof. Oesterreich says, there is no time to be lost, but we have
httle hopes of any expedition being sent out for obvious finan-
cial reasons. The result will be that all the material now exist-
ing will be permanently lost to science and we shall have lost
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1923:
for ever the opportunity of studying supernormal phenomena as
they occur among the more primitive races of mankind.
E. J. Dingwall.
. • ' ' "
^
. 'i.i P:X
-
CORRESPONDENCE. .
. .
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Dear Madam,—Referring to Mr. Hooper's paper on " The
Appreciation of Time by Somnambules," may I point out that
there is a singular faculty of the same kind in people while in
a normal condition of sleep. A small experience of mine lately
is a typical instance of it. I was suffering from gastric influenza,
and a doctor came to me in the evening. He said he would
send in a medicine to be taken every four hours, but he added,
If you are asleep of course it does not matter, as that is
better than anything." The medicine came and I took a dose
at exactly 7 p.m. It gave me reUef, and I fell asleep with a
strong intention and wish of going on with it. When I woke
the room was pitch dark ;
I had not the faintest idea of whether
I had been asleep five minutes or several hours, but as I was
awake I decided to find out the time. So I struck a light and
looked at the watch on my wrist. The hands were exactly at
II p.m., the hour when the next dose was due. The next
second the church clock close by chimed out the hour.
I am aware that such occurrences are pretty common, but
I don't think they have ever received the attention they merit.
Eor what part of us is it that thus keeps watch and ward,
neither slumbers nor sleep, and, as in my case, either keeps its
eye on the church clock outside or on the watch on my wrist
in a dark room ? The experience of your correspondent in the
last Journal who fell asleep in the heather, yet knew the time
precisely when he woke, although exhibiting further complications,
strikes me as very analogous to mine. But I cannot admit
telepathy from any living mind in my case. No one but myself
knew the time at which I took the medicine, so no one could
know the hour when it was due again.
If this mysterious part of us which does these things, and
which I believe has immensely extended powers and knowledge,
is not the part which survives death—what is it ?
Leila Boustead. .
No. CCCXCV.—Vol. XXI. ' May, 1923.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
THE EESEAECH FUND.
A Further Appeal.
In the last Annual Report the Council took the opportunity
of reminding Members and Associates that the two Funds
for which an appeal appeared in the Journal for October, 1922,
were still open. Generous contributions continue to be
received, but it is felt that the response to the Research Fund
in particular has not been at all adequate.
The Society is conducting negotiations with a view to a
series of sittings with Mr. Hope, of Crewe, and also with
various other mediums, and there is a good prospect of these
negotiations ending satisfactorily. As regards the sittings with
Mr. Hope, Mr. Pugh's generous offer has relieved the Council
of financial anxiety, but the provision of funds for the investi-
gation of other mediums is a matter on which the Coimcil
confidently looks for assistance to those Members and Associates
who have not already given or promised donations to the
Research Fund.
The question has also arisen as to the provision and equip-
ment of a room to be devoted specially to seances. It
cannot be doubted that a Research Society such as our own
ought to possess a room of this kind. In the old premises
at Hanover Square limitations of space prevented this. In
our new and larger quarters the limiting factor is one of
finance. Possibly some structural alteration or addition to
the house at Ta\'istock Square will be necessary, and in any
event the purchase of recording and other instruments, whose
utility in the investigation of physical phenomena has been
82 Joxirnal of Society for Psychical Research. Mat, 1923.
demonstrated, would appear essential. Before, however, the
Council can formulate any scheme for a special seance room,
they must know to what extent they can rely on the
generosity of Members and Associates.
Unless the Research Fund is very largely increased, the
Council may be compelled to abandon the idea of a special
seance room. This would very seriously circumscribe the
utility of the Society's work, and would put it in an inferior
position to other Societies formed for the same purpose abroad.
The Council feel that they cannot too strongly urge upon
Members and Associates the need for making a response to
the Appeal worthy of the traditions and standing of the Society
for Psychical Research.
THE PROPOSED INVESTIGATION OF THE
CREWE CIRCLE.
The inquiry by the Society into the mediumship of Mr. Hope
and Mrs. Buxton, which was facihtated by the generous offer
of Mr. H. W. Pugh (see Journal, July, 1922), has now been
arranged and will, it is hoped, take place during the course
of the present year. The representatives selected by the
mediums are Miss F. R. Scatcherd, Mr. H. W. Engholm and
Ml'. G. E. Wright. The conditions of the investigation closely
follow the proposals of Mr. Pugh, who has been kept fully
informed as to the progress of the arrangements. No interim
reports will be published and no statements as to the result of
the inquiry will be made by any of those concerned until the
Society issues its final report with permission to publish in
whole or in part elsewhere.
THOUGHTS ON TRANCE PHENOMENA.
By the Rev. W. S. Irving.
In venturing to put down a few thoughts on trance pheno-
mena, I do so simply in the hope of being able to draw from
other investigators of the trance form of mediumship, more
experienced than myself, their views on the special points in
question. That we should know to what extent there is
May, 1923. Thoughts on Trance Phenomena. 83
similarity in the experience of students of trance mediumship
is of importance, in order to obtain perhaps a little more
light both as to the source of the phenomena, and the reason
for the contradictions and misstatements that sometimes are
made. I should like to put forward the suggestions that, in
sittings with an entranced medium, (1) the bulk of the
material to be given is prepared beforehand by some intelligence
—possibly learnt by heart. (2) That the material is mainly
received telepathically by the controlled medium, through what
appears to the sitter to be the ordinary sources of sight,
hearing, smell, etc. ; so that everything happens as if the
control actually saw, heard, and smelt what is being trans-
mitted, and interprets accordingly. (3) That the process of
transmission requires continual concentration on the part of
the communicator, to such an extent that the communicator
is by no means always aware whether or not the control has
received the message correctly, or what is being taken down
by the sitter. That there is therefore here a two-fold pos-
sibility of error in transmission. Taking the above points in
order, the first I come to is the suggestion that the bulk of
the material is prepared beforehand by some intelligence or
other. Some theory of this sort would seem to be necessary
with regard to a good deal of the material received through
trance mediums, and especially with Mrs. Leonard's Book-tests.
There is, I think, a certain, though perhaps small, amount of
actual evidence pointing to the communicator coming to the
sitting ready primed with the material, and impatient to give
it out. This can sometimes be tested at sittings with Mrs.
Leonard, owing to the habit of Feda of carrying on a running
conversation with the communicator, as well as repeating to
the sitter what the commimicator wishes to say. At the com-
mencement of a sitting, and before the actual " appearance
of Feda, whispers can generally be heard, the purport of
which it is not easy to catch ; Feda, apparently, receiving
instructions as to the first few sentences that the communicator
wishes to give. On two occasions I have been able to
distinguish words that afterwards proved to be important
key-words in veridical material which followed, pointing, I
think, to the commimicator being already prepared with these
84 Journal of Society for Psychical ltef>earck. May, 1923.
tests. It would be interesting to know if others have had
the same experience. If this theory be correct, it should have
some significance with regard to the source from which the
communications are coming, for those parts, at least, of the
communications about to be received are not gradually extracted
from the sitter's subliminal consciousness, by the medium, as
the sitting progresses—as has been suggested. Indeed, in any
case it is not easy to see how the sitter can be the source
of a good deal of material given at sittings ;
for, not infre-
quently, material is given of which the sitter can never have
known ; and Book-tests are, at times, taken from places of
which the sitter has little or no knowledge. Clairvoyance on
the part of the entranced medium during the sitting might in
some cases seem to be a solution, but, at times, when the test
is solved, it is found to be appHcable to the communicator in
so special a way that this suggestion does not satisfy. If, as
I suggest, these tests and other veridical matter are prepared
beforehand by an intelligence independent of both medium and
sitter—to wit, the supposed communicator, everything follows
as we might expect.
(2) That the telepathic impression received by the medium
confers some form of actual vision of the object " seen is,
at times, I think, undoubted. It must, of course, be
hallucinatory, for the medium's eyes are closed, and there is
nothing visible to the sitter ; but that the object seen by the
medium is a picture of the object itself, rather than the sitter's
or communicator's ideas of the object, seems to be supported
by evidence. I have had several instances of this at my own
sittings. A thurible was being described as " shown " to
Feda. It was said to have " two bits sticking out at the
sides, not big things, two little things, half-way down there
are rings." Feda added :
" Can't you put your nails through
and feel grooves ?
" The supposed communicator would cer-
tainly know that the thurible is hung by three chains, not
two, as, of course, I knew myself. On examining the thurible
after the sitting, I found that when held up in front of anyone,
as a rule only two of the projecting bits and rings can be seen
at once. A similar case is described by me elsewhere, when
it was said that I had a snake in my room, " a wide
Mat, 1923. Thoughts on Trance Phenomena. 85
snake," "it gets fatter in the middle. "
The snakes, for there
are two, are on a vase, but as the vase stands on the
mantel-piece in my dining-room, with the head of one snake
on each side, the impression given by a picture of the vase
would probably be that there was but one snake. Here
again, the communicator, hke myself, would know that there
were more snakes than one. Feda seems to have actually
" seen a picture of the vase. I had an interesting illustra-
tion also, a short time ago, of the same thing with regard to
the sense of smell. Feda, having stated that she 'was being
shown a small tin box, " not like the slaves bring when they
come to hve "with you," said :
" She keeps on trying to make
me understand there should be a kind of smell attached to
it." Here Feda sniffed vigorously, and I enquired, " What
kind of smell ?
" I don't think it a very nice smell," said
Feda, " not hke lilies and roses. She can't make me smell
what it is. Not a nice one, a characteristic one, not a sweet
one, not a pretty scent." The box in question Avas a tobacco-
tin. There is no doubt about that, as ample description was
given. I should certainly myself describe tobacco as a pleasant
smell, and so would the communicator. Feda seems, in some
way, to have been able to catch a telepathic impression of the
scent itself.
(3) My third suggestion—that the process of transmis^^ion
requires continual concentration on the part of the communicator,
—is based upon the internal evidence of the sittings them-
selves. I am not sure how far this suggestion is supported
by experimental telepathy. I find that if I interrupt a com-
municator to ask a question, I run the risk of getting a wrong
answer. To ask Test-questions and to expect correct answers
at the same sitting is to invite failure : it would seem to be
safer to ask the questions, and then say :
" Please answer
these at my next sitting." The sceptic will say, " Oh ! Of
course that gives the medium time to learn the answers before
the next sitting takes place." The type of cj^uestions, how-
f, ever, of which I am thinking are not of this nature, they are
personal matters, known only to myself and the supposed
communicator, and no one could learn the answers by enquiry.
Correct answers are thus given, later, on occasion, generally
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. may, 1923.
spontaneously. If tlie material that is being given, and that
I have interrupted by a question, has been uninteresting, and
I have really been trying to change the subject, an evasive, or
impatient, reply is sometimes given, and there is a quick
return to the original topic. It is just what a public speaker
sometimes does, if his mind is concentrated on his work, and
he is rudely interrupted. This applies with greater force still
to " personal " controls, where the power to think seems almost
wanting at times, and little seems to be remembered that has
not been prepared beforehand. I have known the "personal"
control to say, when questioned, " I'll tuck it up in »iy brain,
or her brain, or whatever it is, and see if it comes up again " :
and, at another time, in answer to a question as to whether
a certain message given through another medium by the same
communicator was authentic :
" No, I can't remember that
message. I want you to be a little careful, because it may
be I can't remember in her. If I can remember after I'll try
and give it through Feda '
yes or no,' at the moment I have
no memory whatever." I may say, in passing, that material
given through one medium is sometimes alluded to through
another, and fresh detail added. One often gets the impres-
sion of effort at sittings. Feda striving to grasp what is being
transmitted to her, and giving the impression of equal effort
at the other end of the line. Sometimes what cannot be
caught in one way is caught in another. My communicator
was once trying to give the name of an obscure village, well
known to us in the past, which I will call Banswell. (It is
as near the real name as I can give.) Feda got as far as
" Bans," but could get no further, and after several attempts
to get the remainder of the word by " hearing," she took my
writing-pad, at my suggestion, and wrote " wel," remarking
" She missed one letter, I think." It is as though the com-
municator, having failed with the telephone, got through with
the telegraph. Veridical material often comes with a rush,
and is followed by what may possibly be " padding "—the
control carrying on the sitting while the communicator prepares
for a further effort. This is particularly noticeable with several
mediums other than Mrs. Leonard. I cannot find an instance
in my Notes, but I am under the impression that at times
May, 1923. Thoughts on Trance Phenomena. 87
Feda says, " Hold it a moment longer, I haven't quite got
it," when a picture is apparently being shown her. This also
points to concentration being required on the part of the com-
municator. Occasionally palpably incorrect material is given,
yet the communication goes steadily on : the communicator,
seemingly, being unaware of anything having gone wrong with
the message she is giving. I have known this happen with
a " Book-test," and it may explain why some of these have
never been found. A room was described by Feda, and it
was said to be in a certain person's house. The recorder,
who knew the house, saw at once that the description being
given did not fit the room. In this particular case the room
was eventually recognised by the description. It was in
another house—the details were clear, and the book and tests
were found. How did the mistake arise ? I would suggest
that occasionally, as in this case, the room is said, by Feda,
to belong to someone she is especially interested in at the
moment ;
sometimes, perhaps, to someone who has been men-
tioned, shortly before, in the sitting. The mistake, of course,
would be a genuine one on Feda's part. But, ivhy, in such a
case, does not the communicator transmitting the Test knoiv of
the error that has been made ? May it not be that the effort
of concentration is the impediment ?
CASES.
L. f243. I.
A Case of Apparent Communication through a Medium by
A Person living, but suffering from Senile Dementia.
We have received from Dr. F. C. S. Schiller the following
report of a case which has been brought to his notice. The
names of all those concerned are known to the Society. It
has been suggested to us by one of our Members that it would
be a convenient plan to print pseudonyms in italics, so that
the fact of their being pseudonyms would be at once apparent
to the reader. This plan has been adopted below.
Dr. Schiller's Report.
The materials of this case have kindly been put in my hands
88 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May, 1923.
by an old friend who has taken a life-long interest in Psychical
Eesearch, and for whose good faith I can most unreservedly
voucli. As, for reasons obvious to the reader, names cannot
be published, I will refer to her as Mrs. G. Tarrant. In
addition to Mrs. Tarrant, the persons concerned are Mrs. Piper,
with whoni Mrs. Tarrant had many very successful sittings
years ago, and with whom she still corresponds ; Mrs. F. B.
Robertson, an elder half-sister of Mrs. Tarrant ; her father, Mr.
A. Yovng, who died in 1899 ; and her near relative, Mr. B.
Westerham, who is still alive. Mr. Westerham\s conduct had
seriously estranged him from his family, and Mrs. Robertson
especially had resented it so much that she had never felt
able to forgive him. In 1919 Mrs. Robertson's husband died,
and as her daughter was married, she lived alone for a time.
In former years (sixteen to seventeen years ago) the Robertsons
had had sittings with Mrs. Piper, and had obtained messages
which they were convinced came from their deceased son.
Hence it was not surprising that Mrs. Robertson took to experi-
ments with a oni-ja board and to automatic writing. She
obtained messages which she considered to be veridical, and to
come from her step-father, Mr. A. Yoking, to whom she had
been devoted. They warned her against continuing her
experiments, especially when alone. Moreover, their physical
effects appeared to be disastrous. She " nearly went intO'
trance " and had " a very bad nervous breakdown." Her
doctor told her she " must give it all up." So she did, and
went to live with her daughter. In 1920 she came to visit
her sister, Mrs. Tarrant, and complained to her of hearing
" voices all the time " which said disagreeable things and worried
her. This led Mrs. Tarrant to fear she was becoming insane.
Her subsequent letters did not, however, confirm this fear.
Then for a time Mrs. Tarrant got no news. But on October
30, 1921, Mrs. Robertsons daughter wrote to her aunt, Mrs.
Tarrant, that her mother " had gone entirely insane " over
four weeks ago and had to be put in a sanatorium. Her
usual condition resembled a deep trance, and medical prognosis
gave no hope of recovery, as the condition was ascribed to
senile deca^' of the brain. In the light of this diagnosis it
becomes clear that the breakdown in 1920 was already due.
Mat, 1923. Cases. 89
to illness, and not to the experiments with automatic
writing.
Meanwhile, ]\Irs. Tarrant, who had an arrangement with
Mrs. Piper whereby any messages or automatic writings which
seemed to refer to her or her family were sent to her before
Mrs. Piper's records were sent to Sir Oliver Lodge, had
received some curious messages which had completely puzzled
Mrs. Piper. It should be noted that the date of the first
message agrees closely with that given by iVIrs. Robertson's
daughter as the date of her mother's seizm'e.
Messages received from Mrs. Piper.
(1) + + R.^ A lady speaks who says she sent G. [Mrs. Tarrant^
a message through one whom she loved, but who opposed her own
activities in this way.^
I do forgive B. [W.]^ I see his weaknesses now. I did not
U.D. [understand] so well before. Do not let this trouble you
more. I am happy, so very hajjpy, but must speak bUndly here
for the present. You will U.D.
All is well, would not change it or have it otherwise, for you
understand. I sign it this way [R] B.F.
Love, more later F. Sept. 27 [1921].*
(2) F.B. [R]. Tell G. I am well and happy. Did she receive
my message ? Have so much to say. Speak to me, G. I
have reached you many times, sometimes consciously to your
self, and sometimes imconsciously. I understand so much better
now.
(Mrs. PIPER. Will you give your name fully ?)
I prefer not. G. will understand why.
(3) To G. [T.] from A. [Y.] and Rector.^
We are having a care looking after her. She is happy, do
not doubt it, and when she comes we will meet her and show
^ These symbols rei^resent Mrs. Piper's " trance-controls," Imperator and
Rector.
reference to Mr. A. Young, who had forbidden his step-daughter to
practise automatic "nTiting.
' Jlrs. Robertson had ahvaj's refused to do so when Mrs. Tarrant asked her.
The other messages were undated.
' Received by Mrs. Tarrant on March 5, 1921.
90 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mat, 1923.
iier the way. She thinks she is here uow. Fear nothing, all is
well. J.^ says so, and he knows.
Love from your father and mother [A.] and C. [Y.]. Had
nothing to do with us or this. What people in your world wish
does not disturb us. We understand conditions well. . .
Happy, yes, I am, and shall be released from my perishing body
and go on and on with my own. Then I can forgive and forget.
Give love, love, to everybody.
(4)3 Tell G. [T.] Mr. [Y.] says there has been some confusion
in getting through clearly. The condition of the lady very near
and dear to him who is suffering greatly, is senile and the
wanderings due to a cancerous condition of the blood, from which
the gentleman says he himself passed over. In her wanderings
she says. " I forgive, I forgive and I'm trying to be happy "
;
though she is still in the body, her step-father over here gets her
real thoughts, and when she comes to us she will understand and
all will be clear. Her condition is the result of a blood condition
and age, it cannot possibly be attributed to any other cause.
We shall relieve and bring her here soon. Both father and
mother send their love. Tender watchfulness and care at all
times. Tell G. to be happy and get all the good she can out of
life. All the little ones will be cared for if you have faith.
When we see them in danger, we ourselves can interfere and
prevent all kinds of calamity. Have faith and find peace in
prayer.
To complete the statement of the case, the certificate, dated
19th Sept., 1922, of the hospital doctor attending Mrs.
Robertson should be given. Writing to her daughter he says :
" Our diagnosis on the case of Mrs. Robertson is Senile Dementia
due to Arterio-sclerosis. In our opinion it is due wholly to her
age, and the fact of her being inclined towards cancer plays a
very unimportant part in her condition. Her appetite is good.
She sleeps fairly well. Has few trances. Spends some time each
day in the open air. Seems to be contented."
^ Presumably Mrs. Robertson's deceased husband.
^ A portion of the message, very personal, and not relevant to the case,
is here omitted.
* Subsequently received and sent to me in a letter dated I4th March, 1921.
May, 1923. Cases. 91
It is evident that on the face of it this case presents several
very remarkable features. Not only do the very accurate
details of Mrs. Robertson's physical condition displayed in Mrs.
Piper's messages involve supernormal knowledge of a high
order, if (as Mrs. Tarrant is confident) there was no one who
could have informed her, as Mrs. Robertson's daughter and her
son-in-law were not aware of its nature and were not in com-
mimication with Mrs. Piper about her illness ; not only is
there a very exact coincidence between the date of the first
Piper messages and Mrs. Robertsons lapse from " sanity," but
the case has theoretic imphcations of a very important kind.
It would seem that our conscious personality, i.e. what is
traditionally called our " soul," is not so strictly tied down in
its manifestations to its " body," nor so completely and
adequately represented by its behaviour, as it is natural,
and hence scientifically " orthodox," to suppose. The bodily
machine may become disordered in ways which irresistibly
suggest that the " soul " is destroyed or deranged : but they
do not prove this, and all the time it may be leading a life
of its own in another "sphere,"" or on another "plane," though
it cannot express this fife through a body which is no longer
its possession in any effective sense. Now this is precisely
what, as a few philosophers, notably WilUam James, have long
suggested, should have been expected. For the facts about the
correlation of bodily and mental processes were always am-
biguous, and there was always an alternative to its materiahstic
interpretation. It was always a possibihty that bodily function-
ing did not produce the activities of mind but only conditioned
their manifestations, forming the vehicle or machine through
which they were transmitted. As a logical possibihty this sug-
gestion had great merits—it could not, e.g., conceivably be
disposed of by any of the facts to which materiahsm was wont
to appeal ; but it had to remain merely a theoretic possibihty
in default of positive evidence in favour of its interpretation.
Now we seem to have got the requisite evidence. For we
seem in this case to catch a glimpse not only of the actual
correctness of the " transmission " theory of mind, but also of
the real spiritual agencies which are operating behind and
through the veil of material mechanisms. At any rate, it
92 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May, 1923-
seems to me that by divulging this most interesting case Mrs..
Tarrant has (nor for tlie first time) put psychical researchers
under a deep obligation. F. C. S. Schiller.
L1244. II.
A Coincidental Dream.
On March 16, 1923, a lady whom we will here call Mrs.
Vincent wrote to Lady Betty Balfour the following account of
a dream of which she had previously spoken to her. Mrs.
Vincent's name and address are known to the Society, but
have been withheld at her request.
I woke with horror finishing a dream as I reached out to put
on light—or rather realising what the horror was. The light shone
full on the clock at foot of my bed—the hour was 2.10. I seemed
to remain in the midst of the horror though fully awake until it
gradually faded, and after some time I fell asleep—over a book
that I tried to read, but in the morning the recollection of the
horror was strong upon me. It returned at intervals during the
day with a feeling of misery and fear—at having dreamt of blood
so vividly. In the evening I played cards with the [grand]
children ; distress at the dream seemed to take more and more
hold of me. The evening paper came in about 8—an hour after
the children had gone to bed, and as P gave me the Evening
News I saw in large black letters : Taxi-cab Murder—at 2 a.m.,
etc., etc.—and the details.
My dream was that I was close to the back of a vibrating
taxi-cab—that there was a pool of blood on the road on left of
cab—that I was saying, " Can nothing be done ? " ; and a voice
said, The woman is dead. I saw the change in her face," and
I saw that she was being drawn from the cab, and carried away.
I do not know where I was, but I tJiinli I have the impression I
was in a taxi behind the vividly seen one. I was horrified. I did
not mention my dream to [anyone] that day. These are the
bare facts of my dream. [Signed] EvelyxX [Vincent].
Miss G L states that the dream was told to her on
the evening of February 6th after the Evening News had come
in, and that with that exception the above account accords
with her recollection.
TtfAY, 1923. Cases. 93
In answer to questions Mrs Vincent says that she has
vivid dreams occasionally, but not horrifying dreams. She
only remembers one other horrifying dream, which occurred
some years ago and was not apparently veridical. She does
not think that the idea of murder was in her dream of Feb-
ruary 6th—neither was there any suggestion of accident. She
was simply horrified and bewildered as she beheld what was
before her. She saw the woman drawn forth and carried
away, her head nearest to her. She was being carried at
about the height of the step, but whether she was drawn from
inside or from under the cab Mrs. Vincent cannot say. It
was the left side of the taxi. She was carried forward
towards the front of it away from the dreamer.
According to the evidence given at the inquest, as reported
in the Times of Feb. 9, 1923, the murder was committed on the
morning of Tuesday, February 6, at about 2 a.m. in the neigh-
bourhood of Leicester Square. The girl was taken to the hos-
pital, and died there shortly after. The dreamer was in Surrey.
We give below the extract from the Evening Neivs of Febru-
ary 6, 1923, to which Mrs. Vincent refers :
A girl of 20 is dead, a man of 2.5 is detained by the police,
in connection with a strange taxicab drama in the West-End
early to-day.
Percy Pomercy is the name of the man. His address is given
as Cotterell's-road, Hemel Hempstead, and he is said to be a
shop assistant.
The girl was AHce Cheshire, of Bourne-End, Boxmoor, and
Templewood-avenue, Hampstead.
When the taxicab was crossing Leicester-square the driver
heard the woman screaming. The Evening News learns.
Looking through the window, he is alleged to have seen a
struggle taking place.
He pulled the taxicab up, and when he got to the door the
man is alleged to have said : Cabby, it's all right. Drive me
to Vine-street police-station."'
The driver did so, and on arrival the man made a statement
to the pohce and was detained.
The pohce then took the girl to Charing Cross Hospital, where
she died within a few minutes.
94 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May, 1923.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Psychische Studien for April contains two articles by Dr. Tischner
and Baron von Schrenck-Notzing on the recently published
criticism of the physical phenomena by Dr. A. F. Meyer. Both
articles point out the incomplete and evasive character of Dr.
Meyer's attack on psychical researchers, and Baron von Schrenck
shows that his statements concerning the Villa Carmen episode are
not correct. Dr. F. Freudenberg has a paper in the same issue
on the possibility of employing the light emitted by certain
micro-organisms for the purpose of illuminating the seance room.
The Revue Metapsychique has an article by Dr. Geley on dermoid
cysts and the possible connection between them and the still
more obscure phenomena of supernormal physiology. These cysts
contain hair, sometimes five and a half feet long and occasionally
of a different kind from that of the carrier. Teeth are often
found and in some cases pseudo-mammae from which colostrum'
globules have been extracted. In supernormal physiology these
appearances are as a rule rapid and fleeting, whereas the growth
of the dermoid is subject to no such limitations. Dr. Osty has
a paper on the use of clairvoyant faculties in legal cases, and
Rene Sudre reviews the experiments by Kotik which the latter
published in a German translation in 1908. The experiments
recorded are not convincing and M. Sudre appears to admit that
Kotik lacked the necessary qualification for the work he under-
took. The sources of error seem not to have been fully recog-
nized and the subtle influences of suggestion hardly considered.
The Occult Revieiv for April contains a note by the Editor on
Theosophical Personalities, suggested no doubt by the immense
influence these have on the various theosophical " movements " ;.
an article by Mr. Waite on the Comte de Saint-Germain con-
sidered as an historical personality, and a paper on Buddhist
symbolism by the secretary of the International Buddhist Union.
E. J. D.
REVIEW.
Das Okliulte. By Graf H. Keysebling, Graf K. Hardenberg:
and Carl Happich. Darmstadt. 1923. Pp. 158.
This is mainly an account of the work of a new medium iw
Germany for mental phenomena. H. B., as he is called, com-
Mat, 1923. Review. 95
bines a great number of mediumistic faculties, including medical
diagnosis, psychometry and clairvoyance similar to that reported
with Ossowiecki and with Frl. von B. A general account of the
phenomena is given and at the end are included some detailed
notes illustrating how the experiments were conducted. The book
is worth reading and illustrates well the effects suggestive influ-
ences have on mental mediums of a particular type. Although
the standard of evidence demanded by the authors is probably
not so high as we would wish, it seems clear that the attentive
studv that they have given to the new medium may lead to
further results of an important nature. E. J. D.
COREESPONDENCE.
I. On " The Appreciation of Time by Somnambules."
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Dear Madam, Afril 17, [1923].
You may consider the following experience of interest in
connection with Mr. Hooper's recent paper.
In August 1910 I visted Glen Dol in Forfarshire with my hus-
band. After walking to the head of the Glen we lay down in the
heather to rest. I fell into a state of semi-consciousness, bordering
on sleep. I do not know how long this state continued, but
I should say about half an hour. While I was in this semi-
conscious state, with closed eyes, I had a clear vision of the
Glen as I had seen it on walking up, but instead of being"~a
desolate expanse of grass without a building of any sort in
sight, I saw in my vision a number of small cottages, and a
church tower with a clock face on it pointing to 3 o'clock. At
the same time I distinctly heard the clock chime the hour of 3.
I then regained full consciousness, and the impression of the
sound and vision was so vivid that I immediately asked my
husband the time ; and on looking at his watch he found it
exactly 3 p.m. After a few minutes I again fell into a similar
state, and saw the cottages and tower as before, and heard
the clock chime the quarter past. I again awoke, asked my
husband the time, and found it was 3.15.
Some days afterwards we were told that Glen Dol was formerly
the site of a village, and that according to a local legend, the
^)6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May, 1923.
chimes of the church clock are still heard in the Glen. We had,
however, never been told this previous to our visit to Glen Dol.
Olga C. Milne Watson.
[The following corroborative statement from Mr. Milne
Watson was enclosed :]
April 16, 1923.
I have read the enclosed statement of my wife's experience
in Glen Dol and I distinctly remember the occurrences related
by her. D. Milne Watson.
11. On the Clairvoyant Medium " Megalis."
To the Editor q/UJk-Jo^JiRNAL -Of the S.P.R.
Upsala, A-pril 25, 1923.
•
Madam,—In the March number of the Journal Dr. Schiller
in his review of Mr. Tartaruga's books on the medium " Megalis
"
put forward the idea that Dr. Backman or I might easily supply
the requisite corroboration of Mr. Tartaruga's narrative. I there-
fore beg to give you the following information.
Our Institute for Psychological Research decided in the beginning
of this year to invite Megalis to give a series of sittings in
Upsala. These sittings have now taken place before the Council
of the Institute.
The experiments have been conducted in such a manner that
in most of them nobody at all, or nobody present, knew
the " solution '"
; in others this was known, partly or wholly,
to some or all present. Not only experiments having the usual
character of Megalis' performances, i.e. assumed clairvoyance
in regard to the past, were made, but also experiments as to
her power to see " and describe objects and drawings placed
at the end of the same room [the subject is always blindfolded],
as well as objects or drawings concealed in small boxes, envelopes,
etc., placed in her immediate vicinity. Hyjmosis was induced and
experiments were conducted in relation to the medium sometimes
by the husband of the medium, sometimes by me. Everything
said by the medium or the hypnotizer was taken down in shorthand
by a lady doctor, German-born, incidentally residing in Upsala.
The minutes will shortly be examined and discussed and the
results published in some way or other.
Sydney Alrutz,
President of the Institute for Psychological Research.
No. CCCXCVL—Vol. XXI. _ .Jcxf, 192.5-
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE STEINWAY HALL,
WIGMORE STREET, LONDON, W. i,
On TUESDA Y, JUNE 26th, 1923, at 3 /.w.,
WHEN
A Presidential Address
BY
M. CAMILLE FLAMMARION
will be read (in English)
BY .
Sir WILLIAM BARRETT, F.R.S.
Members and Associates ivill be admitted on signing their names at the
door. Visitors will be admitted on production of an invitation
card signed by a Metnber or Associate. One ticket of invitation ts
issued with the Journal. Additional tickets, as far as acconvnodatioji
permits, can be obtainedfrom the Secretary.
I
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, i923.
NEW MEMBERS.
Backman, Louis, M.D., Lecturer in Physiology at the University of
Upsala, Sweden.
Brown, W. Forster, The Grove House. Cavershani, Reading.
Flint, Mrs., Baynards, Watford.
Gordon, Dr. Mary, c/o National Provincial and Union Bank of
England, 55 High Street, Kensington, London, W. 8. :
Goulden-Bach, Mrs., 2 Elsham Road, Kensington, London, W.
Hollins, Miss H. M. M., J.P., Melton Lodge, Great Malvern, Wor-
cestershire.
Leonard, Miss Margaret, Oakley House, Bromley Common, Kent.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 201st Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Friday, May 11th, 1923, at 3 p.m. ;
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the chair. There were also
present: Mr. W. W. Baggally, The Rt. Hon. Gerald W.
Balfour, Sir William Barrett, The Hon. Everard Feilding,
Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Miss M. Radclyffe-
Hall, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. Salter, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
and Dr. V. J. WooUey ; also Mr. E. J. Dingwall, Research
Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Seven new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
Dr. William Brown was co-opted as a Member of the Council
for the year 1923.
Mr. W. W. Baggally and Mr. W. H. Salter were appointed
Members of the Research Committee.
The Monthly Accounts for April, 1923, were presented and
taken as read.
PRIVATE MEETING.
The 76th Private Meeting for Members and Associates only
was held at 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1., on Friday,
May 11th, 1923, at 4.30 p.m. ; Sir Lawrence Jones in the
Chair.
June, 1923. Private Meeting. 99
Part of a paper by Mrs. Henry Sidgwick on " Hindrances
and Complications in Telepathic Communication " was read
by Mrs. W. H. Salter. The full paper will, it is hoped, be
published later in the Proceedings.
RESPONSE TO THE APPEAL. FOUETH REPORT.
DONATIONS.
Expenses of Removal.
H. Jeschke £10 0 0
Expenses of Research.
E. J. Thomson - . . . £10 0 0
INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS FOR PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH.
The second International Congress for Psychical Research is to
be held this year at Warsaw by the invitation of the Polish
National Committee ; it will take place during the last week
of August and the first week of September.
We give below some extracts from the rules in regard to
admission to the Congress and the reading of .papers, as laid
down by the Polish Committee :
(1) Only such persons as have received invitations from the
National Committee of their own country will be regarded as
Members of the Congress. The various National Committees are
therefore requested to send to the Secretary at Warsaw a list of
those persons who have accepted their invitation.
This list must be received at Warsaw not later than July 15th,
1923. Invitations will be strictly personal and non-transferable.
Only Members of the Congress will have the right to read
papers or take part in discussions.
Papers may be read in French, German, or English.
(2) Papers may be read at the Congress only upon condition
that they have been previously submitted to the National Com-
mittee of the country concerned, approved by that Committee,
and handed on to the Secretary at Warsaw not later than July
15th, 1923.
a2
100 Journal of Society for Psychical Kei^earch. June, 1923.
The Hon. Secretary of the Enghsh National Committee is
Mrs. W. H. Salter and further particulars may be obtained
either from Mrs. Salter, or from the Secretary, S.P.R., 31
Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
In view of the above regulations the names of persons
wishing to attend the Congress and the text of papers to be
read at it should be sent to the Hon. Secretary of the English
Committee not later than July 1st, 1923.
CASES.
I.
L. 1245. An Apparition at the Time of a fatal Illness.
The following case was first brought to our notice by a
Member of the Society, Mr. E. P. Larken, to whom the
percipient is personally known. In the case of the first of
the experiences related below it is unfortunately not possible
now to obtain corroboration, since the person to whom the
percipient tells us she related her experience before it was known
to be veridical does not remember the incident. Since, how-
ever, the percipient has in more recent years had another
experience of some psychic interest for which corroboration is
available, it seemed worth while to put the two incidents on
record together.
Mr. Larken's letter, addressed to Mrs. Salter, ran as follows :
April 1, 1923.
A friend of mine told me the other day of an experience she
had about ten or twelve years ago which seems to have been
of the nature of a " Phantasm of the living." She had just
got into bed when she saw the figure of her mother, who was
living in the country,^ standing by her bedside. She says that
she did not feel at all frightened, but spoke to the appearance
which turned away, and passed through the closed door. My
informant distinctly heard the rustling of the skirt of the dress
as she did so. That night or the next morning (she is not
sure which) my informant told her husband of her experience,
and later in the day a telegram arrived to say that the mother
^ The percipient was in London at the time.
JONE, 1923. Cases, 101
had had a stroke at the time of the appearance to my informant.
The stroke did not kill the mother at once, but it was the be-
ginning of the end. If the case seems worth recording my
informant will give you all the information you wish. She
says her husband will be able to vouch for having had the
information from her before the arrival of the telegram. Her
address is :
Mrs. E. H. Lacon Watson,
E. P. Larken.
In reply to the above letter Mrs. Salter wrote to Mrs.
Lacon Watson asking for a first-hand account of her experience
and a corroborative statement from her husband. Mrs.
Lacon W^atson replied as follows :
Afril 14, 1923.
I came to the conclusion that the incident I told you of was
of no value whatsoever, as my husband does not remember
anything at all about it, but I saw Mr. Larken to-day and he
has asked me particularly to send it on to you and also to write
very fully about it, which I am trying to do. The plain facts
are these and they are very clear in my mind. I was alone
in my bedroom and getting into bed, or had just got in when
my mother appeared by the bedside, it seemed, looking at me
but she at once moved across the room to the door and I heard
the rustle of her black dress. I expected to hear the door
close after her, but to my astonishment she vanished through
it, and I remember seeing the panels of the door as she vanished
through them. I then knew that I had not seen Mother at
all.
You can imagine I was very much upset about it,, as I felt
something must have happened to her. She had not been ill
at all and I was getting letters from her in the ordinary way.
I told my husband about it and I was very anxious to go to
Suffolk and see her the next morning, but although he told me
I could please myself, he also gave me to understand it would
be an absurd thing to do, as I should probably find her per-
fectly well, and he made me also feel that I had been foobsh
or fanciful, and said I had been dreaming ; and this is very
distinct in my mind, because I had told him I was awake and
l02 Journal of Society for Psyclncal Research. June, 1923.
I did not like being told I was asleep. He prevented me going
and I quite saw that to stay was the common-sense thing to
do. However I got a telegram that afternoon asking me to
come at once. Mother had had a stroke and was not ex-
l^ected to live. That was March, 1912 ; she died in July.
I see you ask if there was any light. 1 cannot remember,
except that I saw her dimly. . . .
I have had a good many what I call coincidences in an ordin-
ary way, but also one quite distinctly curious thing when my
old neighbour. Lady B., who was also a very great friend, died
two years ago, and also when a friend became blind ; this last
was years ago, when I was very young. But Lady B. was only
two years ago and I told my husband and also my maid about
it at the time, which they remember. . . .
Ruth Lacon Watson.
In reply to this letter Mrs. Salter wrote again to Mrs.
Lacon Watson asking for a detailed account of the two further
experiences mentioned above with corroborative statements,
if possible, in regard to her experience at the time of Lady
B.'s death. Mrs. Lacon Watson wrote as follows :
Afiil 21, 1923.
These experiences were so small that I fear they are hardly
worth writing ;
however, as you ask for them I will send them.
A great friend living next door but one was seriously ill after
an operation, but was so much better she was expecting to come
down the following week. I had been very anxious about her,
but was much relieved at her improvement. This was Friday,
September 16, 1921, and on Saturday I did not go to read the
bulletin on her door. I always take a rest when I can after
lunch, but on Saturday at 2.30 I felt so restless I could not
remain where I was and something impelled me to go down
and out into the garden without a hat or wrap, and it had
become very windy and was cold and showery. As I gazed up
I was under the impression that my old friend was being carried
by the wind out of her house and over the mulberry tree that
stands next door. I did not see her, but I felt she was going
through the air in streams of light. It was all imagination of
course and I felt quite annoyed with myself for being so silly
when I knew she was more or less out of danger. But what
June, 1923. Cases. 103
struck me at the time as being odd was that I felt obliged to
disturb myself to go out there and stand there for a time, until
the necessity to stay there had gone. The next day Sunday
I was out until 7 o'clock, when I went to read on the bulletin
that she had passed away at " 2.30 to-day." Monday we read
in the obituary notice that she had died on Saturday at 2.30.
I suppose the shock of reading her death prevented me noticing
the date and I thought she had died on Sunday, and told my
husband how odd it was that I had felt so near her on Saturday
but had never felt anything on Sunday at all. I also told my
present maid about it on Saturday which she remembers quite
well.
(She [Lady B.] died of sudden heart failure.)
Ruth Lacon Watson.
P.S. The other was only a dream, but it made a deep im-
pression. It was so long ago I don't even know the date. I
dreamt a friend was blind and wept absurdly about it and the
next day we got a letter saying he was temporarily blinded by
an accident at cricket.
With the above letter was enclosed a corroborative state-
ment from Mr. Lacon Watson, as follows :
April 22, 1923.
I have read the enclosed letter from my wife. So far as I
can remember the details her account of the first occurrence
described is perfectly accurate. Of that mentioned in the post-
script I know nothing ; it must have taken place long before
we became acquainted.
E. H. Lacon Watson.
Mrs. Salter then wrote to ask whether a corroborative
statement could be obtained from the maid to whom Mrs.
Lacon Watson had mentioned her experience at the time
of Lady B.'s death. In reply Mrs. Lacon Watson wrote as
follows :
April 26, 1923.
I am enclosing the letter from my maid you asked for. She
is not a great writer, but it is better I think for me not to
tell her to alter it in any way. . . .
Ruth Lacon Watson.
104 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 192.3.
With this was enclosed the following letter from the maid :
I quite well remember Mrs. Watson saying she saw Lady B.
passing through trees on Saturday afternoon. J. W.
II.
L. 1246. A Cross-Correspondence between Statements
MADE THROUGH TWO DIFFERENT MEDIUMS.
The following case has been sent to us by the Rev W. S.
Irving. Readers of the Journal will remember that several
other cases contributed by Mr. Irving have appeared in recent
years. The interest of the present incident lies in the fact
that there seems to have been an attempt on the part of a
deceased person communicating through two difierent mediums
to refer to the same topic. It will be seen that the state-
ments made were in part at least veridical. The two mediums
concerned were Mrs. Leonard and Mrs. Brittain, with each
of whom Mr. Irving has had a considerable number of sittings,
at all of which the same communicator, Mr. Irving' s wife,
habitually purports to be present. We give first an extract
from Mr. Irving's sitting with Mrs. Brittain, which took
place on January 24th, 1923 :
Belle.1 Did she \i.e. communicator] be frightened of spiders ?
She shows me a lovely garden that has shrubs
and flowers, all covered with gossamer, not all
little round webs, like pretty cobwebs, garden,
cobwebby things. Like cobweb's lace, and there's
something she's trying to convey to me about
this garden, as if weaving a pattern Me
thinks it symbolical thing for you to find out
afterwards.
The above extract is certified by Mr. R. R. Farmer, the
friend who acted as Mr. Irving's recorder, to be a correct
transcript of the notes he took at the sitting.
The sitting with Mrs. Leonard, at which Mr. Irving acted
as his own recorder, took place on the following day,
January 25th, 1923. The relevant extract is as follows
:
W. S. I. Have you been down to see me lately ?
^ Mrs. Brittain's usual control.
June, 1923. Cases. 105
Feda. I have been down a little while ago and a long time
ago. Is a cage empty ?
W. S. I. We haven't got a cage.
F. It look so, it got pieces across the front like a cage
thing.
You can look into it, so it's not an ordinary cup-
board.
W. S. I. Not the meat-safe, was it ?
F. Dora [communicator] says, " It was the meat-safe and
nothing in it. The spiders get close to it, not in
a good place.
(Later in the sitting the communicator purported to con-
trol the medium herself, and the following statement was
made) :
D. G. I. Did you hear a remark of Feda's just now about
spiders ? It was something I thought you'd re-
^nembered. It wasn't just about the meat-safe.
I was trying to remind you of something. Will,
I didn't like them when I was here, I wasn't think-
ing of anything in my earth life. It was very
important I should say " spiders " to Feda. Isn't
it peculiar 1 We hadn't been saying anything that
in Feda's mind led up to spiders. Feda didn't
know why I was mentioning spiders. She didn't
at all. I think she thought I meant spiders in
the meat-safe. You do understand I mentioned
it because of something that's been happening
lately ? Do you know, I want to say a word
beginning with B connected with that ? Isn"t it
funny ? I've got to push things through. It's
like the camel and eye of needle. You know I
don't always talk about spiders, do I ?
After reading the two extracts given above. Miss Newton
put some questions to Mr. Irving, which we give below to-
gether with his answers.
1. {Is it true that your wife did not like spiders?)
I don't think my wife disliked spiders more than most
people do, nobody likes them in the house. We have always
had rather a lot of spiders here. Our house is largely
106 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1923.
covered witli Virginia Creeper, and as the bedroom windows
are usually open, spiders of large size are often found in
the rooms.
2. (Where is the meat-safe kept?)
In the pantry, close to an open window covered with
wire netting. The meat-safe referred to, though, may be
an old one discarded last year, and now left in an out-
house. It was said to be " empty."
3. {Is it true that " spiders get close to it" ?)
Probably, especially to the latter one.
4. (7s there any association in your mind between spiders and
the meat-safe ? Or do you know of any reason why the com-
municator should thus associate them ?)
No.
5. {Have spiders ever been mentioned before at any of your
sittings with Mrs. Leonard, Mrs. Brittain, and other mediums ?)
Never so far as I can remember.
6. {So far as you know, did Mrs. Brittain know that you were
going to have a sitting tvith Mrs. Leonard the next day ? And
had you told Mrs. Leonard that you were going to have a sitting
tvith Mrs. Brittain, or that you had had one ?)
•
No.
Subsequently Mr. Irving sent us the following note, dated
April 19th, 1923 :
My housekeeper decided to take advantage of my coming visit
to town on April 16th, to clean out and lime-wash the pantry
and china closets, which had not been done for some years. In
preparation for this she removed the contents of the upper shelf
in the pantry, which was full of empty jam jars. This shelf
extends over the meat-safe. This was on March 27th, 1923. In
the evening she came to me to tell me of the numerous spiders
she had encountered, and I took down at once an accoxint of what
she said; which I enclose. I have never myself connected spiders
with the pantry. My housekeeper, of course, knows nothing of
my psychical experiments.
W. S. Irving.
June, 1923. Cases. 107
With the above was enclosed the foUowmg note of Mr.
Irving's conversation with his housekeeper :
March 27, 1923.
I had a turn at cleaning, the pantry, and the spiders ! They
drop ofi the shelves into the food. They must have been there
some time.
W. S. I. Were they alive 1
Oh, they were ! And alive. In the jars and under
the jars. That's why I want it white-washed.
They keep dropping down onto the food. They
were there when I came. I'll give it a good dose
of lime.
W. S. I. Did you know there were a lot of spiders there before 'I
No, I didn't.
The following corroborative statement by a neighbour of
Mr. Irving's was also enclosed :
April 21, 1923.
I certify that Mrs. Jones, the Rev. W. S. Irving's house-
keeper, this evening on being questioned stated to me that when
cleaning out the pantry about three weeks ago she found the
shelf above the meat-safe full of spiders.
R. R. Farmer.
THE ALLEGED POLTEEGEIST DISTURBANCES AT
GOREFIELD.
About February 17th, 1923, accounts began to be received by
the Society of a series of violent disturbances in the house of
a Cambridgeshire fruit farmer at Gorefield, near Wisbech.
The Research Officer communicated with the vicar, the Rev.
J. H. Rutter, on the subject of the occurrences and acting
on the report received visited the scene of the disturbances.
No phenomena occurred during his presence in the house, and
although they have a good deal in common with similar
occurrences elsewhere, no definite evidence was obtained for
their supernormal origin. Later information seemed to indicate
that the young girl of the family was observed trying to
108 Jouifnal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1923.
produce " phenomena " herself, but an attempt to substantiate
these reports has not been succes.sful. A more detailed report
can be seen in the Society's files on application.
REVIEW.
Teleplasina mid Telekinese. By Dr. F. Schwab. Berhu. 1923.
Pp. 109.
This volume is an account in general terms of a series of sittings
with the Berlin medium who is usually known as Frau Maria
Vollhart. The phenomena are mainly physical and appear to be
of exceptional interest. Although the conditions can hardly be
called satisfactory Dr. Schwab's observations are worthy of some
careful attention. Besides the movement of objects, Frau Vollhart
produces teleplasm of the kind made familiar by Eva C. The
substance, as in Eva's case, is derived apparently from the bodily
orifices, and Dr. Schwab succeeded in obtaining some remarkable
photographs of its extrusion from the mouth. Apports, lights
and occasionally complete levitation of the medium are also
reported, although it seems a pity that Dr. Schwab did not
attempt a more detailed investigation. The value of the book
is not so much in its reports, which are not nearly sufficiently
detailed, but in the light the phenomena throw upon similar
occurrences reported from all parts of Europe. E. J. D.
No. COOXCyH.-V„L. XXI. j„„^ ,,,23,
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
The Rooms of the Society at 31 Tavistock Square, London,
W.C. 1, will be closed after Saturday, July 28th, re-opening on
Monday, September 3rd. The next number of the "
Journal
"
will be issued in October.
NEW MEMBEKS.
Korenchevsky, Professor V., M.D., Lister Institute of Preventive
Medicine, Chelsea Gardens, London, S.W. L
Weldon, Arthur, 27 Arlington Road, Eastbourne, Sussex.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 202nd Meeting of the Council was held at .31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C, on Wednesday, July 4th, 1923, at
3 p.m. ;
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the chair. There
were also present :
Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mr. J. G. Piddiugton,
Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. Salter, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, Mr.
Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J. WooUey
;
also Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The Council appointed Mr. E. J. Dingwall as their official
representative at the International Congress for Psychical
Research to be held in August at Warsaw.
The Monthly Accounts for May and June, 1923, were pre-
sented and taken as read.
110 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, July, 1923.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 164tli General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Steinway Hall, Wigmore Street, London, W., on Tuesday,
June 26th, 1923, at 3 p.m.
The Presidential Address by M. Camille Flammarion was
read (in English) by Sir Williaivi Barrett, F.E.S., and
will be published later in the Proceedings.
EESPONSE TO THE APPEAL. FIFTH REPORT.
DONATIONS.
In response to the further Appeal printed in the Journal
for last May asking for donations towards the provision and
equipment of a room to be devoted specially to seances, an
Associate of the Society, who desires to remain anonymous,
has sent a donation of £325 to be used for this purpose.
The thanks of the Council have been conveyed to the generous
donor and plans for carrying out the necessary alterations
of the Society's premises at 31 Tavistock Square are now under
consideration.
We print below a further list of donations received towards
the expenses of research and removal.
Expenses op Research.
Anonymous. (Seance room) - £325 0 0
Miss K. Barlow (and her brother) 10 0 0
J. Arthur Hill ----- 10 0 0
A. R. Bonus ----- 5 0 0
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. 5 0 0
Susan Countess of Malmesbury 5 0 0
Mrs. J. G. Walker - - - ..
5 0 0
Mrs. Walter Heape (annually) 3 3 0
Mrs. Beni de Goldschmidt -
2 0 0
To BE Allocated between Removal and Research.
A. Blair Thaw ----- - £10 0 0
Mrs. Arthur Tugwell - - - -
2 0 0
Miss Ahce M. Dike - - - -
1 0 0
July, 1923. Concerning the Presidential Address. Ill
CONCERNING THE PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
It is proposed to print a limited number of copies of the
English translation of Monsieur Camille Flammarion's Presi-
dential Address (read at a meeting of the Society on June
26th last). The translation will be issued in pamphlet form
and the price will be Is. 6d. to Members of the Society and
2s. to the public. It is hoped to have it ready by the time
the Society's Rooms re-open early in September. Members
who w^sh to secure one or more copies are asked to write
to the Secretary, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
The Presidential Address in the original French will in
the ordinary course be published in Proceedings.
OBITUARY NOTICE.
Colonel C. E. Baddeley, C.B., C.M.O.
We have to record with regret the death of Colonel C. E.
Baddeley, which occurred upon the 28th April, following an
operation.
Colonel Baddeley was a keen student of psychical research
and had during recent years devoted much of his time to
the subject. The Society was indebted to him for help in
various ways, and in particular for the considerable amount
of work he did in connexion with the experiment carried
out by the Society upon " the element of chance in book
tests," a report upon which recently appeared in the Pro-
ceedings (Part LXXXVIL, p. 606 ff.).
Those who are both able and willing to undertake work
of this kind are not too numerous, and Colonel Baddeley's
death is a loss to psychical research.
CONCERNING THE PROPOSED EXPERIMENTS
WITH THE CREWE CIRCLE.
In the Journal for last May it was stated that an enquiry
by the Society into the mediumship of Mr. Hope and Mrs.
Buxton had been arranged and woiild, it was hoped, take
place during the present year. A definite and detailed written
a2
112 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1923,
agreement, covering all the conditions under which the first
sittings of the enquiry were to take place, had, before the
May Journal was issued, been reached between the Research
Committee of the Society and the three representatives of
the Crewe Circle, Miss F. R. Scatcherd, Mr. H. Engholm
and Mr. G. E. Wright. Since that date, however, the Crewe
Circle have raised objections to carrying out this agreement,
and as considerable misconception appears to prevail in some
quarters as to the Society's action in the matter, it is felt
that a short statement of the course of negotiations is desir-
able.
It will be remembered that we are indebted to Mr. H. W. Pugh
for an offer of £100 to cover the cost of an enquiry into
Mr. Hope's mediumship. On the 23rd July, 1922, at Mr.
Pugh's suggestion, he and our Research Officer, Mr. E. J.
Dingwall, went by appointment to the British College of
Psychic Science to meet Mr. Hope and Mrs. Buxton. Mr.
Hope and Mrs. Buxton were very friendly in manner, and
in the course of the interview they both signed a statement
to the effect that they agreed to take part in an enquiry
into their phenomena by the S.P.R. The nature of the
agreement was recorded in Light, July 29, .1922, p. 467, as
follows : .
Psychic Photogkaphy.
Mr. J. Hewat M'Kenzie writes : Your readers will be interested
to learn that Mr. Hope and Mrs. Buxton authorise me to say
that they willingly agree to co-operate with the Society for
Psychical Research in the proposed experiments on the lines set
out in your recent issues ; it being, however, a condition that
the Society shall first provide Mr. Hope with details as to the
extra marked plate purporting to belong to Mr. Price. Upon
this being done, the sittings will take place in the autumn, and
to establish the best conditions, will be carried out with as
little public attention as j^ossible.
It is to to be observed that this agreement was reached
nearly two months after the Report of Mr. Price's sitting
had been printed in the Journal for May, 1922, that Mr.
July, 1923. Proposed Experiments ivith the Crewe Circle. 113
Hope, when he signed the agreement, was evidently quite
famiUar with the general tenor of that report, and that the
only stipulation made by him in regard to Mr. Price's sitting
or the report thereon was that he should be " provided with
details as to the extra marked plate purporting to belong
to Mr. Price." This stipulation has long since been com-
pUed with. There was not even a hint that Mr. Hope or
Mrs. Buxton regarded the imputation of fraud contained in
the report as any obstacle to the proposed sittings.
On March 23rd, 1923, a letter was received from Mr. G. E.
Wright, of the London Spiritualist Alhance, suggesting that
a Committee of six persons should be appointed, three nomi-
nated by the S.P.R., and three by the L.S.A. " on behalf of
Mr. Hope," to consider conditions under which experiments
with the Crewe Circle should be carried out. The Research
Committee of the S.P.R. agreed to this suggestion, and
appointed three of their own members, and shortly afterwards
a further letter was received from Mr. Wright to the effect
that the L.S.A. had nominated Miss Scatcherd, Mr. Engholm
and himself " on behalf of the Crewe Circle." This Com-
mittee met several times during April and May, and ultimately
after a good deal of discussion a definite agreement covering
the earUer sittings was, as above stated, arrived at, and a
statement was accordingly inserted in the May Journal.
Towards the end of May, after the May Journal had gone
to press, Mr. Wright informed Mr. Dingwall over the telephone
that before Mr. Hope and Mrs. Buxton would consent to any
experiments with the S.P.R., they demanded something in
the nature of a withdrawal of the charge of fraud made against
them in the Journal for May, 1922. Although negotiations
with regard to the proposed enquiry had been proceeding
since July, 1922, this was the first intimation of any kind
that either Mr. Hope or Mrs. Buxton required a withdrawal
as a condition precedent to the investigation.
In view of this unexpected development the Hon. Editor,
Mrs. Salter, wrote to Mr. Wright on the 14th June, 1923,
enquiring exactly how matters stood, as it was proposed to
make a further statement in the Journal, and on the 5th
July Mr. Wright wrote regretting that his Committee had
114 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1923.
not yet received any definite statement from the Crewe Circle,
and added that he hoped it might be possible to furnish the
Society with something definite before long.
There the matter at present stands. The stipulation on
which Mr. Hope and Mrs. Buxton now insist is obviously
an afterthought. No negotiations can ever reach a satis-
factory conclusion if after an agreement has been reached one
party shifts their ground and raises new objections. If the
Crewe Circle desire to have their phenomena investigated
by the S.P.R., they have only to carry out the terms agreed
to by their representatives from the L.S.A.
In conclusion we may express our appreciation of the
friendly spirit shown by the three representatives of the
L.S.A. in these negotiations, and our sympathy for the un-
fortunate position in which they have been placed—we hope
only temporarily—by the Crewe Circle's repudiation of the
terms Avhich their representatives had accepted.
CASE.
L. 1246. An Auditory Hallucination.
In the following case the percipient, Miss Ethel Butler, heard
herself called three times at about the time when a favourite
sister in Australia was lapsing into the unconsciousness which
preceded her death. The case has been enquired into by
the Research Officer, Mr. E. J. Dingwall, who first heard
of it from Miss Butler's father on January 16, 1923, and
wrote on January 20th for further particulars.
In reply to Mr. Dingwall's letter Mr. Butler wrote as
follows :
—
. 60 Herongate Road,
Wanstead, E 12.
29 Jan., 1923.
In reply to your request for an account of the incident I
spoke to you about at the Lecture you gave at Manor Park
on the 16th instant when I said my eldest daughter heard her
name (Ethel) called three times on the 31st July last. I most
distinctly remember her coming up to the window where I was
July, 1923. Case. 115
sitting at work and saying, " Yes, what do you want ?
" I replied,
" I didn't call you !
" The second time she heard her name
she put the same question and I gave the same answer. The
third time she thought it was her youngest sister who called
so went to the bottom of the stairs and called up " Yes, Edie,
what do you want ?
" and the reply was, " Why I haven't called
you."
We received the news of my daughter's death on the 16th
Sept. from the Matron of the Mining District Hospital New South
Wales saying she became unconscious on the evening of 31st
July and died at 11.20 a.m. on 1st August. This latter date
is indelibly fixed in my memory as on that morning from what
cause I cannot say but on that morning I told my daughter
that a boat race would start from London Bridge at 12 noon
to Chelsea for Doggett's Coat and Badge, and that when I was
a boy I saw it start on one occasion.
My daughter who died in Australia went out and married an
Australian soldier whom she nursed in Colchester Military Hospital.
She was married in Sydney 2-5 May 1920 and went to live on
a Soldier's Settlement at Milperra Bankstown. Within 6 months
he deserted her and went off with a married woman who was a
witness at the Wedding and helj^ed to select some of the furni-
ture for the home paid for with money my daughter cabled him.
This of course worried her very much but she would not let
us know by writing about it to us nor would she allow anyone
else to communicate her circumstances. She followed him 300
miles up and down K.S. Wales trying to reclaim him for about
20 months without success. At last we know from a friend
with whom she stayed for some time that she left off worrying
about her husband and was worrying about us. She was very
much attached to her sister (Ethel) who was 7 years her senior
and told a neighbour some time before she went out that she
" would never meet another woman like her sister Ethel." At
the end of her nursing at Colchester she had a severe attack
of pneumonia but as soon as Ethel entered the ward the effect
was psychological for she began to get better at once.
I am enclosing statements from my daughters and I trust that
these may be useful to you for the purpose of research.
J. Butler.
116 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1923.
With Mr. Butler's letter was enclosed a statement from
the percipient, as follows :
—
60 Herongate Ed.
London, E 12.
Jan. 29th, 1923.
On July 31st [1922] between the hour of 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. I
heard my name called distinctly three times. I was so sure that
I came in from the garden to my father, and said " Yes, what is
it you want ?
" He assured me he did not call me.
I also went from a downstairs room into the hall, and stand-
ing at the foot of the stairs called up to my youngest sister
asking her what she wanted.
To me it was a distinct call. My name was spoken clearly.
I thought nothing of it at the time, merely remarking " What
is the matter with me, I'm certain someone called me."
We heard six weeks later, that my sister in Australia had
become unconscious the evening of July 31st and died 11.20 a.m.
Aug. 1st.
Ethel Annie Butler.
A statement from Miss Butler's sister was also enclosed,
as follows :
—
60 Herongate Eoad,
London, E 12.
29-1-23.
On the morning of July 31st between the hour of 9 a.m.
and 10 a.m. I was upstairs, and twice my sister called up the
stairs and asked me what I wanted. I replied that I had not
called her.
Edith C. Butler.
Mr. Dingwall then wrote saying that he would like to have
a talk with Miss Butler about her experience. An interview
was arranged, concerning which Mr. Dingwall reported as
follows :
—
I visited Mr. and Miss Ethel Butler at their residence on
Tuesday, April 10th, at 3.15 p.m. Miss E. Butler is a woman
of about 45, general housekeeper to the family and a thoroughly
sensible, practical woman. She assured me that, although at
times she had dreams which appeared later to have been verified,
she has never to her knowledge been mistaken when she heard
July, 1923. Case. 117
herself called. The death certificate of her sister she told me
was with the Prudential Assurance Co.
E. J. Dingwall.
Subsequently Mr. Dingwall obtained from the Prudential
Assurance the following letter :
—
Re Maky Elizabeth Butler. Claim 4213 or Bell.
Dear Sir,
I am in receipt of your letter and we find we have
paid a claim on the life of a Mary Elizabeth Bell, daughter of
J. Butler of 60, Herongate Rd., Manor Park, who died in New
South Wales on the 1st August 1922. If you would obtain the
Father's written authority for you to inspect the Certificate of
death we shall be pleased to exhibit it to you here.
Yours faithfully,
J. Burn,
Manager and Actuary.
Since New South Wales time is nine hours in advance of
English (Summer) time, the time at which Miss Butler heard
the voice calling her (about 10.30 a.m., July 31, 1922), would
correspond to 7.30 p.m., July 31, 1922, in New South Wales.
Miss Butler's sister is said to have become unconscious " on
the evening of July 31st."
CORRESPONDENCE.
I. A CORRECTION CONCERNING A CASE PUBLISHED IN
PROCEEDINGS.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Dear Madam,—I have received from a friend a letter cor-
recting certain statements in the account given in the Journal,
Vol. XVI., and hence in my paper on " Phantasms of the Living
'
in the last number of Proceedings, of the sinking of H.M.S.
Pathfinder and bearing on Miss " Ann Jones's " contemporaneous
dream of September 5, 1914.
My friend writes :
—
On page 353 of the October issue of the S.P.R. Proceedings
there is a certain inaccuracy in respect of the sinking of the
118 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1923.
Pathfinder quite immaterial in itself, but as I know how you
value precise statements I venture to draw your attention to it.
The time of the exj^losion was 3.50 ; not 4.30. And although
... the Admiralty at first announced it as due to a mine,
it was in fact due to a torpedo. . . .
The fact that the ship was torpedoed and not mined
seems to me to be of special interest in relation to Miss
" Ann Jones's " swoon like state, inasmuch as it initiated
a new method of warfare and as such may have had a
more powerful influence on the dreamer.
In support of her statement my friend enclosed a copy of an
interesting account of the wreck written on the next day by her
son, who was one of the survivors, and a letter from the Captain
describing this account as excellent.
I agree with my correspondent in thinking that the fact of
the ship having been torpedoed—not sunk by a mine—is im-
portant. For whereas striking a mine would have been a sudden
event not anticipated at the moment by anyone, the torpedoing
would be the result of meditated action which the perpetrators
may have been endeavouring to carry out even before Miss
Jones's swoon-like state began. Contrary, therefore, to what I
said in my paper, this state may in both her experiences have
been part of the telepathic effect. The whole experience—swoon-
like state and drowning dream—would on this hypothesis be in
the case of the AmpJiion a deferred impression, and in the case
of the Pathfinder a contemporaneous one influenced both by the
planning and the fatal result. This is of course conjecture only,
but not entirely baseless, and it is important to find hypotheses
which harmonise different experiences.
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
Dec. 15, 1922.
II. ON THE PROCESS OF TRANSMISSION.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Dear Madam,—The Rev. W. S. Irving's article in the May
issue contains suggestions of considerable interest, upon which he
invites comments.
On his first point, viz. that communicators prepare in advance
the material given at a sitting, I would like to observe that if
this surmise is correct it would afford an explanation of the fact
July, 1923. Correspondence. 119
that the communication purporting to be given about Abraham
Florentine coincided verbatim with the obituary notice published
in the States (see S.P.R. Journal, Nov. 1921).
In his second suggestion Mr. Irving says, " Everything happens
as if the control actually saw, heard and smelt." A recent
experience of my own has a feature of special significance in this
connection.
A communication came to me last year through my friend
Miss Bazett, who has for several years past been receiving messages
for bereaved persons, frequently from complete strangers to her.
Previous to the communication above referred to I had received
a letter " from a friend (S. G.) through her mediumship. As it
contained evidential matter, it occurred to me to ask Miss Bazett
if she could again get into touch with S. G. to put two test
questions to her. One was a mental question (not expressed to
the medium), which was answered satisfactorily, but not sufficiently
definitely to be up to the S.P.R. standard. In the second ques-
tion I asked : Could S. G. say how she always closed her letters
to me l I added, " She always signed her name or initials, but
I do not mean that ; she had her own way of ending her letters
to me almost invariably." Miss Bazett had never seen one of
her letters to me, and I knew she had no normal means of know-
ing the correct answer. She willingly co-operated to obtain this,
test, as she realises the value of such tests as much as I do
myself.
In the " controlled script " I found no reply to this question :
but the impressions received by Miss Bazett at the time the
script was written appeared to convey the following correct
answer. At the same time Miss Bazett had a very correct impres-
sion of the personal appearance of S. G., with this auditory
impression. It must be remembered that she had never seen her
or heard her speak. The part of her impression bearing on Mr.
Irving's suggestion is as follows :
" Some word beginning PH,
ending in S. or ES. She would enunciate words very clearly
[correct] I think articulation exceedingly clear, not smeared in any
way—low and clear [correct]—Vowels like AE or A in the middle
of the word—very nice articulation clear speech. A word like
.PHASES, possibly, or rhyming with it. . .
." Later :
—" There is
a poetic touch—the idea of FRIEND elaborated in some sort of
expression."
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1923.
S. G. always closed her letters to me with the words :
" Your
faithful friend." When I first read this impression I could see
Ho meaning in the letters PH. A E, but as they were in capitals
it seemed likely that they had some special significance ; when I
read them as a syllable I was struck by the fact that PHAE
produces the sound of the first three letters of the word " faith."
If S. G. was trying to convey that word to her mental sense of
hearing Miss Bazett would get this impression, which she repro-
duced as literally as possible in spelling. " Th " is a difficult
sound to catch, and is not capable of reproduction in other letters
of the alphabet, but might easily be mistaken for " S.S." One
has only to pronounce the word " faith " in a whisper to recognise
this. I imagine that, having failed to convey the whole
word by the auditory method, S. G. tried to convey the sense of
it in the later sentence by referring to " the idea of FRIEND
elaborated in some sort of expression." She, no doubt, relied
upon my being able to understand what she was trying to convey ;
and I did.
I have thought it worth while to report this experience fully,
because it supports Mr. Irving's suggestion, and, also, because it
affords a possible explanation of some apparent errors in giving
names. If the communicator is trying to impress the auditory
faculty of the recipient, and the latter translates the sound impres-
sions exactly into letters of the alphabet, the spelling of the name
(for sight) may be quite wrong. " PHAE " and " fai " are not
equivalents for sight, but they are for sound.
Mr. Irving's third suggestion finds corroboration in many com-
munications, some of which are, if I remember right, published
in the S.P.R. Proceedings. They seem to indicate that the com-
municator is not always aware whether his message has been
received. H. A. Dallas.
REVIEWS.
I.
0 Trabalho dos Mortos. (Livro do Joao). By Dr. Nogueira de
Faria. Rio de Janeiro, Brasil. 1921. Pp. xvii, 221.
This is an account of the phenomena which are said to occur in
the presence of Madame Prado, the wife of Eurij^edes Prado,
a merchant in Belem do Para, Brazil. Sujiporting the reality
JULT, 1923. Reviews. 121
of the phenomena are a great number of local medical men
and others, including Dr. Jose Texeira da Matla Bacellar, Dr.
I. Xavier de Carvalho, Dr. Pio de Andrade Ramos and many
others. The circle is a typically spiritualistic one, with all the
customs and traditions common in gatherings of the kind. At
the sittings a dim light only was provided, and the medium
either sat in a cabinet, a cage or at the table. Varied phenomena
are reported to have been observed, of which the chief were the
full form materializations which walked and talked as in the
golden days of spiritualism. Several photographs were taken,
and some of these are reproduced in the book. Thus Grav.
4, p. 17, illustrates the spirit of " Joao," to whom the book is
dedicated. The phantom appears as if dressed in a voluminous
sheet, with white stockings and muffler. The face seems curiously
flat, and even the head is something like the handle of a basket
bound up with white material. These flat faces seem, as in the
case of Gazzera, characteristic of Mme. Prado's mediumship.
Grav. 29 illustrates such a formation in a striking way. The
medium is seated in a cage, beside the side of which is a second
cage containing two buckets of melted paraffin wax. From
the medium's mouth proceeds a broad band of white substance,
part of which goes to form a flat strip of material on which
at the top is seemingly stuck a flat doll-like head, whilst the
other part proceeds in a narrower strip into the second cage,
Tvhere it falls down towards the buckets, appearing rather like
a crude hand at its lower part. With this photograph Grav. 9-a
may be compared, and the similarity with the productions of
Linda Gazzera can hardly fail to be recognized. On the other
hand, the thick hands and solid masked head in Grav. 30 are
reminiscent of Kluski's earlier efforts, whereas the form photo-
graphed on Grav. 32 is a combination of the two. Here we
have what appears to be an ordinary person arrayed in a sheet,
with bare hands and one bare foot, whilst the face is absent,
a child's portrait being apparently attached to the sheet at the
point which covers the " real " face of the form, a decidedly
startling effect. Among other phenomena recorded are a number
of wax moulds, finger-print impressions, direct writings, apparent
cases of dermographism, apports and a series of transparent
phantoms of which photographs are included. Although the
conditions would probably not satisfy a critical investigation,
122 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1923.
enough is given to provide serious study, especially in the com-
parative field. What is wanted is a connected series of sittings
under scientific guidance and control with the object not only
of securing evidence of the reality of the phenomena, but also
of discovering the common factor seemingly present in all materiali-
zation processes from Warsaw to Belfast, from Turin to Copen-
hagen or from Munich to Para. E. J. D.
II.
Le Mediumistne et la Sorbonne. By Juliette Alexandke-Bisson,.
Paris. F. Alcan. 1923. Pp. 137. 6 fr. net.
This book is a reprint of the report of the Sorbonne professors
on the phenomena of Eva C, together with notes by Mme.
Bisson and some supplementary material. The remarks by Mme.
Bisson are the most valuable part of the book. They show the
attitude adopted by the observers and the effect on the medium.
That the investigation should have been arranged at all shows
how indomitable is Mme. Bisson's courage and enthusiasm. For
over ten years she has worked, observed and recorded. Yet
one of the Sorbonne professors, after only sparing a quarter of
an hour and coming to one sitting signs the " report " as if
he had really attempted to give the subject serious consideration.
Is it surprising that the medium is disgusted and that Mme.
Bisson deplores the attitude of la science qfficielle ? Can it really
be supposed that the meaning of mediumshij) which has eluded
tireless investigators for forty years wUl be elucidated by a
physiologist in fifteen minutes ? Scientists will wait months for
an eclipse or a meteoric shower, hut cannot remain a few hours
in order to observe phenomena of far greater interest and im-
portance. For exposing the methods of the Sorbonne Commission,
Mme. Bisson deserves the thanks of psychical researchers. How-
ever little her work and that of her medium is esteemed to-day,
we have little doubt that j)osterity will recognize the value of
her contribution to the phenomena of materialization.
E. J. D.
III.
Lola, or The Thought and Speech of Animals. By Henny Kinder-
MANN. Translated by Agnes Blake : with a Chapter on
Thinking Animals by Dr. William Mackenzie. Methuen
& Co., Ltd., 36 Essex Street, W.C., London.
This is a book which it is easier to ignore than to place rightly.
July, 1923. Reviews. 123
It contains a detailed account by a German lady of her education
of, and intercourse with, an Airedale terrier, Lola, daughter of
Rolf, the Mannheim dog who has long been classed with the
Thinking Horses of Herr Krall. Lola was taught to rap replies
to audible questions : to each letter of the alphabet a number
was assigned, not necessarily corresponding to its place in the
alphabet, and by using the left paw for tens and the right for
units spelling seems to have proceeded fairly rapidly. Among
the minor difficulties raised by these performances and those of
the horses who communicate similarly, it does not seem to have
been yet observed how un-natural a decimal system of numeration
must be to animals not possessing ten distinct digits.
Fraiilein Kindermann believes that she has not only taught her
dog to spell, to read and tell the time, to do sums of quite
advanced difficulty, and to know the days of the week, but that
the dog is capable of intercourse, as the following incident suggests.
Lola had been going after game disobediently, and had also been
losing flesh, and when questioned about her behaviour by her
mistress persistently affirmed that her condition was due to her
want of honour. One day the following discourse took place
:
^'
Have you any excuse to make for such behaviour ?
" " Yes."
"Then, what is it?" " Ich ohne er " ( = 1 am without honour).
" But, Lola, you are only making things worse—if you are naughty
-and go off like this after game !
" " Zu schwer zu leben !
"
(=too difficult to live!). "Lola! how can honour be made good
again?" " Wenn ich sterbe !
" (=if I die). When we consider
that the idea of honour is a special product of chivalry and one
not at all familiar to children or savages, it is difficult to suppose
that it had really taken root in Lola's mind. Moreover, when we
find her mistress convinced that in some cases there was thought
transference between herself and the dog, we may question whether
this was not taking place when she believed herself to be passive.
A valuable part of the book is the additional chapter by Dr.
William Mackenzie of Genoa, who attributes these phenomena to
a, very particular psychic relation between the animal and his
master." Fraiilein Kindermann herself lays stress on her belief
that one particular person is most en rapport with a particular
dog ; she concludes that her dog is really unconscious of the
ideas supposed to emanate from her. And yet the mind of the
dog seems a necessary element for many of the results. To the
124 Journal of Society for PsycJtical Research. July, 1923.
present reviewer some such theory as the following seems plaus-
ible : —In physical nature there are certain objects which reflect
others, as water and glass—in them we become aware of aspects
of ourselves which otherwise would remain unknown to us ; and
if we were not so familiar with looking-glasses we should not at
first recognise these images as in any way caused by ourselves.
May these not equally be reflected in the psychic world ? and may
not the imperfect mind of the dog and the trance mind of the
medium be the means of revealing to us aspects of our own minds
hitherto unrecognised ?
Telepathy co-existent with mediumistic action is Dr. Mackenzie's
theory, and he compares the action of the animal and that of a
speaking table, but a table with live feet and a nervous system,
" so that the subliminal action of the investigator is enough by
itself to work it." The rapidity with which the animal learns
its lessons even when apparently quite inattentive favours this
hypothesis. . „
'
^ Agnes Fry.
IV.
La TelejMthie. By E. Warcollier, Ingenieur-CMmiste. Felix
Alcan. 20 frcs.
This book well deserves the tribute paid to it by Prof. Richet,
who writes the introduction, of being a scientific contribution
to the subject. Monsieur Warcollier has evidently made a special
study of telepathy for many years and has himself carried out
a large number of experiments ; in some of his most successful
results he has himself played the part of percipient.
In one respect M. Warcollier is at issue with the majority
of his fellow researchers in this country. He seems to find very
difiicult of acceptance the idea that telepathy may be a purely
psychic process, operating between one mind and another (and
incidentally he rejects the hypothesis of telepathic communica-
tion between the living and the dead) ; he conceives it as a
psycho-physical process consisting in the transmission of certain
vibrations from one living brain to another, the process being
in the first instance wholly unconscious on both sides. " If I
think of the word '
red '
or the word '
mother,' " he says, " why
should not the vibratory currents which result from the emotional
stimuli of these words, be capable of producing identical vibra-
tory currents in a brain similarly constructed to my own ?
"
July, 192:5. Reviews. 125
He suggests that these vibrations are transmitted in all directions
in the same manner as light, heat, etc., but in the great majority
of cases they never rise into the percipient's consciousness, being
ignored or suppressed on the Bergsonian theory of selection to
meet the practical needs of life.
M. Warcollier"s suggestions as to the ultimate nature of tele-
pathy are admittedly a [matter of theory only and are fraught
with difficulties which to some of us may seem insuperable. But
even if we are not inclined to follow him in these speculations,
we shall find much that is interesting and valuable in the large
section of his book which is devoted to a record of experiments
and to a discussion of such practical questions as what are the
conditions most conducive to telepathy, and what kind of ideas
or sensory stimuli are most easUy transferred.
It is impossible in a short review to give any detailed account
of M. Warcollier's results—those who are interested may read
his records for themselves—but he puts forward one suggestion
to which it seems worth while to call attention here. In common
with other experimenters in this field M. Warcollier has been
impressed by the extreme tediousness of the simpler forms of
telepathic experiment, whereby not only are people discouraged
from making any systematic efforts in this direction, but their
efforts are less likely to meet with success. He has, therefore,
given a good deal of time and trouble to devising schemes for
mitigating this tediousness. Many of his schemes have for one
reason or another proved unsatisfactory, but with one he has
obtained a certain amount of success and he thinks it worth
further trial.
The form of the experiment is based upon an old game of
chance. The percipient sits with a full pack of cards (52) spread
before him face upwards. The agent, who plays the part of
" banker," has a complete suit of thirteen cards, well-shuffled,
from which he draws one card at random and looks at it. The
percipient then selects any card he pleases from those laid out
before him and this card is paired with the agent's card. The
game continues in this way, until the agent has " played " his
thirteen cards, and the thirteen pairs of cards are then examined
to see whether in any case the number of the card selected
by the percipient (the suit is for this purpose immaterial) tallies
with the number of the corresponding card drawn by the agent.
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1923.
At the beginning of each game the percipient should pay his
stake (say, one counter) to the banker (the agent) on the under-
standing that if in that game there is no instance of corresponding
numbers the banker keeps the stake, but for each case of corre-
spondence he pays the amount of the stake to the percipient.
Now chance will give one set of corresponding numbers in each
game of thirteen cards, and therefore on a sufficiently prolonged
series, if the results are attributable to chance alone, the agent
and percipient should be quits ; but any telepathic power on the
part of the percipient will weight the scales in his favour.
Two further points should be noted :
(1) between each game
the percipient's pack should be taken up, shuffled, and laid
down again, so that the cards are not always in the same rela-
tive jMsitions ; (2) the agent and percipient should, if possible,
sit in different rooms, as they did in M. Warcollier's experiments.
They must in any case have a substantial screen between them.
Upon each occasion that M. Warcollier was able to try this
experiment the percipient won, which seems encouraging,—at
least to persons possessed of telepathic powers. If any of our
members are moved to spend the winter evenings in a telejaathic
gamble, it is to be hoped that they will give the Society the
benefit of their results !
M. Warcollier records in detail a series of experiments he
tried with a friend of his on the same general lines as the ex-
periments between Miss Miles and Miss Ramsden, recorded in
our Proceedings. He played the part of percijaient himself and
some interesting results were obtained.
In conclusion, let us hope that M. Warcollier will be able to
continue his experiments and that others will be incited to follow
his example. Especially we may hope that his book will stimulate
interest in France, where in recent years the efforts of psychical
researchers have been mainly directed to the physical branch
of the subject. H. de G. S.
V.
Metapsychica Moderm. By Dr. W. Mackenzie (of Genoa).
The first thing I wish to say regarding Dr. W. Mackenzie's
book, is to express the wish that some capable translator will
speedily render it accessible to the English student who does
not possess knowledge of the Italian language.
July, 1923. Reviews. 127
The book, -^vhile it is inevitably to some extent a record and
repetition of mucli that has already been published (for Dr.
Mackenzie aims at giving the Italian reader a clear and very
complete record of the principal lines along which Psychical
Phenomena have been observed and investigated in recent years),
is far more than a mere record. While treating his fellow investi-
gators, past and present, with a courtesy and respect not always
a,ccorded in critical works, Dr. Mackenzie gives his readers, in
every branch of phenomena with which he deals, thoughtful and
interesting comments of his own.
He is remarkably just and unbiassed in his opinions and con-
veys the impression that neither scepticism nor its antithesis
have any undue part in his conclusions, with which the reader
may or may not be in agreement.
In dealing with dubious matter, such as psychic photography,
etc., Dr. Mackenzie contents himself with referring to those
recorded incidents which strike him as best authenticated and
therefore at least worthy of due consideration. He goes so
far as to say that a small number of records of such cases
strike him as being incontestibly reliable reports of genuine pheno-
mena.
The first half of his book deals at some length with the more
important cases of varied supernormal phenomena recently dis-
cussed and investigated. Thinking and calculating animals, such
as the Elberfeldt horses and Rolf, the Mannheim dog, whose
progeny, and notably his daughter Lola, have (if Miss Kinder-
mann's record of her pets' achievements is to be believed, and it
certainly has every appearance of care and sincerity) not only
equalled but exceeded their sire's prowess. And here Dr. Mackenzie
expresses himself as equally dissatisfied with the hypothesis that
attributes the performances of these animals to fraud on the
part of their trainers, with that which seeks for their explanation
solely in the animals' intelligence, and with that which would
explain the whole matter as resulting from a telepathic
lapport between beast and trainer. Dr. Mackenzie prefers—and
to my mind, correctly—the supposition that the explanation of
these animal phenomena may be found in a combination of
their own intelligence and a hitherto unsuspected and therefore
undeveloped capacity of the higher animals for acquiring tele-
jpathically from certain persons and under certain conditions.
128 Journal of Society /or Psychical Research, jult, 1923.
facts and statements which would be quite beyond their own
comprehension.
Dr. Mackenzie deals at some length with the apparent mathe-
matical faculty demonstrated by these trained animals, and
gives a record of the same faculty as observed in a human
subject, a lawyer of his acquaintance, when in the hypnotic
state, and purporting to be " controlled " by an invading "
spirit
"
Another section treats] of the experiments of Dr. von'' Schrenck-
Notzing, Mme. Bisson, Dr. Geley and Dr. Crawford, with those
mediums purporting to produce ectoplasm, and the latter half
of the volume is devoted to " Hypotheses and Comments," and deals
with all those explanations of various phenomena, commonly
forthcoming, as well as with the author's own speculations and
deductions.
Here again Dr. Mackenzie has kept the balance level and
while pointing out that the spiritistic hypothesis must always
be rejected until at any rate all other known explanations have
been exhausted, he gives it as full and just consideration as he
accords to more established solutions.
Space does not allow of more than the briefest survey, in this
Journal, of a work which is in every way worthy of' careful
perusal.
U. V. T.
COREECTION.
We have received from Dr. Schiller the following correction
of the case which was contributed by him to the Journal for
last May (Vol. XXL, p. 87 ff.). In a footnote printed at the
bottom of p. 89 it was stated that the message which is numbered
(3) was " received by Mrs. Tarrant on March 5, 1921 "
After
consulting the original documents of. the case, which are in his
possession. Dr. Schiller informs us that the message referred to
is said (in Mrs. Tarrant's letter to him) " to have '
come to-day '
and this letter to me is dated March 5, 1922, and postmarked
March 6, 1922."
We are indebted to Mr. Hubert Wales for calling our attention
to this discrepancy. It will be seen by reference to the report
of the case in the Journal for last May that the correction does
not materially affect Dr. Schiller's argument, or the interest of
the case.
No. CCCXCVIIL—Vol. XXI. October, 192S.
JOURNAL
OF THE .
Society for Psychical Research.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i,
On WEDNESDA Y, OCTOBER 2^th, 1923, at 3 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" A Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena
"
WILL BE READ BY
Mrs. SIDNEY LEANING.
N.r>.
—
No Tickets of Admissioti are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates ivill be admitted on signing their names at the door.
130 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1923.
CONCEKNING PART LXXXVIII. OF " PROCEEDINGS."
Part LXXXVIII. of Proceedings, dated July and circulated in
September, was delayed by a mistake on the part of the
printers.
CONCERNING THE PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
As announced in the Journal for July a limited number of
copies of the EngUsh translation of Monsieur Camille Flam-
marion's Presidential Address have been printed, and are now
ready. The price is Is. 6d. for Members and Associates, 2s.
for the pubhc. Members who wish to purchase one or more
copies are asked to apply to the Secretary, 31 Tavistock
Square, W.C.I.
RESPONSE TO THE APPEAL. SIXTH REPORT.
Expenses of Research.
Miss A. B. Balfour - - - - - £10 0 0
To BE Allocated as Council wishes.
Mrs. Hockliffe ------£220
Anonymous ------ 110
J. R. K. Duff ------ 110
Expenses of Printing.
Rev. A. T. Fryer - - - - - £10 0
ON SOME EVIDENCE OF PERSONAL IDENTITY
OBTAINED IN RECENT SITTINGS WITH
MRS. LEONARD.
[We have received from Miss M. Radclyffe-Hall the following
report of some incidents which have occurred at sittings held loith
Mrs. Leonard during this year. According to their usual habit
Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Una, Lady Troubridge, have tahen these
sittings joinily, and the 'pwyorting communicator is again A.V.B.
Oct., 1923. On Some Evidence of Personal Identity. 131
{see Proc. S.P.K. Vol. XXX., pp. 339-554). But on the occasions
described below the evidence obtained related not to A. V.B,
herself, but to another jjerson, referred to here as Mrs. X., and
showed Jcnoivledge of matters concerning which the sitters themselves
were in a large Pleasure ignorant.
The identity of Mrs. X. is known to the Society, and detailed
rejjorts of the sittings in question are in our 'possession.—Ed.]
It occurs to Una, Lady Troubridge, and myself, that the
following short resume of evidence received through Mrs.
Leonard, concerning a lady whom we call Mrs. X., may
be of interest to readers of the Journal. The interest lies in
the fact that Mrs. X. was almost a complete stranger to us,
and that we knew nothing to speak of about her private life
and incidents concerning it. We had lunched with Mrs. X.
on one occasion in London, and had met her once or twice
out walking at Hove ; as far as she is concerned that was the
extent of our acquaintance. One of her daughters is an intimate
friend of ours, her other daughter we barely know. Mrs. X.
has a son whom we do not know very well either.
Mrs. X. died during the late summer of 1922. Her daughters
were anxious to obtain communications through Mrs. Leonard
if possible. One daughter could not get an appointment, and
the other was sxiffering from shock owing to her mother's
death, and was not in a condition to take a sitting ; she
was however most anxious to get some tidings regarding
her mother, so that on January 24, 1923, I introduced the
subject at a sitting with Mrs. Leonard during an A.V.B.
control. I mentioned Mrs. X."s daughter by her Christian
name (I did not give the surname). A.V.B. had been
an old friend of Miss X., and has often mentioned her
at Leonard sittings by her Christian name. It may be as well
just here to state that the Miss X. in question had had one
sitting with Mrs. Leonard prior to her mother's death ; she
was accompanied to that sitting by Lady Troubridge and
myself. I conducted the sitting and Lady Troubridge took the
notes, and nothing of any kind was said regarding Mrs. X.,
the sitting being entirely concerned with the deceased Mr. X.
On January 24, 1923, I told the A.V.B. Control that some-
one connected with T. (Miss X.'s Christian name) had lately
passed over. A.V.B. replied that she knew that, and that the
a2
132 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1923.
person in question had not passed over in the last few days
but a little while ago. Mrs. A. had died al^out five months
prior to this sitting. A.V.B. did not volunteer any further
information on January 24, and the subject was dropped.
On March 14, 1923, the subject was introduced again by
Feda at the beginning of the sitting and without any sugges-
tion from us. A.V.B. was said to be speaking on behalf of a
communicator, who was apparently not present in person. A
number of things were said by Feda regarding the late Mrs. X.,
whose full surname was finally given quite clearly. On this
date some extremely good evidence was obtained—evidence
which left no doubt regarding identity, but for want of space
we only propose to give those points which cannot conceivably
have been known to us. The first point concerns a house,
and for the sake of brevity we will not give Feda's actual
words (of which of course an accurate record is held), but will
condense her remarks to what is essential.
Feda said that Mrs. X. was interested in a house that, while
being London, was not in the townified part of London, but
in a part where there would be a good deal of green and a
great many gardens. She said the house was near the river
in an old part, and again repeated " Gardens, gardens."'
We had no reason to suppose that Mrs. X. had been
interested in any such place, but her daughters were sent
question papers. The answer to the question with which we
are now dealing proved that Feda was correct. For many
years Mrs. X. had known intimately the owners of an old
house in Fulham, quite near Hurlingham. This house was one
of those large semi-estates that exist in that part of London.
It had extensive groimds sloping down to the river, and Mrs.
X. had at one time been a very constant visitor there.
Mrs. X.'s old friend to whom the house had belonged had
died quite recently at the time of this sitting ; it is suggested
by Mrs. X."s daughter, T., that her mother may have met her
old friend, and thus been reminded of the house at Fulham.
The next question submitted to Mrs. X.'s daughters con-
cerned a box in which it was said by Feda that the deceased
lady had kept her handkerchiefs. Feda said that according to
A.V.B. most people are particular about their handkerchiefs,
but that Mrs. X. was extraordinarily so. Mrs. X., she said,
Oct., 1923. On Some Evidence of Personal Identity. 133
kept her handkerchiefs in two places, one of which was a small
drawer. This first remark was accurate, but was considered
too usual to be of interest. Feda went on to say that Mrs.
X. also kept some handkerchiefs in a lined box. She laid
great stress on the word Lined, saying that A.y.B. had been
particularly told by Mrs. X. that the box had been lined and
that she was to call it "A lined one." Feda went on to say
that, according to A.V.B., Mrs. X. had mentioned that point
particularly, because so many people keep handkerchiefs in
cases and so on.
The answer to the question paper sent to Mrs. X.'s daughters
was to the effect that their mother kept some of her hand-
kerchiefs in a brocade-Uned box and others in a drawer. This
incident particularly struck T., as she told me verbally she
herself had given the box in question to her mother, who
had always used it for her handkerchiefs.
The third question which we put to the daughters was
intimately connected with Mrs. X.'s private business. Feda
said that not long before she died she burnt and destroyed
some things. Mrs. X. sent a message to the effect that she
was not sure that people knew this, but that she expected they
would miss one or two things, among which were some letters.
Feda proved to be right here on two counts. One of the
daughters was not certain that any papers had been burnt,
but believed they must have been, as many letters which she
knew had been in her mother's possession were missing after
her death. The other daughter T. had, unkno^\Ti to her sister,
been told by the late Mrs. X.'s maid, that shortly before her
death Mrs. X. had burnt a number of papers and letters.^
The next question, to which we could not obtain an answer
for some little time, concerned the behaviour of Mrs. X.
during her last illness. Feda said that not long before Mrs. X.
passed over she did something pecuhar, she would take her
feet from under the bedclothes and hang them dow^n over the
^It has since been discovered by one of Mrs. X.'s daughters (who has now made
an exhaustive search for papers belonging to her mother), that letters written to
her by both her daughters, which she had kept from the earliest times, are
missing, including those from her daughter T., when the latter was on active
service during the war. It is considered that the only explanation of this must
be, that iVIrs. X. destroj^ed these letters with the others, shortly before she died.
134 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1923.
side of the bed, and Feda again emphasised that this was not
long before death. This point was verified by the late Mrs. X."s
maid, who assured T. that Feda had been quite correct and
that Mrs. X. had persisted in taking her feet from under the
bedclothes and hanging them over the side of the bed during
lier last illness.
The next bit of evidence given through Feda is amusing
as well as evidential, and perhaps constitutes the best thing
in this sitting. Feda said that Mrs. X. had something pecuhar
that she wore on her head which she had been asked not to
wear. She said that A.V.B. said that she had not been asked
very seriously not to wear it, but had been asked jokingly to
put it away. She had however insisted on wearing this thing
on her head. A.V.B. says through Feda that the thing was
not serious in itself, but that it was important because Mrs. X.
had insisted so on wearing it. And just here Feda told me
that A.V.B. was not making her see anything, she was only
making her feel that there was something on her head ; she
added, that Mrs. X. was teased about this a little.
Mrs. X.'s daughter T. was able to verify this fully. She
stated that at one time her mother had had a switch of false
hair which she insisted on wearing. The hair did not match
her own, of which incidentally she had plenty, and her
daughter T. constantly urged her to discard the false hair, she
also teased her about it a great deal. However, Mrs. X. was
obdurate and would joke with the maid about the false hair
in front of T., saying that she knew Miss X. disliked her
wearing it, but that nevertheless she was to give it her as
she intended to put it on. This point regarding the hair was
verified by Mrs. X.'s other daughter as well as by T.
I wish to make it quite clear that at the time Lady
Troubridge and myself met Mrs. X., which was not very long
before she died, she was not wearing the false hair in question.
Nothing had ever been said to us regarding the false hair, the
first intimation that such a thing existed was given to us by
Feda during this sitting.
Nothing further in connection with Mrs. X. occurred until
April 7, 1923, on which date the old lady herself arrived
at the sitting with A.V.B. (according to Feda). Feda gave
Mrs. X.'s surname in full again.
Oct., 1923. On Some Evidence of Personal Identity. 135
Feda stated that someone whom Mrs. X. had known
fell out of a high window. She said that the letter D. was
connected with this person and that there had been a great
upset about the accident at the time.
Although the coimection of the letter D. has not been traced
this bit of evidence is interesting because, fortunately, we do
not all know people who meet with such a tragic end.
According to Mrs. X.'s daughters, Mrs. X. had a friend who
fell out of a high ^^^indow some time ago. The lady in question
was in London society, and the event caused a considerable
stir, being much discussed by people, including Mrs. X.
Feda next stated that she was being shown a piece of black
satin, that the commimicator was folding over the ends and
doubling it over, and then stitching on some gold trimming.
This is not a very important piece of evidence, as most old
ladies do some sort of needlework. It is worth mentioning,
however, because Mrs. X.'s daughters state that their mother
did a great deal of fancy sewing, making a great many such
things as bags and sachets, and that moreover she was a very
beautiful needlewoman.
Feda next spoke about some silver. She said that a little
while before Mrs. X. passed over she had been talking and
thinking aboiit packing some silver to send away somewhere
for a special purpose. Feda was careful to state that Mrs. X.
did not say it was a present, according to Feda it was " Not
like giving a present, more like sending it away for a purpose."
In this connection silver is not strictly correct, the allusion
must refer to gold plate. According to Mrs. X.'s daughters,
not long before her death their mother sent some silver gilt
plate to her son in the country. The plate was only lent to
him for a special occasion.
Feda next gave a message to the effect that Mrs. X.'s
daughter had been thinking about France and a journey quite
recently. We knew this, so it is not of much interest, and we
only mention it because Feda went on to say, that the daughter
had been thinking about France actually on the morning of
this sitting. That point we were unable to verify to our
complete satisfaction ; but the reference to France has its
importance, because Feda went on to say that according to
Mrs. X., the daughter was wondering whether her last shoes
136 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., i'J23.
would do or whether she would have to get others. Feda
said that shoes had been in the daughter's mind rather
specially.
As I have stated, we knew that Mrs. X.'s daughter was
going to France, and we also knew that she was going there
to fence. We did not know, however, that she had been
worried regarding her fencing shoes. When questioned, by us.
Miss X. stated, that about a week prior to this sitting she
had begun to think about getting new fencing shoes, and
had visited several bootmakers in her efforts to do so. The
shoes, she stated, had been very much on her mind, as they
are an important part of every fencing outfit. She eventually
ordered the shoes on April 12, 1923.
This completes the evidence regarding Mrs. X., that was
quite unknown to Lady Troubridge and myself at the time of
the sittings. A little more evidence was obtained on April 18,
1923, but has not been verified so far. It concerned a friend
of Mrs. X.'s youth, and is likely to be very difficult to trace,
the more so as Feda could not succeed in getting this friend's
name through clearly. From April 18 up to the moment of
writing, namely, August 29, 1923, no reference has been made
to Mrs. X. at any of our Leonard sittings.
(Signed) M. Radclyffe-Hall.
CASE.
Dream Memoky.
The following account of a dream has been sent to us by Miss
S. Boucher James, a member of the Society. As she points
out there is no evidence in it of telepathy or other super-
normal process. It is merely an instance of unusual working
of memory in dream. But as such it has an indirect interest
for us and bearing on our work. Miss James recorded the
dream in writing on December 2, 1922—three weeks after its
occurrence—and she has shown us the notes then made. The
account here given, sent on February 9, 1923, was based by
her on her original record with slight alterations made for the
sake of clearness, which do not affect the main points.
She writes :
—
On November 12 [1922] I dreamt I was standing with a friend on
Oct., 1923. Case. 137
a wharf and the vessel iu front of lis started on its voyage rising
about 200 ft. in the air. (Which of course did not surprise me.)
An appalling disaster followed, wreckage and three explosions in
the sky. After it was over I met another friend and proceeded
to describe the whole incident to her, but when it came to the
actual moment before the disaster there was a hiatus in my
memory. After an ineffectual effort to remember I missed that
part out and described what followed. I woke and was recalling
the dream, and when I got to the gap in my memory to my
surprise after a second's thought I was able, now I was awake,
to fill it in. The forgotten part was that the vessel had suddenly
turned completely over and I had said to my companion "'
She
has no business to do that—she's not an aeroplane."
So often on waking one cannot recall certain details, but to be
able to recall details which in one's dream one could not does
seem to me fantastical.
In answer to enquiries Miss Boucher James gave further
particulars, not previously recorded, which seem to show clearly
that her dream could be divided into two sections, in the
second of which she could not remember, and was aware of
not remembering, part of the first, though regarding it as a
real experience through which she had just passed. When she
awoke she could remember both sections definitely and appar-
ently completely.
It may be worth noting that on November 11, the night
b>efore the dream just described. Miss James had another dream
with a somew'hat similar memory experience in it, only in
this case the effort to recover the memory w'as successful.
She saj^s :
—
I threw my mind back as one does in real life to search for the
incident [very slightly referred to by a friend in the dream]. I
picked up the thread almost at once and all the unmentioned
details flashed back to me. The picked up incident was appar-
ently a pure dream memory.
Miss James says that "though quite an industrious dreamei
the memory detail in each " of these dreams was new to her.
138 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1923.
PROFESSOR RICHET S ADDRESS AT THE INTER-
NATIONAL CONGRESS OF PHYSIOLOGISTS.
At the International Congress of Physiologists held last July in
Edinburgh, Professor Charles Richet, Professor of Physiology
in the University of Paris, read a paper entitled " Les Voie»
non sensorielles de la Connaissance et la Methode Experimentale,"
Professor Sir Edward Schafer being in the chair.
The occasion is a notable one in the history of psychical
research and we give below some extracts from Prof. Richet's
paper, taken from a report which appeared in The Scotsman
of July 25, 1923 :—
Professor Richet said that although he appeared to discard
classic physiology he knew how to remain within its limits. What
indeed was classic physiology if it was not experiment ? . . . When
the immortal Harvey discovered the circulation of the blood by
incontrovertible experiments, he destroyed the classic physiology
of Galen, Hippocrates, and of Aristotle, and provoked for twenty-
five years the indignation of the professors. . . .
What he was going to expound to them was very revolutionary,,
and he would expose himself to vigorous and innumerable objec-
tions. . . . The proposition which he was there to defend and
prove by experimental method was this—that there were, for the
knowledge of reality, other channels than the sensory and normal,
channels. . . . He was not alone in his defence of this theory,
and it was above all among English men of learning that he
found his forerunners and defenders. . . . After reciting numerous
instances of unexplained cognition. Prof. Richet said he hoped
there would be no more doubt in their minds, in spite of the
novelty of his conclusions, that other ways were open to our-
consciousness than the normal ways of our senses. ... If he had
spoken of these matters in that solemn Congress, it was because
he considered them as pertaining to physiology. It was a new
chapter of physiology which he sought to introduce to their classic
science. He knew too well the wisdom of the physiologists to-
believe that they would refuse to admit it. They would forget
their theories and bow to the facts ; for the facts were there,,
many and inexorable. . . . When it was objected regarding these
precise experiments, these careful observations, that they were
contrary to the common perception, he felt he had the right to^
Oct., 1923. Addrcs-i at International Congress of Phijsiologists. 139
smile. These phenomena accorded marvellously with the astonish-
ing ideas which the new physics brought them. He could not
hear, standing in that room, any music. . . . But if they took
the receiver of a wireless telegraphic apparatus, everybody might
at once hear a concert which was proceeding miles away. It
sufficed to get a receiver to prove that there were such vibrations.
So with the mysterious ways of consciousness. They are there
although they have not yet reached us. It required a sensitive
to prove their reality. Here was a field open for their investiga-
tions. Certainly the difficulties were great, but since when did
they refuse to study a problem under the pretext that it was
difficult ? Above all they should not let themselves be prejudiced
by the credulity of the spiritists. He did not wish to say any Ul
of the spiritists, although they had been at times very hard on
him. They and he had principles quite different. He believed
onlv in science, experience and observation. They on the other
hand had theories ready made. . . . Assuredly, he did not deny
that their theories might be acceptable. . . . But before establish-
a theory, it was necessary to study the facts. This should be
their task. He would like to see physiologists, well-informed,
sceptical, cautious, take up the study of cryptesthesia.
CONCEKNING PROFESSOR RICHET'S "THIRTY YEARS
OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH."
[We have been asked by Sir William Barrett to jmnt in the
Journal the following correspondence between himself and Professor
Richet, as he ivishes to draw the attention of Members to the matters
there discussed.—'Ev.]
, ,
24:th August, 1923.
Dear Professor Richet,
May I take the liberty of pointing out a few inaccuracies,
which not unnaturally occur, in the wonderful and comprehensive
collection of facts contained in your great work Thirty Years of
Psychical Research. In citing the passages, the references in
brackets refer to the page in the English translation (E.) from
which I quote.
(1) On page 36 (33 E.) you state that " The Society for
Psychical Research was founded by the persevering efforts of E.
Gurney and F. W. H. Myers,'^ and on p. 40 (35 E.) you refer to
this again. Might I point out that the origin of the S.P.R. is.
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1923.
correctly stated in Human Personality, Vol. II., p. 224, where
Mr. F. W. H. Myers says :—" When, in 1882, Professor Barrett
consulted him [Rev. Stainton Moses] as to the possibility of
founding a new Society, he warmly welcomed the plan ; Edmund
€rurney and I were asked to join, etc." They did so, together
with Professor H. Sidgwick, who consented to act as the first
President. It was due to the able and active co-operation of these
three eminent men, and later of Mrs. H. Sidgwick, that the S.P.R.
achieved the respect and success it has won. The reason why it
seemed necessary to me to form a new Society,—to record and
carry on the work of psychical research,—is briefly stated on p. 55
of my little book on Psychical Research in the " Home University
Library."
(2) On page 582 and also on p. 752 (456 and 592 E.) you
state that the S.P.R. " started with the axiom and fundamental
principle that there were no material phenomena, that everything
was subjective, and rejected everything but telepathy." This is
not the case. If you will turn to Vol. I. of the Proc. S.P.R.,
p. 4, you will find that one of the original and fundamental
objects of the Society was to conduct " an enquiry into the various
physical phenomena commonly called spiritualistic." Moreover in
1886 {Proc. S.P.R., Vol. IV., p. 25) I read a paper on "on some
physical phenomena commonly called spiritualistic witnessed by
the author." It is true that both Professor and Mrs. Sidgwick
rejected these phenomena, although they had devoted many years
to the investigation of the subject; but like Mr. Myers and Mr.
Gurney they preserved an open mind. As to Mr. Podmore, he always
took the role of " devU's advocate," but the value of his opinion
may be judged from what you rightly term, p. 615 (482 E.) his
"insinuations against the honesty of Stainton Moses," and you
might also add against D. D. Home, of whom he made the
entirely untrue accusation {Journal S.P.R., Vol. XIII.) that Home
" selected his sitters with great care " with the object of choosing
only those who were most suggestible ! Mr. Myers and myself
carefully investigated the accusations made against D. D. Home
and found them baseless.
(3) On pp. 67, 107, 139 (58, 90 and 116 E.) you state that
the evidence for thought transference we obtained with the Misses
Creery is valueless and must not be taken into account as " fraud
was proved." This sweeping assertion is quite inaccurate; a
great and cruel injustice has been done to the Misses Creery by
Oct., 1923. Pwf. Richefs " Thirty Years' Psychical Research:' 141
the persistent slanders that all the experiments which we made
with these young ladies are worthless on account of their trickery.
On the contrary, these experiments were of the utmost value, they
led to the discovery of telepathy, and have never been exceeded
in their wonderful success. As you have unwittingly lent the
great weight of your name to discredit these experiments it is
necessary to trouble you with the facts of the case, which are as
follows :
After the discovery—for it was then an entirely new dis-
covery—of what I ventured to call '
thought transference '
in the
normal state, had been announced by me in the scientific journal
Nature for July 7th, 1881, I invited my friends Myers and Gurney,
and later Professor and Mrs. Sidgwick, to take part in the experi-
ments which I was conducting with the Misses Creery in Cheshire.
We were all naturally incredulous and gradually imposed more
and more stringent tests. After a prolonged series of experiments,
extending over many months, Professor Sidgwick's extreme scepti-
cism was overcome, and he stated in his Presidential address to
the S.P.R. {Proc. SP.R., Vol. II., p. 154) that those who suggest
that cheating took place by a simple code of signals quite " ignore
such cases as that given in Part I., pp. 22 and 23, where the
cards guessed by one of the Miss Creerys, were entirely unknown
to anyone but the four strangers who went to witness the experi-
ment, and where, therefore, as I before said, the investigators
must either have been idiots or one of them in the trick." That
this conclusion is obvious, anyone can see by referring to the
detailed record of our experiments in Vol. I. of the Proc. SP.R.
Tor two or three years the Misses Creery freely gave their time
to these experiments and cheerfully consented to all the tests we
imposed. At our request they travelled from their home in
Cheshire to London, Dublin and Cambridge, and interrupted their
educational studies in order to submit themselves to the repeated
and wearisome experiments which we made with them.
As is always the case the sensitiveness of the Creery's varied
and after some years their percipience waned, as the S.P.R.
Committee noted in their third report. It was under these adverse
circumstances, and against the wish and advice of their father
<see Journal S.P.R., Vol. III., p. 176), that the children went to
Cambridge to submit to some further experiments, which were
conducted by Gurney and the Sidgwicks. (Guiney's note on the
subject is in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. V., pp. 269, 270.) In
142 Jotirnal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., ]923.
some of these experiments one of the sisters was allowed to-
know the word or thing selected, and anxious to appear successful
they were found using a code of signals which was promptly
detected and acknowledged. In some of the very early experiments,
which the children thought was only a game, they told us they
had also sometimes signalled to each other. This, however, was-
quite impossible after the stringent tests later imposed, as can be
seen from the reports of the Committee in the Proc. S.P.R., Vol.
I., and from the lengthy MS. notes, taken at the time by Myers,
and which I still possess.
In Chapter V. of my little book on Psychical Research, the
proof sheets of which were read, and some revisions made by Mrs.
Sidgwick, the whole matter is I think fairly set forth. I have
never concealed my indignation at the way the Misses Creery
and their father, the Eev. M. M. Creery, M.A. (a clergyman,,
as our report states, of unbleinished reputation and integrity) have
been treated after the valuable help they generously and freely
gave to the S.P.R.
Pardon the length of this explanation which I am grateful to-
you for enabling me to make public, and which will, I hope,,
put an end to a widespread erroneous belief.
(4) Chapter IV. of yoiir great work is devoted to the so-called
divining rod, and you kindly and casually refer to my investiga-
tions on the subject, but I think you can hardly have read my
two lengthy Eeports, nor the conclusions reached after fifteen
years' laborious work. An excellent summary of these conclusions
was given by Mr. F. W. H. Myers in Htiman Personality, Vol. I.,
p. 480. As regards the motion of the dowsing rod, and the
probable explanation of the dowsing faculty, may I refer you to
my second Report, Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XV., pp. 276-314. It was
not Chevreul, as you state,—and as is commonly believed,—but
Father Kircher, S.J. (one of the founders of experimental science),
who in 1650,—two centuries earlier,—showed that the motion of
the rod was due to involuntary muscular action.
(5) In your reference to the Reichenbach phenomena, I think
you have overlooked the early work of the S.P.R. on the subject.
As chairman of the Committee on that subject, I made a
lengthy series of experiments with numerous subjects, and the
results are given in our report in the Proc. S.P.R., Vol. I., p. 230
et seq.
Oct., 1923. Pwf. Richefs " Thirty Years' Psychical Research." 143
(6) In your reference to Mrs. Travers Sinitli's experiments with
the Ouija board and the Hugh Lane case, p. 210 (171 E.) you
state " the case cannot be held to carry much weight as the
medium knew Sir Hugh Lane had left America some days before."
This is incorrect, neither the medium, nor anyone in Ireland,
Ivnew Sir Hugh Lane had left America, nor of course that he
was in the torpedoed Lusitania. Mrs. Travers-Smith begs me to
draw your attention to this correction, which you will find
corroborated in the reports of this case both she and I have
published.
Pray forgive this lengthy and unavoidably egotistic letter.
With highest esteem and cordial regards, believe me,—Yours
very sincerely, W. F. BARRETT.
Professor Richet's Reply.
Cher Professor Barrett,
Je vous remercie pour votre critique judicieuse et appro-
iondie de mon livre. Et je serais tres hereux si les editeurs du
Journal de la Psychical Society voulaient bien la publier integrale-
ment.
Croyez a mes sentiments de haute consideration et de cordiale
sympathie. CHARLES RICHET.
REVIEW.
The Controls of Stainton Moses. By A. W. Trethewy, B.A.
London. Hurst & Blackett.
Students of Psychical Research interested in the mediumship of
Stainton Moses are likely to turn to this book in the first instance
in order to satisfy their curiosity as to the identity claimed by
his principal controls, which has not hitherto been made public.
They will learn that " Imperator," the chief of the band, said
he was the prophet Malachi ; that Rector," the j^^^ii^cipal
amanuensis of the band, had been Hippolytus, a Christian bishop
of the third century, a.d. ;
" Doctor," Athenodorus, a Stoic philo-
sopher ;
" Prudens," Plotinus ; and so forth.
But though this revelation is interesting it does not constitute
the main value of the book, which lies in its usefulness as a
guide and help in the study of Stainton Moses's phenomena,
•especially as regards spirit identity. Stainton Moses is perhaps
the most remarkable private medium—combining as he did most
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1923.
startling physical phenomena with automatic writing of a hortatorj
and larofessedly instructive kind intermingled with evidential
matter—of whom we have fairly complete records. And though
the interpretation of his phenomena is difficult and, in my opinion
at least, the evidence taken all together is inconclusive, his case
will remain a classic one even when we have learnt more about
mediumship than we know now. Any light that can be thrown
on his case is therefore important.
Stainton Moses himself published some of the contents of his
note-books in his lifetime, and Myers included more in two long
articles published in the S.P.R. Proceedings, Vols. IX. and XI.
But much remains unpublished. The note-books are in the keeping
of the London Spiritualist Alliance, of which Stainton Moses was
president at the time of his death in 1892, and it appeared to
Mr. Trethewy that the time had come when these should be-
published in full with such annotations as might be required.
Having obtained the necessary consent he has prepared them
for publication accordingly, and publication is only delayed
because of the prohibitive present expense of printing and pro-
ducing so large a book.
The present volume embodies part of this editorial work and
is of value by itself. The bulk of it (as we are told in the
introduction) " Consists of evidential information relating to the
identity claimed by the communicating spirits." There is a
classified list of the principal ones (eighty-two in number) " with
a notice showing the part played by each, the evidence, if any,
furnished by him, and an appreciation of his claim " ; and " in
Chapter XIII. an attempt is made to consider all the cases as
a whole and to suggest some general conclusions." In an appendix:
a summary of all the automatic script extant is given, which
may serve as a full table of contents to the proposed book if
ultimately published, and in the meanwhile gives the student
the means of referring comparatively easily to what has already
been printed or to the typewritten copy of the note-books in
the library of the London Spiritualist Alliance.
The matter contained in the jjresent volume is not all new.
A good deal of the evidence for spirit identity has, as our readers
will remember, already been examined both by Stainton Moses
himself and by Myers. But Mr. Trethewy's work on it is more-
complete and thorough. He has taken considerable trouble tO'
Oct., 1923. Review. 145
make it as full and exact as possible, and we may recall as an
example that it was at his suggestion that enquiry was made
in America about newspaper notices of the death of Abraham
Florentine, one of the communicators, with the result printed in
our Journal for November, 1921. It appears that the information
given (by table tilting) at the sitting at which Abraham Florentine
communicated, about a month after his death, together with
Stainton Moses's impression that he had died of a painful illness,
exactly coincides with—is neither more nor less—than what was
contained in the obituary notice. The case must therefore be
classed with several others where strangers recently deceased gave
as evidence of identity just as much information (and no more)
as could have been derived from their obituary notices had these
fallen under the eye of Stainton Moses or had he or his controls
had access to them clairvoyantly. It is not, of course, necessary
to suppose any conscious perception.
In the case of persons longer dead and known to history, a
similar difficulty arises. The information given is sometimes fuller
than that in the recent cases, and is generally though not in-
variably correct. But it could have been derived from books,
and were this not so it would rarely of course be verifiable.
Some of Stainton Moses's controls claimed the power of reading
closed books (as in book tests) and it is undeniable that books
were on some occasions copied. In the case of historical person-
ages therefore we have not, and hardly could have, any guarantee
that books were not the source of the evidence offered respecting
their identity.
The method of cross-correspondence was not used by Stainton
Moses's controls. They did not profess to communicate through
other mediums, and indeed at one time refused Stainton Moses's
request that they should do so. The " Imperator," " Rector,"
etc., of e.g. Mrs. Piper did not give the earth names alleged
through Stainton Moses to be theirs, nor indeed give any evidence
of being the same persons as his controls, though they asserted
themselves to be so.
But with all that is unsatisfactory in the evidence for spirit
identity, we have on the other hand certainly one case, " Blanche
Abercrombie," where the death was announced to Stainton Moses
before it had appeared in any newspaper, and where the automatic
script announcing it was in a handwriting resembling that of
the deceased lady, who was almost a stranger to him.
146 Journal of Society for Psychical ReMwrch. Oct., 1923.
The above is of course a very inadequate description of the evi-
dence that has to be studied. The facts I have referred to as well as
others are much more fully examined by Mr. Trethewy, and I
should endorse almost all he says in his careful discussion, except
that he does not seem to me to allow enough for possible
operation of the subconscious mind unknown to, or unremembered
by, the normal consciousness. He apparently thinks that if there
were such subliminal action it would involve what he calls a plot
or drama—a scheme planned in detail beforehand and carried
out through months and years. I see no sufficient evidence of
such a planned sequence. The communications and events might
all, I think, have followed each other without having been
foreseen—initiated successively by association of ideas or external
suggestion. If Stainton Moses's subliminal mind was responsible
I should imagine that it was in a dream-like manner—dream
ideas and sleep-walking actions insinuating themselves not only in
deep trance, when the normal consciousness was in abeyance, but
in semi-trance conditions such that though there is no apparent
interruption to ordinary life, things may be done of which the
normal waking consciousness has no knowledge or at least no
memory. That Stainton Moses was liable to both these forms of
dissociation is certain (see S.P.R. Proceedings, Vol. IX., p. 340) ;
and it is, moreover, perhaps possible that there was in his case
an even deej^er division of personality, resembling that exhibited
in Miss Beauchamp's and other cases.
I dwell on subliminal possibilities because I agree with Mr.
Trethewy and with Myers, that Stainton Moses's character and
position, the testimony of friends and colleagues, and the circum-
stances attending his phenomena, make it imjJossible, or at any
rate almost impossible, to attribute to him habitual conscious
deception. The possibility of subliminal deception has, undoubtedly
however, its difficulties. For as Mr. Trethewy points out the
intelligences responsible for the automatic writing also claim to
have jjroduced the physical phenomena and these included, among
other apparently supernormal occurrences the introduction into
the seance room of objects not previously there, which if not
accomplished by occult means, must have involved preparation
beforehand. In trying to form an idea of what really happened
at these physical seances, allowance must be made for possibilities
of illusion of the senses and of memory in the observers ;
especially
as there is reason to doubt whether these possibilities were
Oct., 1923 Review. 147
adequately appreciated by Stainton Moses or the friends (Dr. and
Mrs. Speer) wtio habitually sat with him. But no illusion could
account for some of the things described
—
e.g., liquid scent
sprinkled on the sitters and not only affecting two senses—touch
and smell—but leaving visible stains on furniture, etc. Whether
things like this can be attributed to subliminal contrivance is the
question that has to be determined. It was some fifty years ago
that the events occurred, and naturally Stainton Moses and his friends
knew less about dissociation and subliminal action than we know
now, imperfect though our knowledge still is. If he had known
more he would I think have insisted on being searched before
sittings at which scent, or lights, or any kind of " apport " was
likely to occur. So far as I know he never did so, and it is perhaps
fortunate from one point of view that he did not, for had he
discovered that the required objects were, unknown to himself, in
his pockets or concealed about his person, the shock would
probably have, voluntarily or involuntarily, stopped the j^henomena
and we should have had no records to study.
My object in this review is to call attention to Mr. Trethewy's
book, not to discuss the whole complicated question afresh, and
I think I have said enough to show why I regard the Stainton
Moses phenomena as inconclusive and yet of great and permanent
importance to psychical research. It is unlikely that we shall get
further direct knowledge than has now been obtained concerning
this particular case, but indirect light may well be thrown on it
by investigation conducted with other mediums. In the meanwhile
as Mr. Trethewy says (p. 193) " no theory [about it] can be
proved true, and there are grave objections to all of them.'' If
with our present knowledge his conclusion is that the most
probable explanation is spirits, while I incline to doubt whether
in this case it is necessary to assume agency beyond the subliminal
mind, that is no reason why I should not congratulate him on
his book. It is undoubtedly a valuable piece of work and should
be in the hands of all who wish to study the phenomena in
question. Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
The Arkiv for Psykologi och Pedagogik for March 1923 has a review
by Dr. Alrutz on Dr. Tartaruga's recent book on the clairvoyant
medium Megalis, whilst the issue of De Tempel for May 13 contains
148 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1923.
the record of some experiments in thought transference by Dr.
J. Valckenier Suringar.
The June issue of the Journal of the American Society for Psychical
Research has a continuation of the record of certain sittings with
Mrs. Hershey, a note by Dr. Walter Prince on the controversy
concerning the Crewe circle and an outline of the proposed new
features to be added to the Society's work by the President^
the Rev. Frederick Edwards. The issue for July has a record by
Mr. Edwards of a sitting with Miss Cross for mental phenomena
and a translation of some remarks by Prof. Richet on " prag-
matic cryptesthesia," a term he prefers to psychometry. The August
number of the same journal has a discussion of the view that
" psychical " faculties are pathological. Dr. Prince in reviewing
the position contrasts the pathological with the abnormal, and
concludes that no satisfactory evidence exists that true " psychism
"
is in any way pathological.
PsycJiische Studien for May has an article by Prof. Zimmer
on the luminosity of living organisms and the possible employment
of the light produced in the seance room ; an account by Prof.
August Messer on some sittings with Willy Sch. in the Psycho-
logical Institute of the University of Munich, and a note by
Dr. Mirakel on the advisability of avoiding the much distrusted
" occult atmosjihere," so common in seances. The July number
of the same periodical has a paper on psychometry by Rudolf
Lambert ; an account of the alleged clairvoyance of Kurt Miinch
in West Saxony, and a note on modern materialisation phenomena
by Dr. Carl Bruck of Berlin.
The Revue Metapsychiqtie for May-June has the first of a series
of reports on the mediumship of Jean Guzik. The reality of the
phenomena is affirmed by a number of prominent persons resident
in Paris and by Sir Oliver Lodge of this country. The control
appears to have been severe, and we hope that detailed accounts
of the sittings will be forthcoming in subsequent issues of the
Revue.
Prof. Richet has an essay review of M. Simon's recently pub-
lished work Les tables tovrnantes de Jersey, and Dr. Geley contributes
an article on imperfect materialisations in which he compares the
appearance of unformed teleplasm of Eva C. with imperfect
moulds obtained with Kluski. E. J. D.
No. CCCXCIX.—Vol. XXI. Kovkmuku. l!)L':i.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research,
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C i,
On THURSDAY, DECEMBER i^th, 1923, a( 8.15 p.m.,
WHEN A REPORT ON
" The International Congress at Warsaw "
WILL BE READ BY
Mr. E. J. DINGWALL
(Who attended the Congress as the Society's Official Representative)
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admisston are issued for this Aleeti/ti^. Menders
and Associates ivill be admitted on sig7iing tlieir names at the door.
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1923.
NEW MEMBERS.
Bandon, The Countess of, 12 Queen's Gate, Ijondon, S.W. 7.
Bentiey, W. P., 42U Swiss Avenue, Dallas, Texas, U.S.A.
Carleton, Mrs. F. M., Westmeads, Butler's Marston, Kineton.
Creasy, Mrs. L., m Grloucester Terrace, Hyde Park, London,
W. 2.
Foster, Nevile, 134 Wigmore Street, Portman Square, London,
W. 1.
Gould, Miss Violet, 28 St. James's Road, Tunbridge Wells.
Hole, Rev. Donald, St. James' Lodge, Fulham Palace Road, Lon-
don, S.W. 6.
Horsfield, H., 108 Everton Road, Chorlfcon-on-Medlock, Manchester.
Lees, Norman D., Norton Hall, Norton-on-Tees, Co. Durham.
McCarthy, Justin Huntly, 19 Elm Park Mansions, Park Walk,
Chelsea, London, S.W. 10,
Oldfieid, Miss Florence, 21 Grimthorpe Street, Ash Road, Head-
iiigley, Leeds.
Pug-h, H. W., 38 Bedford Square, London, W.C. 1.
Smith, Harrison B., c/o The George Washington Life Insurance
Co., Charle.ston, W. Va., U.S.A.
Wills, Miss Mary Tappan, c/o Brown, Shipley & Co., 123 Pall
Mall, London, fS.W. 1.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL. • •
'
The 203rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C, on Wednesday, October 24th, 1923, at
4.30 p.m. ; the Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour in the chair.
There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William
Barrett, Captain E. N. Bennett, the Hon. Everard Feildin^,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington|
Miss M. Radclyffe-Hall, Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mr. Sydney
C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mr. W. Whately Smith, and
Dr. V. J. WooUey ; also Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary, and
Mr. E. J. Dingwall, Research Officer.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Fourteen new Members were elected. Their names and
addresses are given above.
Nov., 1923. Meeting of the Council. 151
The Monthly Accounts for July, August, and September,
1923, were presented and taken as read.
The plan for the seance room was approved, and the speci-
fication, for which the builders' estimates ranged from £496-£522
was accepted, subject to several small alterations which would
tend to reduce the estimates, and to a further enquiry on one
or two points with a view to effecting further economies.
The 77th Private Meeting for Members and Associates only
was held at 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, on Wednes-
day, October 24th, 1923, at 3 p.m. ; Sir Lawrence Jones in
the chair.
A paper was read by Mrs. Sidney Leaning on " A Study of
Hypnagogic Phenomena." Mrs. Leaning showed a number of
paintings of hypnagogic illusions sent to her by a percipient.
The paper aroused much interest and was followed by a
discussion.
A PLAN for the Seance Room has now been accepted by a
joint Meeting of the Research Committee and the House and
Finance Committee, and approved by the Council. The
PRIVATE MEETING.
THE NEW SEANCE ROOM.
WINDOW
WINDOW
SEANCE
ROOM
Tl
SMALL
OFFICE
17 FT.
original plan was to enlarge the small office at the back of
the hall, but it was found that this would necessitate several
152 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1923.
alterations in the existing structure, and would be as costly as
building a new room, and less convenient.
We give on page 151 a sketch of the plan that has been
accepted. The builders' estimates range from £496 to £522,
which is more than was anticipated. The additional expense
is mainly due to the heating and ventilating apparatus, which
—to meet the particular purpose of the room—must be
specially constructed to exclude all light.
It is hoped that the building operations will begin shortly^
and the room be ready for use by the end of the year.
In addition to the sum of £325 generously contributed by an
anonymous donor, several other members have kindly sent us
donations, and we have now available £355. It need scarcely
be said that further contributions will be very welcome.
THE SECOND INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
The Second International Congress of Psychical Research was
held in Warsaw this year from August 28th to September 3rd.
The arrangements had been made by the Polish National
Committee and were admirably carried out, a considerable
number of Polish representatives being present, all of whom
contributed a good deal to the satisfactory character of the
sessions. The meetings took place on the premises of the
University of Warsaw, and proceedings commenced by addresses
of welcome being presented on behalf of the Polish National
Committee, the University of Warsaw, the municipal authorities,
and various local scientific societies. Dr. WilUam Mackenzie of
Genoa was elected chairman of the Congress, and Mr. Carl
Vett, the International Secretary, read a brief report on what
had occurred since the meeting of the first Congress in 1921
at Copenhagen. The following is a list of the papers pre-
sented and the dates on which they were read :
August 30th. Reports in the French language
—
Dr. G. Geley (France) :
" Les experiences de demonstration de I'lnst. Met.
Inter, avec le medium Jean Guzik." . .
Nov., 1923. Second International Congress of Psychical Research . 153
Mr. Rene Sudre (France) :
" L'hypotliese spirits et I'experience."
Mme. J. BissoN (France) :
" Sur les experiences, faites a la Sorbonne en 1922
avec le medium Eva C." [Read by M. Sudre.]
Dr. G. Geley (France) :
" Les pbenomenes lumineux, observes a I'lnst. Met.
Int. avec le medium Erto."
Dr. William Mackenzie (Italy) :
" La consideration biologique et relativiste des pheno-
menes supranormaux."
Dr. H. I. F. W. Brugmans (Holland) :
" L'Etat passif d'un telepathe, controle par le pheno-
mene psychogalvanique " (with slides).
August 31st. Reports in the English language
—
Mr. E. J. Dingwall (Great Britain) :
" The present position of psychic photography " (with
slides).
Prof. Sidney Alrutz (Sweden)
:
" The psychology and physiology of the so-called
mediumistic trance."'
Prof. Haraldur Nielsson (Iceland) :
" Poltergeist phenomena in connection with a medium,
observed for a length of time, some of them in full
light."
Sir William Barrett (Great Britain) :
" The Luminosity of the magnetic field and of certain
human beings, asserted by Baron Reichenbach as per-
ceived by sensitives." [Read by Mr. Dingwall.]
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick (Great Britain) :
"Experimental Telepathy. The Need of further Ex-
periments." [Read by Mr. Dingwall.]
September 1st. Reports in the German language
—
Dr. Freih. a. von Schrenck-Notzing (Germany) :
" Zur Methodik der Versuche mit dem Medium Willy
Schneider."
Ing. Fritz Grunewald (Germany) :
" Telekinetische Einwirkungen auf eine in einem Glas-
kasten eingeschlossene Wage."
154 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1923.
Mr. Carl Vett (Denmark)
:
" Ueber Wege und Methoden der psychischen For-
schung."
Ing. Fritz Grunewald (Germany) :
" Die Materialisation der mediumistischen Energie unter
dem Einfluss des bewussten Willens."
September 3rd. Reports in Polish and in otber languages
admitted to the Congress
—
Ing. Pierre Lebiedzinski (Poland) :
" L'ideoplastie comme hypothese directrice des etudes
metapsychiques.
'
'
Dr. T. Sokolowski (Poland) :
" The development of mediumistic faculties in persons
not normally mediumistic." [In Polish.]
M. Prosper de Szmurlo (Poland)
:
" A study of psychical phenomena as seen in medium-
ship." [In Polish.]
M. Henry Grudzinski :
" Metagraphology." [In Polish.]
A number of propositions were also broached by various
delegates and fully discussed. They comprised the following :
(1) (Proposed by the Polish National Committee.) A pro-
position to form a small committee to enquire into the precise
limits of psychical research, and especially to establish
:
(a) The actual limits separating normal from supernormal
phenomena.
(6) The special nomenclature of supernormal phenomena
hitherto called " mediumistic," " metapsychic," or
" parapsychic."
(2) (Proposed by Dr. William Mackenzie.) A proposition
entitled :
" On the necessity of creating terms for the two
main divisions of supernormal phenomena, usually styled
mental (' psychiques ') and physical."
These two propositions were treated as one and a small com-
mittee was appointed consisting of M. P. Lebiedzinski, Baron
von Schrenck-Notzing and M. Sudre to deal with the matter.
(3) The third proposition was carried forward from the first
Congress and related to the proposal of Dr. Walter Prince
to compile a glossary of terms used in psychical research.
Nov., 1923. Second International Congress of Psychical Research. L55
Dr. Murphy of New York presented the proposal, and it was
agreed to have the details of the glossary discussed by a
committee selected from the various National Committees under
the chairmanship of Dr. Prince.
(4) The fourth proposal was linked to the third, and related
to a general classification of psychic phenomena proposed by
the Polish National Committee.
(5) The fifth proposal had already been before the first
Congress. It was brought by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing, and
related to the prohibition of pubhc exhibitions of psychic
phenomena. This appeared to be an extension of the previous
proposition, which related to hypnotic phenomena only. Dr.
Schrenck-Notzing was asked to formulate his ideas on the
methods of bringing about such action by the properly con-
stituted legal authorities.
(6) It was proposed by the Metapsychical Society of Cracow
to create an international bureau for establishing a complete
international bibliography of works on psychical research and
to keep such a bibliography fully up to date. After some
changes in the proposal, especially as regards the scope and
nature of the bibliography, it was agreed that the National
Committee should furnish periodical lists of publications to
some central authority, and that the list should be published
as a supplement to the Revue Metapsychiqtie.
(7, 8) The seventh and eighth propositions brought forward
respectively by the Psychophysical Society of Warsaw and by Mr.
Prosper Szmurlo of the same society dealt with (a) the intro-
duction of lectures dealing with psychical research into higher
centres of learning, and (6) the furnishing of prizes to inventors
of apparatus for the purpose of psychical investigations. These
were not accepted by the Congress, and were withdrawn after
some discussion.
After a number of minor resolutions were passed, full details
of which will be published in the forthcoming Report, the
Congress completed its work and the majority of the members
dispersed. Dr. Alrutz, Mr. E. J. Dingwall, Dr. Geley, and a
few others, however, remained, and a number of sittings were
secured with some Polish mediums. During the course of the
Congress, M. Ossowiecki, whose clairvoyant phenomena are now
156 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1923.
well known, succeeded in describing in some detail a part of
wtat Mr. Dingwall had written on a folded piece of paper
enclosed in three opaque envelopes which had been prepared in
England before leaving for Warsaw. The conditions under
which this was done appear to leave no reasonabh' doubt that
M. Ossowiecki has the faculty of obtaining information of this
sort other than through the normal channels of sense. The
case has several points of great interest, and a full report will
appear in the Official Report of the Congress. Further sittings
were held with Jan Guzik, whose phenomena have attracted a
good deal of attention in Paris recently, also with Stanislawa P.
and several others.
It was finally decided that the next International Congress
should be held, circumstances permitting, in Florence in 1926.
OFFICIAL REPORT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS AT WARSAW, 1923.
The official report of the Congress at Warsaw, containing all
communications made to the Congress, in full and in the
original languages (English, French and German), will be pub-
lished at the beginning of next year (1924) by the International
Secretariat.
This volume, printed in France, will consist of 350 pages and
will be sold to the pubhc at 22 francs.
Mr. Carl Vett, the General Secretary of the international
organisation, asks us to state that a special reduced price will
be allowed to Members of this Society. This price will be
4s. 6d. (postage extra) to all subscribers who send in their
order before December 1st, 1923.
In addition subscribers can have at the same price of
4s. 6d., that is, at a reduction of more than 100 per cent.,
the Report of the first Congress at Copenhagen.
The Council have agreed to give a guarantee of £25 towards
the expense of pubUcation. Members, therefore, who send in
their orders promptly will not only obtain an interesting
volume, but will relieve the Society of some financial liability.
Orders should be sent on the enclosed form to the Secretary,
S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
Nov., [1923. A Remarkable Premonitory Crystal Vision. 157
A REMARKABLE PREMONITORY CRYSTAL VLSION.
By Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Many valuable papers on the subject of crystal vision, some-
times premonitory, will be found in our Proceedings and
Journal. Our former President, Mr. Andrew Lang, was deeply
interested in this subject, and it was I believe the only branch
of psychical research he studied experimentally, through some
personal friends who were " scryers," or crystal gazers. The
power both of precognition and retrocognition is exhibited by
certain sensitives not only in crystal vision, but in deep
hypnotic trance and in dreams. We owe to Mrs. Henry
Sidgmck's laborious care a most valuable monograph on the
subject of Premonitions published in Vol. V. of our Proceedings
for 1888. One of the best evidential cases of premonition is
that of a fire in Munich in 1886 which was given with singular
correctness and precision in a dream repeated three times over
a month before the fire occurred.
Then there is the well-known case of the dream by Mr.
Williams in Cornwall, of the murder of Mr. Percival, the
Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1812. This dream, also thrice
repeated, occurred about a week before the event. Mrs.
Sidgwick regrets that the printed record of the dream which
she quotes is twenty years after the di'eam occurred. But in
the memoirs of one of the earliest psychical researchers, the
eleventh Duke of Somerset, on p. 335, an earlier record is
given of this dream. I have also lately received from my aged
friend. Miss Percival of Chobham (a direct descendant of the
Chancellor), a still earlier record of the same dream which
agrees in nearly all particulars with that given in the later reports.
The following remarkable and tragic case of premonitory
crystal vision is not only of very recent date, but some of the
witnesses have been mlling to give their personal testimony
and I am allowed to give the name of the percipient, who is
Miss St. John Montague, and she has kindly furnished me with
the following report of her vision and its fulfilment :
—
The incident which I am about to relate was written down as
I described it on April 14th, 1920, to the lady, as it came before
me in the crystal I was holding.
158 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1923.
I had run in to see a friend, Mrs. R., and as I entered her
house in Kensington she came out into the hall to meet me,
saying how glad she was I had come, as a friend of hers, whom
I will call " Mrs. Holt,'" had just arrived from abroad and had
asked her to beg me to read the crystal for her. As I was A^ery
pressed for time I suggested doing as she wished at a future
date, but my friend begged me to do it at once, ofiering to send
a servant round to my house, which was close by, to get my
crystal ball, and not liking to refuse I agreed to do as she asked.
A few minutes later, having been introduced to the lady, Mrs.
Holt, who had just arrived from the continent—and who was an
utter stranger to me,—I gave her my crystal to hold. When I
took it from her hands and looked into it I experienced a terrible
shock. Noticing from my manner that I was disconcerted Mrs.
Holt asked me if I saw anything to upset me. Fearing to look
any longer I told her I would prefer not to tell her what I saw.
She assured me that nothing I could say would worry her, and
she brought such pressure to bear that I gave way and told
her what I had seen so vividly in the crystal. I obtained her
permission to write it down after I had described it to her. I
warned her as delicately as I could that a gruesome tragedy was
before her, an awful deed which would make her a widow almost
immediately. When I had finished, to my surprise she laughed
merrily, telling me that it was all quite impossible, that her
husband had never been more cheery or in better health and
that he had no financial worries, and in fact she was just going
ofi to lunch with him at his club. Rather relieved at the way
in which she took what I had told her, I looked over the notes
I had written down shortly after describing the scene word for
word which I had witnessed in the crystal. The exact copy of
my notes is as follows :
—
" I can see a tall fair man rather bald, pacing up and
down a small room, evidently a smoking room, close beside
the desk is a telephone, he is excitedly taking up the receiver
and speaking into it, he opens a drawer in the desk and holds
an object taken from it in his right hand—it is a revolver—
again he speaks into the receiver excitedly and watches the
closed door on the left eagerly. Once more he speaks into
the receiver, and for a moment points the revolver in the
direction of the door—apparently listening for someone to
Nov., 1923. A Remarkable Premonitory Crystal Vision. 159
come—lie makes a gesture of angry despair, and for the third
time takes the receiver in his left hand, whilst his face,
working with frenzied emotion, seems to shout into the tele-
phone—he waits once more, pointing the revolver at the
door—he turns his face and seems to stare out of the
crystal, there is a tragedy of despair in his eyes. With a
sudden gesture he looks once more at the door and shakes
his head as though giving up hope of it opening to admit
someone for whom he seems to be waiting. He raises his
right hand and staggers back, the revolver is now pointing
at his own head—then I see blood everywhere gushing. A
woman comes into the room, the same woman who is in the
room with me now, only in the picture she wears a loose
wrapper, she lifts his head—blood is everywhere." ^
Three days later, on April 17th, 1920, the husband of my
friend, Mrs. R., a Swedish gentleman, came to my house with a
message, and in answer to my invitation to come in he told me
that he was on his way to see Mr. Holt who had telephoned for
him, explaining (as the name was not remembered by me) that
Mr. Holt was the husband of the lady for whom I had read the
crystal two or three days previously, on her arrival from abroad.
As he spoke a sudden presentiment came over me, and hardly
realising what I said I begged Mr. R. not to go. Amazed he
stared at me and asked me why he should not go and said that
Mr. Holt had phoned to him three times in a few moments asking
him to go at once to him, as "he wanted to take him with him,"
and he was just rushing out to go when his wife asked him to
leave a note for me on the way. Once more I begged him to
stay and not to go, and confided to him that I knew he would
endanger his life if he went. Mr. R. stared at me as though he
doubted my sanity, and in answer to my vehement entreaty first
to ring up his friend Mr. Holt, he went to my phone. There was
no answer, the Exchange said, from the number given. A moment
later Mr. R. hurried off, apparently irritated with me for having
delayed his going to his friend from a mere whim. After he left
I drove to an appointment in Harley Street with a well-known
1 Fortunately Miss Montague had not destroyed the rough notes she made
at the time. At my request she found them and brous^ht them to me.
These notes are now in my possession ; they are hastUy written in pencil,
but are word for word exactly as she has transcribed them in her narrative.
—W. F. B.
160 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Kov., i923-
woman doctor, Dr. Sloan Chesser. Soon after my arrival there I
was called to the telephone and when I took up the receiver a
voice spoke I hardly recognised as that of Mr. R., who knew
where I had gone.^ He told me that just as he entered the
hall of his friend, Mr. Holt, he had been startled at the sound of
a revolver shot coming from the direction of Mr. Holt's room. On
going into the house he had found Mr. Holt lying dead just as I
had seen him, beside the desk and the telephone receiver, with
a revolver held tightly in his hand. The horrified servant said
to Mr. R., " He had been waiting for you, Sir, and was phoning
for you to come a little while ago." If he had obeyed that
summons five minutes earlier, Mr. R. would probably also have
been shot and so have accompanied Mr. Holt. The Doctor's
opinion was that a sudden madness had seized Mr. Holt, and as
this came upon him he felt the craving to take a friend with him
on his journey to the unseen, and no doubt would have shot
Mr. R. and then himself. There was no reason and no motive
for Mr. Holt's tragic suicide, other than temporary insanity.
Some days after the tragic event the poor widow came to me
to thank me, she said, for having warned her of what was about
to happen ; but for that warning, though laughed at at the time,
she declared to me that the suddenness of the shock might have
impaired her reason.
(Signed) Nell St. John Montague.
In an interview with Miss Montague, she kindly arranged
for Mr. R. to come and see me. He did so a few days later
and corroborated the account Miss St. John Montague had
given me, and said that undoubtedly he owed his life to Miss
Montague's warning. After reading Miss St. John Montague's
account Mr. R. wrote the following letter in corroboration :
—
" I have read Miss St. John Montague's account of her crystal
vision of the tragedy of Mr. Holt. On April 17, 1920, when I
called on Miss Montague, I told her I was going to see Mr. Holt ; she
1 Miss Montague, in answer to my enquiry, informs me that she left word
with her maid that she was going to Dr. Sloan Chesser, and gave the tele-
phone number in case she was wanted, so that when Mr. R. rang her up the
maid gave Dr. S. Chesser's telephone number to Mr. R., who thereupon rang
up Miss Montague. I have seen Dr. Sloan Chesser, who is a well-known
and able lady doctor, and she confirms Miss Montague's statement about
being rung up when she was consulting Dr. Chesser. —W. F. B.
Nov., 1923. A Remarkable Premonitory Crystal Vision. 161
implored me not to go and kept me talking for nearly a quarter of
an hour. Then I left and drove to Mr. Holt's house. After ringing
his front door bell I heard the report of a pistol. A servant opened
the door, and when I came in he begged me to wait. A lady then
came to see me and asked me to go to her brother in the next
room. I did so, and he told me that Mr. Holt had just shot him-
self. I owe my life to Miss Montague's warning as I have explained
to Sir William Barrett. (Signed) I. Blomquisst R.
The following additional facts were told me by Mr. R.
There was an extension telephone from Mr. Holfs room and
Ms servant had to get on to the exchange. The servant said
Mr. Holt asked him to get on to Mr, E.. and to tell him that
he, Mr. Holt, wished to see him at once, as he wanted Mr. R,
to go with him. Mr. Holt then got on to Mr. R. 'himself and
said to Mr. R. over the 'phone, " Come here at once, as I
want you to go with me. Please come within the next five
minutes."
I asked Miss Montague if she could obtain the evidence of
the widow and of the servant at Mr. Holfs house. She replied,
" I am sorry to say that the widow feels the recent tragedy
so much that she does not wish to give her name, nor
does she wish to speak about the subject." Miss Montague
adds
—" I have been trying to trace the servant but so far
without success, as he has left his place."
There remains the newspaper report of the suicide and the
Coroner's inquest. This Miss Montague obtained for me through
the kindness of the editor of the Daily Graphic, who sent me
the following extract from the Daily Mail of Monday, April 19,
1920. Possibly a fuller report may be found in other con-
temporary newspapers which I have not been able to consult.
I omit the actual names in the report and substitute the
pseudonyms I have used. The report is headed :
—
London Hotel Drama.
" Hullo . . . death ! Come round in five minutes or it will be
too late."
Soon after shouting this message through the telephone on
Saturday at a private hotel, Palace Gate, Kensington, Mr. Holt,
a married man of 38, was found lying dead in his dressing room,
shot through the mouth, with a revolver in his right hand.
162 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1923.
According to his native servant, Mr. Holt had made the remark
quoted above in phoning for a friend, Mr. R. He then left the
call to his servant, who, when the friend answered, went to tell
his master, whom he found dead.
Mr. Holt had served in the army and seen much service in
France and was present in Dublin during the rebellion. He had
suffered from shell-shock."
The newspaper account difiiers somewhat and is incomplete,
but perhaps is not more so than newspaper reports generally.
One is jiaturally sceptical of such a tragic story. In this
case the premonition appears to have saved Mr. R.'s life, just
as the premonition in the case of the Munich fire enabled the
family to save some valuable papers which otherwise would
have been destroyed in the fire which was so vividly depicted
a month before it occurred.
When I read the foregoing paper at a meeting of the S.P.R.
on April 11, 1922, Miss Montague and Mr. R. kindly came at
my request and answered very fully and satisfactorily the
numerous questions asked by the members. In addition an
independent witness, a stranger to me, related another case of
crystal vision which Miss Montague had given him and which
proved to be correct.
Although the widow of Mr. Holt did not like to recall the
sad past, in response to my urgent request, she kindly called
on me and had an interview, at which Mr. Dingwall happened
to be present. The statement she made was taken down by
Mr. Dingwall at the time, August 28, 1922. Mrs. Holt said
that her husband had sat with Miss Montague for crystal
vision some six months before his death.^ Miss Montague then
told him what she had then seen, and begged him not to under-
take the business he was about to engage in, as she said it would
end in tragedy.^ Mrs. Holt herself sat with Miss Montague in
1920, and in a letter to me Mrs. H. says :
" When I asked
^ Miss Montague informs me that when she gave this sitting to Mr. Holt
she did not know his name and had no idea he was any relative of the
lady whom she saw six months later. —W. F. B.
^ It seems the business Mr. Holt was about to engage in was converting a
large house he had secured in Kensington into an hotel which turned out a
failure. This explains why Mr. Holt's house is called an hotel in the news-
paper report.—W. F. B.
Nov., 1923. A Remarkable Premonitory Crystal Vision. 163
her to read the crystal for me, she told me of things that
had happened to me years ago. Then she predicted I should
be a widow very shortly." In her inter\dew with Mr. Dingwall
and myself Mrs. Holt said she believed Miss Montague had told
her " that she would be a widow within two days " ; Mrs.
Holt added, " this was the case, though I do not remember now
what else she said." Mrs. Holt said she was fetched by Mr. E.
from Gloucester Road Station, London, after the tragedy.
She had previously arranged to meet her husband at Gloucester
Eoad Station as they were going to ^^sit their solicitor.
On arriving at the station she found Mr. R. there instead. He
gradually broke the sad news to her, and said her husband
had died suddenly. This was about 10.4.5 a.m. on Saturday,
April 17, Mrs. Holt said.
In the crystal vision Mrs. Holt told Mr. Dingwall and myself
that Miss Montague had also stated her first husband had
died suddenly, which she remarked was quite true, and that
she, Mrs. Holt, would have a very chequered life, which .was
also true. In her letter to me Mrs. Holt adds that " ]\Iiss
Montague also said that she saw things would clear up for me
after a couple of years, which I trust will be the case as I
have had such troubles and difficulties."
It will be seen that Mrs. Holt only partially confirms the
detailed prediction, which Miss Montague says she -wrote down
after she had the sitting with Mrs. Holt. But it is possible
the awful sequel had blurred Mrs. Holfs recollection. In any
case the prediction of the tragedy is fully confirmed.
This and other cases are illustrations of the existence of the
transcendental self which lies beneath our empirical or normal
self—of faculties which doubtless will have fuller exercise when
we are freed from the present " muddy vesture of decay."
The precognitions Ave have described bring before us the great
problems of Time and Space, and whether these are merely
names for illusions, due to the present limitations of our
personahty. J\Ir. Myers has eloquently discussed this question
in his great work on Human Personality. May we not. as
he suggests, be apprehending as a stream of sequence that
which is really an ocean of co-existence. We can imagine our
whole earth Ufe as an instantaneous though complex pheno-
164 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1923.
menon, any' element of which would be perceived as immediate
and present, by the transcendental self, —but which element
would only be received by the empirical self through obstructing
media, involving different rates of retardation. Just as the
highest of our senses (sight) perceives instantaneously a flash
of lightning, which a lower sense (hearing) only perceives later
on through the roar of thunder. So it is conceivable, Mr.
Myers suggests, that some occasional intercommunion of con-
sciousness may enable our higher self to call to the lower, the
central organism to inform the periphery that " at such an
hour this shock will reach you, listen to the nearing roar."
CASES.
I.
L. 1247. A Telepathic Dream.
A REPORT of the following case of a dream apparently of
telepathic origin reached us in the first instance through Mr,
E. P. Larken, a Member of the Society, to whom the dreamer
is known personally. On August [misdated October] 22, 1923,
Mr. Larken wrote to the Editor, Mrs. Salter, as follows :
About a year ago, Mrs. Wynn Roberts, a Wimereux resident, was
staying with her mother in England. One morning Mrs. Wynn
Roberts had a morning dream in which she thought that some
one had put sugar into her tea, which is a thing she detests.
She tasted the sugar and, whUe dreaming, she thought that it
was a curious and unusual thing to taste in a dream. Then she
woke up as the maid came in with her morning tea. With
the maid was her mother, Mrs. P., and Mrs. Wynn Roberts at once
asked her if she had ever tasted in a dream and told her the story.
Mrs. P. said " no " but that she had just been scolding Nellie
(the maid) for putting sugar into her (Mrs. P.'s) morning tea, which
she dislikes as much as Mrs. Wynn Roberts dislikes it.
Mrs. Wynn Roberts at my request wrote to her mother about
the matter the other day and the enclosed fragment of a postcard
bears the reply. E. P. LARKEN.
On receipt of this letter Mrs. Salter wrote to Mrs. Wynn
Nov., 1923. Cases. 165
Eoberts asking for an account of her experience and putting the
following questions :
(1) Do you often dream and can you remember any other
occasion on which you have dreamt of tasting anything ?
(2) Had anything happened to bring the idea of sugar in tea
to your mind at about the time of the dream ? Can you remem-
ber having any conversation with any one on this subject ?
(3) Have you had any other telepathic experiences either with
your mother or with any other people ?
(4) Can you give the date of your dream ?
In reply to this letter Mrs. Wynn Roberts wrote as follows :
August 27th, 1923.
In reply to your letter of enquiry about my dream which
showed telepathic communication with a contemporary incident.
I shall be pleased to give you the account as I remember it.
The incident took place a little under a year ago, while I
was on a visit to my mother. The dream itself having been
so unusually clear and sensible has remained in my mind as
an outstanding one ever since.
As most of my dreams come just before waking in the early
morning, I imagine that this must have occurred between the
hours of six and seven.
It appeared to me that I was drinking tea which had been
sweetened as I distinctly tasted the sugar in it. I have a par-
ticular dislike for sugar in that beverage and I was most bothered
with the unpleasantness of it.
My mother came into my room with the maid who was calling
me about 7-45, and being so impressed with the strangeness of
the taste sense having been so clear in my sleep, I asked my
mother whether she had ever known or heard of anyone having
had a similar experience. She remarked at once how curious
that this shoidd have happened as about an hour before (she is
always called very early) her maid, when preparing her tea, as
she had been in the habit of doing for a considerable time, had
absent-mindedly sugared it and she had been very much annoyed
with the girl for her carelessness. She has the same aversion
as myself to sweetened tea and will never drink it.
We both concluded that the whole thing had been a case of
telepathy, which in no way astonished us as we are quite accus-
166 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1923.
tomed to being in touch with one another, but as a rule she is
the person who is affected by me, such as in cases of my suffering
from intense depression or happiness, etc.
I hojje that I have explained this quite clearh^ Your other
questions I will answer in order :
—
(1) I dream frequently and vividly, but I do not remember
any other occasion on which I have ever tasted anythins in a
dream.
(2) No incident that I am aware of had occurred prior to this
particular dream which could have caused it, neither had I had
any conversation on this subject at any period which could have
recalled if to my mind.
(3) T have had a great many experiences of thought-transference,
both with my mother and other people ; sometimes acting as agent
and at others as the percipient.
(4) The date of the dream which you have been inquiring about
is a little under a year ago.
E. Wynn Roberts.
The confirmatory statement from Mrs. P. was on a postcard
addressed to Mrs. Wynn Roberts, as follows :
—
17, 8, 23.
Yes, I remember your dream and Nellie putting sugar in my
tea that morning quite well. I was reminded of it, curiously
enough, this morning before your letter arrived (2nd jjost) by
having jiut sugar in my own tea absent-mindedly at breakfast.
II.
L. 1248. An Instance of " Extended " Telepathy.
We are indebted for a report of the following case to Mr.
Hubert Wales, a Member of the Society, who has in the last
few years carried out a considerable number of psychical
experiments, some of which were published in Proceedings, Vol.
XXXI., p. 124. Mr. Wales gave an account of the circumstances
in which this incident occurred in a letter to Mrs. Sidgwick,
dated February 25, 1923, thus :—
In your very interesting paper in Proceedings (Vol. XXXIII.),
on coincidental hallucinations and dreams, you refer (on p. 331)
to " the extended idea of the operation of telepathy which is, I
Nov., 1923. Cases. 167
think, being forced upon us." When I read that, it struck me
that you might perhaps care to have enclosed particulars. . . .
To make the incident clear it is necessary to explain that for
some years I have been making experiments, as I could find
opportunities, to see if personal evidence of survival could be
obtained witJioi.it one's personal -presence at sittings. For this
purpose in the autumn of 1921, a friend of mine, Mrs. Donohoe,
of Hampstead, extremely kindly undertook a series of sittings on
my behalf with a professional medium, Mrs. Brittain, or rather
partly on my behalf and partly on her own. I did not meet
Mrs. Brittain or hold any communication with her, and did not
indeed know in what part of London was her house, when the
sittings were held. But at, or before, the first sitting Mrs.
Donohoe read to her part of a letter to herself (Mrs. D.) from me,
in which I said I was anxious to obtain communications, if
possible, from any deceased friends of mine. Mrs. Donohoe took
with her to every sitting a friend who wrote shorthand, who took
a verbatim note of what was said, of which a typed copy was
sent to me as soon as possible.
About twelve sittings were held, but no evidence for survival
worth reporting was obtained. Several incidents, however, occurred
suggestive of the extended, or linked, telepathy you mention. Of
these the enclosed was the most striking.
Hubert Wales.
The following report of the sitting together with the notes
and corroborative statement w^ere enclosed with Mr. Wales's
letter of February 25, 1923.
EXTEACT FROM RePORT OP SITTING WITH MrS. BrITTAIN,
2Qth October, 1921.
(Report received by H. W., 31st Oct., 1921.)
Present : Mrs. Donohoe and. Mile. Leclerc {who took the shorthand
notes).
Medium coming out of trance.
Medium : Do you know you have got such a funny spirit here
to-day. She gave me a shock. I don't know if she
is for you or for Mr. W^ales. She is a fat woman,
rather short and very stout, and has a rather '
nice
face with double chin, dark hair, rather nice com-
168 Journal of Society for Psychical Researcli. Nov., 1923.
plexion, looks very much like a Russian woman, very
fat. She is foreign ; she sjoeaks another language.
Mrs. D. : I knew a Frenchwoman a little answering that descrip-
tion, but, so far as I know, she is alive.
Medium : She is enormously fat, and is about your height and my
height. She met with a rather tragic death lately ;
she has not been very long in the Spirit World.
Mrs. D. : Do you get a name ?
Medium : I get the name Marie. She has got the beginnings of a
moustache.
Close of Sitting.
Extract from note on the Sitting hy H. W. addressed to Mrs.
Donohoe, sent to her 3lst October, 1921.
The remarks made by Mrs. Brittain as she came out of trance,
however, do suggest, in rather a disconcerting degree, knowledge
somehow derived from my mind. For it so happens that, during
the past week or more, I have been thinking much—quite excep-
tionally much—about a fat woman I used to know, whom I called
" Marie." That was not her real name, it was a name I gave
her, which she liked. She was not foreign, but she had a
foreign surname, and I probably thought of her as foreign
before I met her. In my recent thought about her (for the
purpose of imaginative writing) I have made her much fatter
than she really was
—" enormously fat "—I may have used those
very words—that was the whole point of my thought. So far as
I know, she is still living, but it is a good many years, since I
heard anything from or of her. She was about your height and
kind-hearted.
Corroborative Statement by Miss C. R., living at Nottingham at the
time, dated 18th November, 1921.
A day or two before the 26th of October, 1921, I received a
letter from Mr. Hubert Wales in which he told me a story about
an enormously fat woman, who was kind-hearted. At his request I
made a note of this on November 2, 1921.
Note by H. W. 25th Feb. 1923.
It will be noticed that, in Mrs. Brittain's description, " Marie
"
became stouter and stouter—as though she expanded on the spot.
That is precisely what she did in my imagination.
No. CCCC—Vol. XXI. Decembee, 1923
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
OBITUAEY: MR. OSCAR BROWNING.
We rea;ret to have to announce tlie death at Rome on October
6th, at the age of eighty-six, of one of our Honorary Associ-
ates, Mr. Oscar Browning. Mr. Browning contributed little
directly to the work of the Society, but in its early days he
used to lend his very convenient rooms in King's College,
Cambridge, for meetings of the Cambridge Branch. Mr.
Myers, Professor Sidgwick, and for some time Mr. G-urney,
as well as other well-known Members of the Society then
resided at Cambridge, which made the Cambridge Branch an
important centre of work ; and the geniaUty of Mr. Browning
as a host at its meetings made his position a prominent one.
It may be mentioned that he was one of those who had a
sitting with Mrs. Piper during her visit to Cambridge in 1889,
reported in Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 626.
RESPONSE TO THE APPEAL : SEVENTH REPORT.
The same anonymous donor who, as announced in the Journal
for July, had already contributed £325 towards the cost of
building a seance room, has now contributed a further £185,
170 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1923
bringing liis total contribution to £510. The thanks of the
Society are again due to him for his generous help. We
have also to report a generous gift of £100 from Sir Oliver
Lodge to the general funds of the Society. The amounts
received since our last hst was printed in October are as
follows :
For the Seance Room.
Anonymous - - - £185
J. A. Findlay - - - 20*
Dr. F. C. S. Schiller - - 10*
To BE ALLOCATED A,S THE COUNCIL WlSHES.
Sir Oliver Lodge - - £100
Mrs. A. M. Russell - - 1
A CASE OF THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
We are indebted to one of our Dutch Members, Dr. J. Valckenier
Suringar, for the report of the following case which he has
personally investigated. A spiritualistic circle of six persons
at Flushing (Holland) held a seance on the evening of the
23rd July, 1922. They did not usually get anything remarkable
at their seances, and on this occasion they first tried table-
tilting without success. They then tried the " cross," i.e. a
cross-shaped piece of wood ' with a needle at the point of inter-
section, held over the alphabet. The four arms of the cross
were held by two ladies (S. and M.) and two gentlemen
(S. and H.) ; it was about 9 p.m. ; this time has been
verified by Dr. Suringar. What they got seemed to be non-
sense, but after some time one of the gentlemen recognised
English words. The following dialogue then took place, the
questions, which were put in Dutch, being placed in round
brackets, and comments and explanations in square brackets.
* These amounts were included in the total of £.355 mentioned in the
November Journal (p. 152).
Dec, 1923. A Case of Thought-Transference. 171
Good b
Good by
(Wlio are you 1)
[no answer.]
(What are you coming to do ?)
I bill powr
it ea song for you [apparently meaning—I will write a song
for you].
(Are you an Englishman ?)
Yes
(How are yon ?)
tank u Howa R. e you [thank you, how are you ?].
(Would you be so kind as to spell that song for us ?)
yes
With t He vo
i W i LW
WITH c R
i s E [apparently voi = voice and '
crise ' represents 'cross,'
Dutch '
Kruis.']!
Evi i NG song [Eveningsong]
(Can you show yourself by means of a medium 1)
I cannot
(How did you come here 1)
is EEALig
Red [I see a red light]
(Could we, in darkness, observe that light ?)
ONLYFOR M (only for me.)
(Near whom do you see that red light ?)
[The cross was pressed against Mrs. M., who is regarded by the
circle as the medium]
The following words were then spelt out ;
they are repro-
duced exactly as they were recorded at the time, the spacing
Dr. Surhigar examined all the sitters, and the boy, in regard to their
knowledge of English by means of passages for translation in which words
from the original record were interspersed. The boy translated hruis (cross)
by crise.
172 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1923.
of the lines being governed by the size of the paper on which
the record was made :
THE SUN HAS
SET AND NOW
A new WITH F
A LL END E W
THE GEASS
IS WET Fir
St parT
each litt
le bird H
as Slink
stoxest
wit H
ts netstn
0 Sng is he
ar
Of the six members of the circle, the two gentlemen who
held the cross had learnt Enghsh ten and fourteen years before
respectively, but they had not kept it up, and had not recently
read any Enghsh book or newspaper. None of the other four
members knew any English, and the verse in question was
entirely unknown to the whole circle. With the aid of an
English dictionary, one of the gentlemen reconstructed a four-
Une poem out of it, neglecting altogether the rhymes.
The matter would have been allowed to rest there, had it
not been for what happened on the following day. Opposite
to the house where the seance took place (a grocer's shop
belonging to Mr. and Mrs. M.) is the house of a tailor, whose
son, aged fifteen, visits the M. family. He knew that there
were mysterious meetings now and then, but did not know
v/hat happened at them ; he longed to attend one of the
meetings, but was not allowed to. This boy, next day, came
to the shop and asked Mr. M. if there had been a seance last
evening, and the reply being in the affirmative, he asked if
they had had anything remarkable. Mr. M. answered : yes,
an Englishman who said he woidd sing a song, but spelt it
out with the cross. " What song was it ?
" asked the boy.
"Evening song of a little bird," was the reply. "Well," said
Dec, 1923. A Case of Thouglit-Transference. 173
the boy, " last evening I read such a song myself out of
a text-book used at a former school." He went home, typed
the song out from memory on a piece of paper and brought
it to Mr. M.
The poem, as typed by him, was as follows :
Evening Song.
The sun has set,
And now a new
With fallen dew
The grass is wet.
And little burd
is sing to rest
Within his nest.
No song is heard.
When Mr. S., one of the sitters, was shown the poem as
typed by the boy, he corrected '
hurd '
into '
bird '
and '
sing
'
into '
sutiks '
; on other occasions also he wrote '
sunks
'
(for '
sunk ').
Dr. Suringar, to whose notice the case had been brought,
entered into correspondence with the members of the circle
and the boy, in order to verify the facts. He obtained the
original record of the sitting, and the typed poem given by the
boy to Mr. M., and elicited the following additional details.
The boy standing in his room before the A¥indow (on the
first floor) looked at the persons who entered Mr. M.'s house
;
he felt vexed not to be able to attend the seance (which was
held on the ground floor). He was bored, went over to his
cupboard, rummaged amongst all sorts of things, and found
the remnants of an old school book, Huynink, Engelsche
Sfraahleer, of which there only remained a few pages. These
pages contained the five four-lined stanzas of an English
poem which he had formerly learnt at school.
The boy took the pages to the table, sat down and read
the poem on p. 44 of the book. He was all the time in a
doze. He began to look at the book about 9 o'clock, and
remained sitting until he heard the clock of the town hall
strike half past nine ;
shortly after that he rose and went
downstairs, and threw the remains of the book in the dust-bin.
174 Journal of Society for Psychical ResearcJt. Dec, 1923
Dr. Suringar learnt that the boy had also been in the habit
of dozing in school, and was informed by his schoolmaster
that his diligence left much to be desired.
Dr. Suringar obtained a copy of the Engelsche SjJraakleer and
found that the poem consisted of five four-lined stanzas^
printed on a separate page. The first two stanzas (repro-
duced at the seance) were printed thus :
Evening Song.
The sun has set,
And now anew
With fallen dew
The grass is wet.
Each little bird
Has sunk to rest
Within its nest.
No song is heard.
It will be observed that the points in which the version
written at the sitting, the version typed by the boy from
memory, and this same version as corrected by Mr. S., vary
from the original are different. This, as Dr. Suringar points
out, corroborates to some extent the opinion he had formed
on other grounds, that all the members of the circle and the
boy had acted bona fide and without any kind of collusion.
Dr. Suringar's comment on the episode is as follows :
—
In the whole literature on this subject I have not found a case
of thought-transference with as long a piece of thought material
as here transferred with an equal degree of correctness. It is a
spontaneous case with the thoughts transferred fully, and it took
place between two separate houses, neither the agent nor the
percipient giving themselves conscious trouble to perform any
thought-transference.
The conversation at the beginning makes it still more remark-
able, because the medium did not know any English.
How must we interpret this case 1 Ordinary transference of
thought through the air seems to me to be excluded because of
the strength of the case, and because of the English conversation
which was not in the boy's conscious thoughts. Equally impos-
sible is it, I think, to suppose that the medium read from her own
Dec, 1923. A Case of Thought-Transference. 175
house the poem in the boy's room, because Mrs. M. has never been
shown to possess that gift ; and in that case the quantity of what
was read would not exactly have corresponded with what the boy
knew by heart. So the only interpretation left seems to be the
withdrawal of the psychic substrate (subconsciousness) from the
body. The boy has some clairvoyant power ; he was that even-
ing in a mood fit for such a withdrawal, he knew Mrs. M., and
thereby had some psychic contact with her ; and he longed to
be in the seance room.
With this interpretation the English conversation, held by the
spirit of the boy before the poem came through, the medium not
knowing any English, is also explicable ;
so, too, the manner
in which the boy ruled the situation ;
e.g. when the poem was
on the point of coming through, questions were put which were
answered by the spirit of the boy ; meanwhile the spirit waited
with the poem and brought it forth as soon as there came a
favourable moment for it. After the first stanza he added '
first
part ' (this was not understood by the sitters), and when the
two couplets had been given, the spirit of the boy felt dis-
charged, he knew only two stanzas by heart—and retired ; the
boy awakened from his dozing, rose, and went downstairs.
We take it that what Dr. Suringar would suggest by this inter-
pretation is that the boy, being at the time in a state of
partial dissociation, played the part of a " communicator " at
the seance over the way. Some of our readers will call to
mind that one or two striking instances of veridical communi-
cation from living persons have occurred at sittings with Mrs.
Leonard, although—so far as we are aware—there has never
been anything in her phenomena quite on the lines of the
present case.
This case has been independently investigated, and reported
on, though in less detail, by Dr. VoUgrafi {Mededeelingen der
Studiever voor Psychical Research, 1923, No. 5).
As mentioned in the October Journal, the case is reported
and discussed at length by Dr. Suringar in De Tempel, with
reproductions of the original record, the typed stanzas (with
corrections by Mr. S.), the street, houses, etc.,^ and a brief
account of it appeared in the issue of Light of the 27th October.
^ This detailed report is in the Society's possession and can be seen by
. anyone who wishes to examine it.
176 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1923.
CASE.
L. 1249.
In tlie following case a telepatliic impression concerning a
playing card appears to have been received by a person who
was between sleeping and waking at the time. The incident
is slight but we put it on record here, as all evidence bearing
upon the question of the conditions under which telepathy
occujs may be of interest to the future student.
A first report of the incident was contained in a letter to
the Secretary, Miss Newton, dated April 10, 1923, from Miss
Nutter, an Associate of the Society, who appears to have been
one of the agents. Miss Newton then wrote for further par-
ticulars and in reply Miss Nutter sent the following report :
—
Miss Evans and I were sitting at the table, Monday evening
April 9, playing at " Scramble Patience."
Miss Skeat was dozing at the fire, slightly turned towards it, in
an armchair.
I put down 3 of clubs, and hurried to put down 4 of clubs on
it, but in the meantime Miss Evans had placed her own 4 of
clubs. At that moment Miss Skeat said, on waking, " Four of
clubs and three of clubs." I asked her what made her say that
and she said " I seemed to see them in my mind."
I am absolutely certain she did not see them on the table.
WooDEALL Spa,
April 12, 1923.
. M.M.E.
• H.GN.
(Signed) Helen G. Nutter.
Clara L. Skeat.
Mary M. Evans.
The above
Dec, 1923. Concerning M. Warcollier^s Experiments. 177
CONCERNING MONSIEUR WARCOLLIER^S SUGGESTED
EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
With regard to the " telepathic gamble " suggested in a
review of Monsieur Warcollier's La TeUpathie {Jour. S.P.Ii.,
July 1923, pp. 125-26) one of our Associates, Dr. F. J. M.
Stratton, who is a mathematician, has called attention to the
following difficulty :
—
It will be remembered that according to Monsieur Warcol-
lier's game the percipient has before him a complete pack of
fifty-two cards, from which he has to select thirteen cards to
be paired with the thirteen cards of the agent. Dr. Stratton
points out that by deUberately restricting his choice to any
four numbers the percipient can weight the scales in his
favour. This is a serious objection to the game, because
it means that players could not assume, as Monsieur Warcol-
lier suggests, that, whatever the percipient's choice of cards,
any advantage gained by him over the agent would be evi-
dence of thought-transference ; mathematical calculation would
be required to ascertain in any given instance just what
advantage chance would give the percipient. Nor can the
difficulty be solved by limiting the percipient's field to four
nimibers and deducting from his total of success the pro-
portion due under these conditions to chance. For this
arrangement involves " a limitation of choice which vitiates
any result or explanation in terms of telepathy. ... A funda-
mental difficulty in the game is that once you have guessed
any card four times you can't guess it again, even though it
remains as a card to be drawn."
It would therefore appear that what seemed at first sight
an attractive method of varying the monotony of telepathic
experiments will not serve, and we must look elsewhere for a
solution of this problem.
CORRESPONDENCE.
Concerning Dk. Alkutz's Hypnotic Experiments.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Dear Madam,—Volume XXXII., pp. 151-178, of the Proceedings
contains a paper by Dr. Sydney Alrutz, entitled Problems of
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1923.
Hypnotism, describing certain experiments which he thinks establish
the existence of a nervous '
effluence '
from the human body
which is cajDable of inducing or modifying hypnosis.
To establish the existence of such a factor it is of course
necessary to eliminate telepathic suggestion. Dr. Alrutz believes
he has done so, but upon this crucial point his report is hardly
as complete as its importance requires. The following criticisms
of his test experiments suggest themselves :
—
Sitting 20 (p. 156). In this experiment passes were made above
objects which were regarded as opaque to the effluence, the
position of which was unknown to Dr. Alrutz. Their position
was however known to Dr. von Bahr who seems to have been
present all the time.
Sitting 2,1 (p. 157). Prof. Svedberg chose the objects and the
direction of the passes himself. Dr. Alrutz being out of the room.
We are told " He [Prof. S.] had not expected any certain result
himself." This is hardly sufficient information as to his knowledge
of, and mental attitude toward, the theory. Further, Prof.
Svedberg appears to have reported what he had done to Dr.
Alrutz before the skin was examined. Who made the examination
is not clear.
Sitting 38. The result (no difference between the right and left
sides) was in accordance with the theory. It was also what
would happen if there were no effluence—and no particular
suggestion.
Sitting 44 (p. 158). Here Dr. Alrutz had no normal knowledge
of what had been done by Mr. Rosen; but may not the latter
have telepathically informed the subject of what he was doing?
If such a leakage took place and the subject knew what was
required of him the regular result would naturally follow.
Sitting 48 (1) (p. 158). That Mrs. A—z, who was present while
Mrs. E. L. conducted the experiment, was familiar with the
theory, is implied by the statement that she had absent-mindedly
expected another result. Two possibilities arise. The subject
may have learned telepathically what was being done, and Mrs.
A—z may have subconsciously conveyed the ordinary suggestion
as to the result.
Sitting 48 (2) (p. 158). Mrs. E. L. now experimented alone
;
but may she not by then have gathered what the theory was ?
Sitting 105 (9) (p. 159). Here an attempt was made to use an
Dec, 1923. Correspondence
.
179
'
opaque '
object the position of which was unknown, but no
account is given of the precautions taken to ensure that it was
unknown. Further, as there were only two possible positions
chance must be remembered here. On p. 164 an experiment
is mentioned in which the position of the '
opaque '
body is
said to have been unknown to both the experimenters. The
result was irregular. Alternative explanations are however given.
The only statistics of successes and failures (p. 165) are not
clear. They appear to refer to only 10 '
non-informed '
experi-
ments. The total number of the experiments which yielded 78%
of successes (p. 166) is not stated, and in view of the experiments
which are described the statement that telepathy was ruled out
does not inspire confidence. In 11 cases contra suggestions seem
to have been attemjDted. This raises the question—What happens
when one suggestion is given consciously and another from the
subconscious ?
Two other arguments are brought forward. On p. 167 it is
jDointed out that certain regular physiological reflexes can be pro-
duced in subjects who are ignorant of j^hysiology ; and on p. 173
certain reactions are stated to have been produced only by stimuli
applied by the hypnotist or someone in physical contact with
him. In the first case the knowledge of the operator might well
make up for the ignorance ,of the subject, and in the second
Dr. Alrutz does not seem to have ascertained what would happen
when neither experimenter knew whether physical contact did or
did not exist between them.
To devise experiments in which the direction of the passes,
and the position and shaj^e of the " opaque " bodies would, at
the time, be unknown to any of the experimenters should not
be difficult. Until the effluence theory is sujjported by a detailed
report of such experiments it cannot be regarded as established.
W. B. Leslie.
Dr. Aleutz's Reply.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Dear Madam,—In reply to Mr. Leslie's criticism of my paper
Problems of Hyjmotism, I wish, first of all, to point out that
the main thing was to find out if the phenomena existed, even
when every conceivable way of producing them by auto-suggestion
180 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1923.
on the subject's part had been eliminated. If they nevertheless
occurred and occurred regularly, the next problem was : did they
depend on the thoughts or, to put it on a broader footing, on the
knowledge of the hypnotizer or the experimenter (the maker of
the passes), who generally, however, were the same person 1
Finally, if this was not the case, were they brought about by the
mental activity of some assistant or any third person ? These
last two possibilities may be termed telepathic. I cannot use the
expression which Mr. Leslie employs, telepathic suggeetion, because
the telepathic stimulus, if such a cause there be, may very well
be conceived as stimulating the primary sensory or motor centres
of the brain, in which case there might ensue either a sensation
of warmth, etc., or only an alteration in the physiological ex-
citability of these brain centres. But in neither case need definite
ideas of any sort arise in the mind of the subject. If, however,
no such ideas are evoked by this telepathic means—as may be
the case—can we then talk about telepathic suggestion in a strict
sense of this word ? I think not.
I shall now as shortly as possible reply to Mr. Leslie's detailed
criticism, adding a few more experiments, and making here and
there some general remarks.
Sitting 20. Certainly these experiments only prove that the
hypnotizer-exiKrimenter needs have no knowledge of the nature and
position of the screens used. But that is already a good deal.
Sitting 37. Mr. Leslie considers the information that Prof.
Svedberg himself had not expected any certain result concerning
Exp. 371° too scanty. I may then add that at the beginning of
this sitting Prof. Svedberg had no knowledge of the effects which
my experiments brought about. The minutes of the first experi-
ment follow :
Seance 2,1. 22/10/191L At my house. Present : Prof.
Svedberg.
L After C. W. had first been put to sleep for half-an-hour
his sensibility was examined ; this was normal (for light
hypnosis) and right = left. A cloth was put over face.
2 and 3. Prof. S. was asked by me (in another room) to
make passes (the procedure of which I also showed to him)
above the brass screen either on the right or on the left and
either upwards or downwards. Then S. came out to me and
told me he had done as he had been told. I then asked him
Dec, 1923. Coirespondence. 181
to test the sensibility witli my algesimeter (2 gm.), first ten
times on the side that had been operated on and then ten
times on the other side and to observe the results. He was
to do the same thing with the temperators (means for apply-
ing a stimulus of cold).
4. S. did this and then told me that the arm and hand
that had been operated on, i.e. which had been exposed to
descending passes, had become insensible, while the other side
was clearly hyper-sensitive. This was then verified by me as
well. S. also found the same result when examining with
cotton-wool (ticHing).
The result was thus regular. In Exp. 10 of this sitting, which
is the experiment criticized by llr. Leslie, Mr. Svedberg may well
have begun to put two and two together. StLU, when a person
of J\lr. Svedberg's scientific standing states that he expected no
definite result when making an experiment in a way chosen freely
by himseH, there seems no very good reason to disbelieve him.
Prof. Svedberg did certainly 7iot report to me what he had done
before he made the examination of the skin. Finally, it is quite
clear by whom the examination was made. By Mr. Svedberg
first, and then by myself. The translator has unfortunately turned
the words of the minutes, " as / foimd afterwards," into the
neutral form, "as it proved later on."
Sitting 38. This negative experiment has certainly more im-
portance than J\Ir. Leslie thinks. It shows that the subject does
not suggest to himself some alteration, simply because passes are
made—whether he feels or knows that such movements are being
made or not. Further, this being the first experiment she made.
Sister L. would naturally expect something to occur. But in fact
nothing did occur, which was the correct result.
Sitting 44. Mr. Leslie supposes here that Mr. Rosen may have
telepathicaUy informed the subject of what he was doing, and
consequently that the subject then suggested to himself two
different alterations in his sensibility in the " right " places '. I
only wish to say here that there exists no evidence that anybody
but the hypnotizer can in any way influence this subject tele-
pathicaUy. On the other hand, the subject has spontaneously
informed me that he feels my thoughts sometimes.
Sitting 48^. The same reasoning as above can be applied to
this experiment as well as to Sitting 48-. Mr. Leslie asks here
182 Journal of Society for Psychical Refiearch.. Dec, 1923.
if Mrs. L. may not have gathered by then what the theory was.
I doubt it, seeing that the only preceding experiment (48^) was a
negative one.
Sitting 105^. Here the zinc-box with a lid on and half of its
bottom-surface filled with an opaque substance (paraffin) was used.
The precautions taken were that Dr. Klapper twisted the box
round, so as not to know himself where the paraffin was situated.
I did not take any " precautions " against him, Dr. Klapper being
a German neurologist who visited me in order to obtain a personal
opinion of the nature of my experiments, and whom I had no
reason not to trust when lie told me that he did not know the
position of the paraffin. Mr. Leslie writes that chance must be
remembered here, as there were only two possible positions. If
Mr. Leslie means by this that there was a .50 per cent, chance
for and against right results, I cannot agree with him. Mr. Leslie
seems to think that I said to my subject something of this kind :
" Now, look here, I am going to make an experiment with that
zinc-box, filled half-way, and I shall let the boundary line run
here ; then you are to tell me which half-part of the skin-surface,
lying beneath the box, gets sensitive." In point of fact, the
subject did not know either that we were going to make an
experiment on his sensibility at all (the foregoing experiments
having been made on motility), neither, consequently, that we
were going to use a zinc-box, nor that it would be a combined
experiment with a boundary line somewhere. I doubt even
whether the subject knew of the existence of this box, as we
always, as much as possible, kept him in ignorance of our arrange-
ments. Of course, when I began the examination of the skin
which was insensible he might understand, if he heard my move-
ments, that I expected some kind of alteration somewhere, but that
would be all. Consequently, the probability of success by chance-
guessing cannot be estimated. Other experiments with this box
have, of course, also been made, with " right " results. But
sometimes no differentiated effect could be obtained—the subject
being so suscej)tible that an alteration (irradiation) in the ivhole of
one half of the body took place on account of the passes
made. In such cases the waking condition is to be preferred.
This makes me point out how incredible it is that telepathy is
the right explanation, seeing that regular results can be obtained
on persons in the waking condition who never have been hypnotized
by me.
Dec, 1923. Correspondence. 183
As to statistics, I wrote in my article that space did not permit
me to give more than extracts. On p. 165 I gave statistics for
a certain class of phenomena, i.e. descending passes in light
hypnosis, and I wrote "... ten were ^ made with the non-in-
formed" method." Why does Mr. Leslie then write " they {i.e. the
statistics) appear ^ to refer . . .
" ? The statistics on p. 166 refer,
on the other hand, to non-informed experiments belonging to all
classes of phenomena, and the 78 per cent, of regular results is
based on the results of thirty-seven experiments. Further, I wrote
in my article (p. 166) that these experiments were made under
conditions unknown to tlie experimenter ^
—I said nothing about
possible assistants. I also wrote " there even telepathy must be
considered ruled out of the question." I judged it to be well
proved that telepathy was not the vera causa of the phenomena,
as they took place, and were quite as regular, not only when the
hypnotizer-experimenter was ignorant of the nature of the experi-
ment, others present knowing it however, but also when the
experimenter had no idea of the expected results, and no one else
was present, and, finally also, in some cases, when nobody knew
how the screens were arranged. I did not, however, write that
telepathy was ruled out—as Mr. Leslie says I did—but only that
it must be thought to be ruled out. I therefore cannot believe
that I have made any statement which " does not inspire con-
fidence," as Mr. Leslie expresses it. JSTaturally, however, as many
experiments of the zinc-box type as possible should be made.
Why does Mr. Leslie write that in eleven cases contra sug-
gestions seem ^ to have been attempted when I expressly stated
that eleven such experiments were ^ carried out ? The validity of
the experiments alone can be disputed, not their existence or their
formal nature. They were made in such a manner that the
experimenter wished or had the intention that a result should
ensue of an opposite kin^ to the one which the passes he then
made usually give. And in all the eleven experiments the passes
gave, nevertheless, their usual eii'ect. I have also made experi-
ments in which the subject has tried to prevent the usual effect
of the passes from taking place, but the only result was that the
usual effect was somewhat retarded. Mr. Leslie asks " What
happens when one suggestion is given consciously and another
from the subconscious 1
" Well, I should very much like to
^ Italics by me now.
184 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1923.
know. I have really tried to answer the question experimentally
myself, but I am not yet quite prepared to give any opinion on
it. I have also tried to suggest to one of my subjects to see a
given spectrum brighter, to see farther out in the red, to see
brown there, but this had no effect. All these alterations of the
spectrum and others also were however obtained if I made upward
passes above the arm of the same side as the eye with which the
svibject regarded the spectrum, or downward passes on the opposite
side (see my paper, pp. 163-4).
As to motor phenomena, I have certainly obtained responses,
and the right ones too, even when the experimenter has been a
person who did not believe in my experiments. If, however, this
has also been done when I was absent, or by persons ignorant of
what might happen, I cannot state without a good deal of search-
ing in my records. In regard to the ,
experiment mentioned on
p. 173 of my paper, Mr. Leslie's proposal might and ought to be
accepted. StUl the tremendous complications, which a telepathic
explanation would involve here, make the possibility of such an
explanation being the right one extremely small.
The main thing now seems to be to try and make competent
jDersons repeat and test the validity of my results and theories.
To debase means which w^ould realize this wish seems to me quite
as important as to devise new forms of experiments. Neverthe-
less, I readily agree that any good variation of methods, however
satisfactory in themselves, ought to be tried. Variation gives
added safety and may bring about increased knowledge of the
phenomena. Sydney Aleutz.
REVIEW.
My Coninionplace Boole. By J. T. Hackett. Fourth Edition,
Revised and Enlarged. Macmillans. 12s. 6d. net.
We are not surprised to learn that Mr. Hackett's book, which
has already been noticed in the Jovrnal, has now reached a fourth
edition. Mr. Hackett was an intimate friend of Richard Hodgson,
to whose memory the book is dedicated. Of the notable passages
of literature contained in it about one-third were collected by
Hodgson himself. They cover a very wide field, and, as is natural
in any work in which Hodgson played .so large part, the lighter
side of life is by no means neglected.
The author has appended to several of his quotations his own
illuminating comments. Of particular interest to our readers will
be the long note (pp. 170-184) on the unconscious, or as he prefers
to term it the " superconscious " self.
Mr. Hackett in many passages pays a warm tribute to the work
of the S.P.R., of which he has long been a member, but he is
not afraid to break a lance on occasion with William James,
Prof. M'Dougall and Prof. Gilbert Murray. It is a most stimu-
lating book, and we confidently expect that the present edition
will prove as great a success as its predecessors. W. H. S.
No. CCCCI.—Vol. XXI. " .January, 1924.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A CONVERSAZIONE
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i,
On THURSDAY, FEBRUARY x^th, 1924, at 4 Aw.
It is hoped that the New Seance Room will be on view.
{free to Members and Associates) will be provided between 4. and
J p.m. It is requested that all Members and Associates who
intend to be present ivill inform the Secretary beforehand, so that
she may arrange about the tea. Members and Associates who wish
to bring a friend are asked to apply to the Secretary for a ticket not
later thaii Febi'uary -jth, 1924. Visitors will be admitted on pro-
duction of such a ticket. Members and Associates tvill be admitted on
signing their names at the door.
186 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., i924
NEW MEMBERS.
Appleby, J. Stanley, Elton IManor, Stockton-on-Tees.
Beddard, Miss Margaret, 8 Fourth Avenue, Hove.
Bousfield, W. R., K.C., F.R.S., St. Swithins, Northwood, Middle-
sex.
Corry, Mrs. Armar, 12 Cranley Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Hanbury, Daniel, Castle Malwood, Lyndluust, Hants.
Jenkins, Mrs. N. S., 12 Battle Road, Princetown, N.J., U.S.A.
Kellog-g, F. R., 120 Broadway, New York City, U.S.A.
Moreau, G., 241 Rue de Noyer, Brussels, Belgium.
Strong, Rev. Charles, D,D., Concord, Bamato Grove, Armadale,
Melbourne, Australia.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 204tli Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Thursday, December 6th, 1923, at
3 p.m. ; Sir Lawrence Jones in the chair. There were also
present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Dr. William Brown, the Hon.
Everard Feilding, Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Miss
M. Radclyffe-Hall, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ; also Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary, and Mr. E. J. Dingwall, Research Officer.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Nine new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
A statement on the Price-Hope case, w'hich the Editor had
received from Mr. Drayton Thomas for the Journal, was read.
The Council, while not agreeing with Mr. Thomas's conclusions,
sanctioned the printing of the statement -with a reply which
they instructed the Editor and the Research Committee jointly
to draw up on their behalf.
The Monthly Accounts for October and November were
presented and taken as read.
PRIVATE MEETING.
The 78th Private Meeting for Members and Associates was
held at 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1., on Thursday,
Jan., 1924. Private Meeting. 187
December 13th, 1923, at 8.15 p.m. ; Dr. V. J. Woolley in
the chair.
A Eeport on The International Congress at Warsaw " was
lead by Mr. E. J. Dingwall.
WARSAW CONGRESS.
The Report of the Congress which appeared in the Journal
for November o^^ing to a misunderstanding omitted to mention
that the paper submitted by Prof. K. Oesterreich, entitled
•'The philosophical significance of mediumistic phenomena" was
read by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing, Prof. .Oesterreich himself
Leing unavoidably absent.
CASE.
L. 1250.
W^E have received through one of our American Associates,
Mr. Frederick G. Bromberg, of Mobile, Alabama, the following
report of what appears to be a telepathic impression received
within a short time of the death of the person to whom the
p)ercipient"s impression related. The first account of the case
reached us in a letter from Mr. Bromberg addressed to the
Hon. Editor, Mrs. Salter, as follows :
June 21, 1923.
The enclosed is the original letter by Mrs. Daisy M. Wilkie
•of this City narrating one of those not infrequent cases of appar-
-ent telepathic influence exercised by a dying person during hours
of physical dissolution upon distant intimate friends.
The interval between Winston-Salem, X.C., and Mobile, Alabama,
<?overs several hundred miles.
I know the writer personally very -uell, and can assure you that
her statements and that of her son can be accepted with perfect
confidence in the integrity of the writers.
The occurrence transpired in the same building within which I
reside, and was communicated to me the next day by Mrs.
Wilkie. I asked her to commit to writing her statement of facts,
Avith which request she complied after a few days of delay.
I told her that I intended to send her communication to you
for publication in the Journal of our Society.
FeEDERICK G. BEOitBERG.
a2
188 Journal of Society for Psychical ResearcJi. Jan., 1924.
With Mr. Bromberg"s letter was enclosed the following
statement from Mrs. Wilkie and a corroborative statement hj
her son : .
June 14, 1923.
On the eve of the 3rd of May (I"m not quite certain of the
date as the paper I had with the notice is mislaid), my son and
I were speaking of my girlhood days, without any reason for sO'
doing. I began to tell him of a certain Mr. Rich'd. Plenge, of
Charleston, S.C., who was a fine Baritone Singer, and quite an
admirer of mine. I had not thought of this gentleman for some
time. Try as I may that eve., I could not keep him out of the
conversation no matter what other subject was introduced, I found
myself going back to him and his lovely singing. I said to my
son several times " I can imagine I hear him now singing '
Love's
Sorrow ' " (his favorite Ballad in those days). We spoke of him
incessantly from 8 till after 11 p.m.
Two days later I rec"d a Charleston paper with the marked
paragraph, containing the announcement of his death in Winston-
Salem, N.C., at 2 a.m., 3 hours after our eve. spent in talking
of him.
He died after an illness of 4 or 5 wks., but was dying, his.
brother. Dr. Henry Plenge, informed me thro, my mother, from
8 f.m.. of the same eve. I could not keep him from my mind.
My son remarked when I showed him the paper
—" Well it
certainly makes me feel peculiar, almost as if he was somewhere
near us all the time."
These facts are true and positively happened.
(Mrs.) D. M. Wilkie.
This statement is true and I am " son " mentioned.
C4. B. Wilkie.
In reply to these communications Mrs. Salter wrote to ask
whether it was possible to obtain a copy of the Charleston
paper giving the date of Mr. Plenge's death. ' This Mr. Bromberg
endeavoured to do, but subsequently he wrote again to Mrs.
Baiter, as follows :
IS^ovcmher 2, 1923.
''Daisy M. Wilhe."
Referring to my letter of the 16th of August, written by me
in reply to your letter of the 30th of July, I have this report to-
Jan., 1924 Case. 189
make, having just this day been supplied with the data by Mrs.
Daisy M. Wilkie. I have seen the original letter written by Mrs.
Blanche Clacius Harris to my informant, her cousin, Mrs. Daisy
M. Wilkie. I had the original in my hands and am satisfied that
it is the original, and in part confirmation of that fact I am
sending you the original envelope in which the letter came to
Mrs. Wilkie, and copy that portion of the letter of Mrs. Harris
svhich refers to the death of Richard Plenge. The remainder of
the letter related entirely to private fairdly matters.
That the News and Courier newspaper does not have a spate
copy of this paper for the month of May is simply consistent
with the practice in this country. I have had occasion to ask
for copies of the Mobile Register, which is a paper over one hun-
dred years old, in this City, for some date, only a few months
back, and have been informed that they have none except that
which belongs to the permanent file of the newspaper.
I hope this letter may be considered satisfactory. To me it
is the best secondary proof obtainable, short of getting somebody
to go to the office of the News and Courier and copying from their
bound file under oath. I do not believe the case would warrant
the expense of that when the secondary evidence ought to be
considered satisfactory in a case which depends more upon moral
character than any financial element.
Frederick G. Bromberc;.
With Mr. Bromberg's letter was enclosed the following letter
from Mrs. Harris addressed to Mrs. W^ilkie :
Charleston, S.C,
Oct. 30, —2.3.
Dear Daisy :
Your card reed, a few days ago, and I phoned to Dr.
Plenge's house, and was told that his brother died May 1st so sup-
pose the notice was in the paper May 2nd. Have just come
from the News and Courier, and they looked, but found they had
no paper of May at all so tlie only way that you could get one
that I know of is if the family would give one that they might
have, and don't suppose they would care to do that. . . .
Your fond cousin. Blanche.
It would appear to be sufficiently established by Mrs.
Harris's letter that Mr. Plenge's death occurred on May 1, 1923.
190 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1924.
If, therefore, Mrs. Wilkie is correct in referring her impression
to May 3, this impression did not coincide mth the death, but
occurred two days later. It is, however, to be observed that
Mrs. Wilkie is admittedly uncertain as to the exact date of her
impression, and since no contemporary note was made, the
date cannot now be fixed. In these circumstances the case
cannot be reckoned as a " death-coincidence," but it seems to
be clearly shown on the evidence of Mrs. Wilkie herself, her
son, Mr. G. B. Wilkie, and Mr. Bromberg, that the experience
occurred before Mrs. Wilkie had any normal knowledge of Mr.
Plenge's illness and death.
Subsequently, after receiving the proof of this report, Mr.
Bromberg wrote to Mrs. Salter as follows :
November 27, 1923.
Since writing to you yesterday Mrs. Wilkie is in my office and
states that the feelings that she had and the statements she made
to her son positively took place before she received the newspaper
containing the obituary of Mr. Plenge. She also distinctly remem-
bers that as soon as she received the paper, and observed the
date of the death, she remarked to her son and also came down
and told the writer that the obituary showed this death occurred
the same evening that she had thought of him and of hearing
his voice. . . . Frederick CI. Bromberg.
CONCERNING THE " PRICE-HOPE " CASE.
In April of this year one of our Members, the Rev. C. Drayton
Thomas, sent us a detailed criticism of the report of Mr.
H. Price's experiment with the Crewe Circle as printed in the
Journal for May 1922 (p. 171), and further discussed by the
Hon. Officers of the Society in the Journal for January 1923
(p. 4). In this criticism Mr. Thomas gave reasons why in
his opinion the evidence put forward in Mr. Price's report
should not be regarded as affording proof that any member
of the Crewe Circle had been guilty of fraud on the occasion
in question.
Mr. Thomas's statement was examined by the Research
Committee of the Society, who discussed it with him at some
length, and eventually invited him to make an abstract of
Jan., 1924. Concerning the " Price-Hope " Case. 191
his arguments to be printed in the Journal, the original
statement being too long for this purpose.
This abstract, as sent to u.s by Mr. Thomas, we now print,
together with a reply on behalf of the Eesearch Committee,
written at the request of the Council.
Statement by the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas.
The following is an abstract of the report upon this case
prepared by a Member of the Society for consideration by
the Research Committee.
The report itself being considered too lengthy for inclusion
in the Journal, the Committee suggested that an abstract
should be placed before our readers.
1. The main questions are :
(o) Whether the packet which Price handed to Hope con-
tained the plates marked by the Imperial Plate Company.
(5) Whether the plates exposed in the camera by Hope
came out of the .said packet.
2. As to (a) : In the first place the neglect to take proper
precautions for the continuous security of the packet from
the time it left the control of the Imperial Plate Co. till
the time of the seance ; and secondly, the omission, when
the coverings were opened, to notice whether the seals were
effective and intact, weaken the evidence as to the identity
of the plates so much that the point is not proved in the
judicial sense.
3. As to (6) : Mr. Price alleges that the slide containing
plates taken from the said packet was changed by Mr. Hope
for another slide containing other plates. He says that he
marked the slide into which the plates were put, that he
noticed a suspicious movement on Hope's part which suggested
the substitution of another slide, that this suspicion was con-
firmed when he failed to find on the slide which Hope gave
to him the second time the niarlvs made on the original slide,
and that suspicion was converted to certainty when the
development showed that the plates were not those which had
been in the packet. This appears to be the meaning of
his various statements. He has not said in his published
evidence that he observed the results of his attempt to mark
192 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1924.
the slide ; and the presumption, that the performance then
was equal to the demonstration before the S.P.R. Annual
Meeting in January 1923 is weakened by the consideration
that, to elude Hope's observation and hearing, he must have
acted more covertly and silently than at the meeting. He
certainly did not take the precaution of inventing some excuse
to show the marks to Seymour and thus obtain corroborative
testimony. It is possible, therefore, that, when he received
back from Hope what purported to be the same slide, he
found no marks on it because his apparatus had failed to
work properly.
4. A subsidiary question touching the respective theories
of both sides concerning (a) and (6) relates to the source
of the two anonymous parcels sent to the S.P.R. The same
person apparently sent both (see letter accompanying the
second parcel). The sender's object was to prejudice Hope's
case. To have obtained possession of the plate forming one
of the Imperial Co.'s original set, which plate was in parcel
No. 1, the sender must have been either somebody attached
to the British College for Psychic Science who bore ill will to
Hope, as the letter and papers enclosed in the parcels imply,
or somebody connected with the experiment. There is no
evidence that Hope had an enemy at the College, and nothing
to show that such an enemy, had there been one, could have
found out at so early a stage of the proceedings that the
S.P.R. was concerned in this experiment. If the sender was
an enemy, he was extraordinarily fortunate in selecting this
particular undeveloped plate when rummaging through Hope's
stock. If he were one of the experimenters, he must have
had access to the packet and obtained the plate before the
seance, taking advantage of the laxity of the custody.
5. There were two glass positives in the second parcel
representing a Chinese Magician, which are at least as likely
to have been in the possession of somebody connected with
the Magic Circle as to have been found among Hope's stock.
There is no evidence to connect them with any " extra
"
ever obtained by Hope.
6. The red celluloid disc contained in parcel No. 2 was
apparently intended to suggest a device for imitating the
Jan., 1924. Concerning the "Price-Hope'' Case. 193
stencil dots used for the X-ray outline of the Imperial Plate
€o.'s trademark, the figure of a crowned lion. Whether it
was made by Hope, or by someone else who A\dshed to convey
"the impression that Hope had so made it, is the point at
issue. The correspondence between the pattern of these dots
on the red disc and two sections of the crowned lion is too
close to be due to coincidence.
One of these sections is the hind leg, as on the plate
enclosed in anonymous parcel No. 1, which belonged to the
original set prepared for Mr. Price. Nobody could have known
what was on this plate who had not seen it after its develoj)-
ment, and because it was not developed until it reached the
.S.P.R. only a person in touch v\rith the S.P.R. could have
obtained the knowledge ; and Hope is thus absolved from the
suspicion of making those dots on the disc which correspond
with the lion's hind leg.
Other dots on this red disc represent the crowned head of
the lion. An examination of the complete set of plates shows
this to have been the section of the figure which was borne
hy the plate still missing, that is to say, one of the plates
said to have been given by Mr. Price to Mr. Hope for the
•experiment and for which other plates were substituted either
then or at an earlier stage (see paragraphs 2 and 3 above).
Whoever had the plate with the hind leg doubtless had also
i}he plate marked Avith the crowned head ; the same person
must have copied from both plates to make the pattern
which is on the red disc, and this person cannot have been
Hope.
(To follow this argument in detail the reader requires the
photographic illustrations, and the text, embodied in the
report of which this is an abstract.)
7. Finally, there is the mistaken remark in parcel No. 2
about Madam getting suspicious, which may more plausibly
be attributed to one of the experimenters than to anyone
•connected with the College.
8. The general circumstances, therefore, and the internal
evidence furnished by the contents of the parcels are favour-
able to the theory of their source having been the Magic
Circle rather than the College.
194 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1924.
9. In the S.P.It. Jountal for May 1922, page 283, it was
stated that
:
" It can, we think, hardly be denied that Mr. William Hope
has been found guilty of deliberately substituting his own plates
for those of a sitter.""
On an ex ;par?e statement of the case this impression was
natural ; but now that the other side has been heard and
fresh facts have come to light it is inconceivable that any
impartial Court would convict him on the evidence.
Keply to Mr. Drayton Thomas's Statement.
We give below a reply seriatim to the arguments put for-
ward by Mr. Thomas. It should be stated that this replv
has been made as brief as possible. If any of our Members-
wish to enquire further into the case, they can see at the
Eooms of the Society a copy of Mr. Thomas's original detailed
criticism, and our Research Officer, Mr. E. J. Dingwall, or
the Hon. Editor, Mrs. Salter, will be glad to discuss with
them any points upon which they are not satisfied.
The numbers given below in round brackets refer to the
numbered sections of Mr. Thomas's statement.
(2) With regard to the suggestion that the packet of plate*
taken by Mr. Price to the sitting cannot be proved to be the
identical packet containing all the plates prepared and marked
by the Imperial Dry Plate Co., we are entirely satisfied that
the packet of plates handed over to Mr. Price and Mr. Seymour
immediately before the sitting was the identical packet com-
mitted to the Society's charge. As to what occurred before
this packet came into the Society's possession we are admit-
tedly dependent on Mr. Price's statement. On this point the
Hon. Officers of the Society have already stated {Jour. Jan.
1923, p. 5) that after careful enqiiiry they can find no evidence
whatever that the packet had been tampered with by any of
the people through whose hands it had passed. No fresh
evidence has been broxight to the Society's notice which could
lead us to reconsider this conclusion, and the assumption that
proper precautions were not taken for the continuous security
Jan., 1924. Concerni7ig the Price-Hope'" Case. 195
of the packet during its detention in the Society's keeping
is gratuitous and unfounded.
(3) With regard to the suggestion that Mr. Price may have
failed to mark the slide into which his own plates were put,
we would point out that while it is, of course, possible that
Mr. Price's apparatus failed to make the expected marks^
there is absolutely no ground for supposing this to have been
the case, in view of the fact that his own statements are clear
and consistent ; he is experienced in such matters ; he knew
exactly what he had to do and what to look for afterwards.
When, therefore, he asserts positively that he marked one
slide in a certain way and that the slide eventually put into
the camera was 7iot marked, his assertions afford strong pre-
sumptive evidence that a change of slides had in fact been
effected. This evidence is reinforced by the absence of any
marks on the two plates developed after the sitting.
As to the circumstance of Mr. Price having failed to draw
Mr. Seymour's attention to the marked slide, he has already
explained at the Annual Meeting of the Society in January
last that he was actuated by a desire not to arouse any
suspicion of his proceedings on the part of Mr. Hope or Mrs.
Buxton.
(4) With regard to the two anonymous packets it has not
so far been possible—although in this matter we have done our
best—to obtain any clear evidence as to the identity of the
sender. As to Mr. Thomas's statement that " the sender was
extraordinarily fortunate in selecting this particular undeveloped
plate [one of the original marked plates] when rummaging
through Hope's stock,'" we cannot do better than repeat the
statement already made in the Journal for January 1923-
p. 8.
It is not difficult to suppose that the sender of the anonymous
packet was aware of Mr. Price's experiment ;
for, according to
Mr. Price's account, two marked plates were left at the College
in a dark slide into which they were loaded. Only one of them
has been returned. The other may well have been developed at
the College by Mr. Hope himself, who would thus become aware
of its being marked, and that, therefore, Mr. Price must have
discovered the substitution practised on him.
196 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1924.
As to the suggestion that no one at the British College for
Psychic Science " could have found out at so early a stage
of the proceedings that the S.P.R. was concerned in the
experiment," it should be noted that Mr. Price was known to
be a Member of the Society, and that in March 1922 the
following note appeared in the Journal
:
The Research Officer would be glad if those Members and
Associates of the Society who have experiments in view with Mr.
Hope, Mrs. Deane, or Mr. Vearncombe, would communicate with
him before arranging their sittings.
It is rather surprising that Mr. Thomas should assert positively
that the object of the sender of the two anonymous packets
" was to prejudice Hope's case," seeing that in Sections 5 and
6 of his statement he himself argues that the contents of the
second packet go far to prove Hope's innocence !
(5) It is doubtless true that the representation of a Chinese
Magician found upon one of the glass positives in the second
anonymous packet might " have been in the possession of
somebody connected mth the Magic Circle.'' But would such
a person have selected it as a likely method of casting sus-
picion upon Mr. Hope ? Would he not have been more likely
to reproduce upon this positive the kind of " extra " which
is typical of Hope's phenomena ? It is more easily arguable
that someone of Mr. Hope's circle might have chosen the
Magician in order to cast suspicion on someone comiected with
the Magic Circle.
(6) We now come to the only point in Mr. Thomas's state-
ment which brings forward anything in the way of new
•evidence. Mr. Thomas contends that the marks upon the red
celluloid disc contained in the second anonymous packet are
in fact copied from that portion of the Imperial Dry Plate
Co.'s Trade Mark (the hind leg of the lion) which was repro-
duced upon the undeveloped plate sent to the Society in the
first anonymous packet and developed on behalf of the Society
by the London Stereoscopic Society. No one, he says, " could
have known Avhat was on this plate who had not seen it
<ifter its development,'' and such a person must have been " in
touch with the S.P.R."
Jan., 1924. Concerning the "Price-Hope" Case. 197
Assuming for the moment that Mr. Thomas is correct in
his statement that part of the marks on the ceUuloid disc
have been copied from the plate sent undeveloped to the
S.P.R., may we not ask why a person in touch with the
S.P.R." and desirous to incriminate Hope should have deliber-
ately chosen to copy just that part of the Trade Mark con-
cerning which knowledge could not easily be attributed to
Hope or any of his associates ? According to Mr. Thomas's
own statement the marks on the celluloid disc were in part
copied from the plate which w^as (and still is) missing and
might be presumed to be in Hope's possession. Why did
the sender of the second anonymous packet not confine him-
self to copying the marks on that missing plate, thereby
carrying the trail of suspicion straight back to Hope ?
The " Chinese Magician " argument suggests a surprising
lack of resource in Mr. Thomas's shadowy villain ; the argument
now under consideration surely implies a perverse ineptitude
which passes all behef !
The real answer, as we believe, to Mr. Thomas's argument
is that there is no good reason for supposing that the marks
on the celluloid disc are " copied " from any part of the
Trade Mark. For the details of Mr. Thomas's argument
'(together yvith the ilhxstrations he sent us in support of it)
we must refer our readers to his full statement which, as we
have already said, can be seen at the Society's Rooms. Put
briefly the arguments against Mr. Thomas are as follows :
(a) The alleged resemblance between a part of the pattern
on the celluloid disc and the hind leg of the lion (on the un-
developed plate) can only be made apparent by quite arbi-
trarily dividing the pattern on the celluloid disc into two parts
at a point where there is no evidence of such a division
;
that is to say, a group of dots which appear to form a con-
tinuous curve has to be counted as belonging partly to one
section and partly to another.
(6) The correspondence in number between the dots forming
a certain part of the pattern on the celluloid disc and the
-dots forming the hon's hind leg (18 dots in each case, see
Mr. Thomas's detailed statement) is only reached by arbi-
trarily determining both as regards the celluloid disc and as
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1924
regards the Trade Mark at what point in the pattern we are
to begin and end the counting.
We maintain that the objections brought forward under
(a) and {b) weaken Mr. Thomas's argument so seriously that
only an absolutely exact correspondence between the selected
portion of the celluloid disc and the hind leg of the lion would
have enabled Mr. Thomas to prove his point.
As a matter of fact there is no exact correspondence ; there
IS only a general resemblance in outUne, which does not seem
at all beyond what chance might produce.
With regard to the resemblance detected by Mr. Thomas
between the pattern on another part of the celluloid disc and
the crowned head of the lion, after subtracting the dots re-
quired by Mr. Thomas to form the Uon's hind leg, we are
left with four large dots—too few in number and too vague
in outhne for any conclusion to be drawn from them—and
a double row of small dots set close together, which have no
counterpart on any portion of the Trade Mark.
What we suggest is that the person who made the celluloid
disc had probably seen that part of the Trade Mark which
would appear on the missing plate (left at the College accord-
ing to Mr. Price's statement and never traced since) ; thi&
unknown person may or may not have recognised the pattern
on the plate as forming part of the Imperial Co.'s Trade
Mark—on this point there is no clear evidence ; he did not
"copy" any part of the Trade Mark, but he pricked out a
pattern of dots sufficiently like the marks on the plate to
suggest imitation.
As to the motive by which the sender of the two anonymous
packets was actuated, no positive assertions can be made so
long as he remains imidentified. We should hke, however, to
suggest that if his motive was to obscure the issue and draw a
red herring across the original trail, the amount of time and
trouble expended by Mr. Thomas and others in a discussion of
these packets is evidence of his success.
(7) We cannot follow Mr. Thomas's reasoning. It does not
appear to us that the wording of the remark included in the
second anonymous packet affords any clear evidence one way
or the other as to the source of the packets.
jax., 1924. Concerning the '^Price-Hope" Case. 199
(8) For the reasons given above we dissent from Mr. Thomas's
conclusion that " the contents of the parcels are favourable
to the theory of their source having been the Magic Circle
lather than the College," though the general evidence is in-
sufficient to justify us in suggesting the imphcation of any
particular person. Mr. Thomas, we note, does not repeat the
suggestion that has been made in other quarters that some
person at the Society's Offices tampered with the packet of
plates before the experiment. It appears scarcely necessary
to refer to this suggestion otherwise than by pointing out the
fact that the wrapper, upon the condition of which it is based,
was preserved and handed over to the British College by our
Research Officer, an action absurdly inconsistent with any such
presumed guilt.
(9) After a careful consideration of all the evidence brought
to our notice we are unable to find any indication of mala
jides either on the part of Mr. Price or on the part of any
of those associated with him in his experiment, and we see
no reason to doubt that the report of this experiment, as
printed in the Journal for May 1922, w^as substantially true.
A year and seven months have now elapsed since the
printing of this report. During that interval the case has been
thoroughly discussed at the Annual General IMeeting of the
Society in January 1923, and we have tried to give fair
consideration to such arguments as have been put forward
for rejecting Mr. Price's evidence. We do not feel that any
useful purpose can be served by prolonging the discussion,
«o far as concerns the evidence already before us. If anv new
evidence of importance should be brought to our notice,
Members of the Society may be sure that it will receive our
most careful attention. !
Note by Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
I regret that in the very brief report of the Annual General
jMeeting of the Society, pubhshed in our Journal for February
last, there was not space for the excellent speech made by
Sir OHver Lodge on Sir A. Conan Doyle's motion, nor for
my letter to the chairman on the same topic.
Journal of Society for Psychical Besearch. Jan., 1924.
The following extract from my letter expresses the view I
hold on the whole question :
"Whilst I have nothing to do with the investigation in dispute,
let me say that no one who knows our Research Officer, Mr.
Dingwall, can doubt for a moment that his zeal and ability are
coupled with a perfectly straightforward and open mind. At the
same time, the way in which the Hope inquiry has been con-
ducted is, I think, a matter for regret. Our Research Officer
should have had the investigation entirely in his own hands, or
withdrawn from it altogether. As it is, not only Mr. Price, but
two other persons, Mr. Seymour and Mr. Moger—neither of whom
are connected with the S.P.R.—were more or less mixed up in
the enquiry. I have not the least doubt they are all perfectly
honourable gentlemen, but under these circumstances, in view
of the unsatisfactory results obtained, it is far better, in my
opinion, not to waste time over further discussion and recrimina-
tion, but to go back to Mr. Pugh's generous offer contained in
the July [1922] Journal, and begin the investigation de novo.
Might I beg my friend Sir Arthur Conan Doyle to read the four
liberal conditions stipulated by Mr. Pugh, accepted by the S.P.R.
—
and, I believe also, by Mr. Hope, on condition that he was told
about the anonymous packet, which was done, I understand.
"We all know how much the mental attitude of the investigator
affects the medium, and may inhibit all supernormal phenomena.
Hence it is undesirable that anyone who has already committed
himself adversely to Hope should take part in this further enquiry."'
CONCERNING TWO NEW GROUPS FOR PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH.
We have been informed by one of our Members, Herr
Regierungsrat Ubald Tartaruga, that, upon his initiative, a
" Parapsycliic Institute " has been established in Vienna. This.
Institute, which has for its object "systematic and impartial
enquiry into psychical phenomena," consists in a Committee of
Direction and Associates.
It proposes to hold weelcly meetings every Saturday evening at
the Neue Wiener Handelsakademie.
We have also been informed by Monsieur Ed. Wietricli of the
foundation in Paris of the Societe d'Etudes Telepathiques (Cercle-
Jan., 1924. Correspondence. 201
S. Hotel des Societes Savantes, 28 Paie Serpente, Paris 6).
Monsieur Wietrich tells us that the Society would be glad to be
put in touch with possible percipients with a view to arranging
experiments.
We are Qjlad to note these indications of increased interest in
psychical research in other countries, and we wish both these
Societies all success.
CORRESPONDENCE.
CONCEENING PROFESSOR RICHET S TRAITJS DE M^TA-
PSYCHIQLE AND THE MEDIUM SAMBOR.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
November 16, 1923.
Dear Madam,—I see that in his magnificent work Tmite de
Metapsychique Professor Ch. Richet more than once refers to my
experiments with Sambor, but says that all these experiments
—
and even " everything Sambor did "—must be held to be " abso-
lutely suspicious
'""
—and this : because I (P. P. S.) did subsequently
ascertain that one of my friends, who was also one of the sitters
(in some of the seances, be it added), proved to be Sanibor's
" accomplice."
Professor Bichet will permit me to state that in this form what
he atfi.rms is incorrect.^
I never obtained' one item of evidence that the ''friend " referred
to {who died in 1915 or 1916) played the part of an accompilice of
the famous Russian medium. The evidence we subsequently
(about eight years after S.'s death) did obtain was this : X. was
detected in not holding a medium's hand when he ought to have
controlled it. As to this there is no doubt. And as it was X.
who controlled at some of my best sittings witli Sambor (notably
at two simply marvellous ones held in St. Petersburg in May
1902—my last ones with that medium), I felt bound to consider
tliat these seances must be held to be " null and void " : a
tremendous pity since they were so good. But I repeat that we
had no direct evidence that X. did allow Sambor to cheat either
at the sittings in question or at any other. In particular the
1 See my article in S.P.E. Proceedings, Vol. XXV., 1911, pp. 413-417.
202 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jax., 1924.
first of the two sittings above referred to seemed to contain at
least one feature telling against the hypothesis of fraud : some of
the sitters who were facing the windows thought they saw a kind
of stick protruding from the medium and moving a chair which
had been (" supernormally ") placed on the table ;
when, however,
that part of the sitting over, Sambor was thoroughly searched
nothing suspicious was found. Still I cannot honestly lay stress
on these two sittings, seeing that unfortunately X. controlled at
them ; but that is all.
In justice to the late Sambor (who died in 1902) I, though now
fin almost thorough sceptic, wish to make that plain statement.
As for the experiments with the so-called " chair threading " to
which Professor Richet very briefly I'efers (]). 710), the X. incident
leaves these experiments entirely unaffected (with one exception
only : when at one of the two seances in question the chair was
threaded on X.'s own arm). I still think these experiments very
remarkable, and possibly affording us {via suggestion) an explana-
tion of some a])parently " ectoplasmic " cases. For they leave us
no choice between either (o) passage of matter through matter
(which I reject) or (6) unreliability of the hand control even when
the medium's hand is grasped.
The painful and absuid X. episode (and I may add by the way
that even when hard pressed by me subsequently X. never
admitted he had cheated) leaves my special experiments on
Sambor's " chair threading," I can say it honestly, entirely
untouched.
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo
.
P.S.—I observe that apropos of the Sambor-X. case Professor
Eichet says :
" On ne pent pas faire assister a une experience des individus
quelconques ; ils doivent etre tons d'une loyaute tellement irre-
prochable que nous pourrions I'attester avec autant de force que
si c'etait la notre "
(pp. 599, 600).
It may interest your readers to know that X. was far from
being " un individu quelconque." He died in a very important
diplomatic post abroad (that is, not in Russia). Prior to that lie
had been for many years an official in the Russian Foreign Office,
Petrograd. Apart from that he was a most distinguished and
well-known alpinist, a painter, and a writer ; and a very pleasant
man besides. He was also a Chamberlain of the Imperial Court.
Jan., 1924. Correspondence
.
203
I may add by the way that he never " confessed." Since my
article in S.P.E.. Proceedings (Vol. XXV. pp. 413-446) I had the
opportunity in 1911, under rather dramatic circumstances, of
entreating him in as eloquent and friendly terms as I could
muster to admit that he had deceived me. He maintained cate-
gorically he had not. I then let the matter drop. And yet we
undoubtedly did detect him in not holding the medium's hand.
And this of course makes it very difficult, if not impossible, to
attach any importance to any cases in which he controlled, and
casts a peculiarly lurid light on the sittings in his presence at which
numerous apports appeared (the medium being chiefly a girl
-called Luba Morozofi). I often ask myself if his case is not
somewhat analogous to a mucli more famous one : that of the
Eev. Stainton Moses. P.-P.-S.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
The Occult Review for November has a further instalment of the
messages purporting to come from Oscar Wilde through the
automatic writing of Mr. V. ; an article by Mr. H. S. Redgrove
comparing the mysticism of Blake and Swedenborg ;
and a note
on Indian symbolism by V. B. Metta.
The Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research for
October has an account of certain alleged telepathic experiments
with Mr. Romano at Warsaw. From the account published
there appears to be no evidence of telepathy ; it is rather a
record of various kinds of " muscle " and " sound " reading. The
Editor has a paper on scientific standards, in which he examines
the present position of the American Society, and he also con-
tributes a further record of a sitting with Miss M. Belle Cross.
The issue for November has a long review by Sir Oliver Lodge
of Prof. Richet's recently published Traite de Metapsychique (also
published in Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXXIV., p. 70 ff.) and two
translations from Dr. Geley and Prof. Oesterreich. Dr. Titus
Bull replies to a request by Dr. Osty for a clear statement upon
the resistance to metapsychic science as seen in the United States.
Dr. Bull sees in this resistance a relation to the assumed spiritual
causality underlying psychical phenomena. Science to him is
taking the place of religion and demanding power and control for
204 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 19 24
itself. Materialism, as seen in the commercial civilisation of the
United States, is a factor making, according to Ur. Bull, for a
utilitarian order, and consequently the problems of psychical
research have but little attraction for the commercial mind.
Psychische Studien for September has a review of Dr. Schwab's
recent experiments by Baron von Schrenck-Notzing ; an article
by Dr. E. Kindborg on telepathy ; and a review by Dr. Rabel
of Count Keyserling's book Das Okhilte, recently noticed in these
pages. The issue for October has the first instalment of an
account by Prof. Adolf Hoffmann of the poltergeist disturbances
at Brody, a small town on the Polish-Ga^ician frontier. The
phenomena, which remind the reader strongly of the recent dis-
turbances at Ledaig, took place in the house of a local parson
and commenced in 1922. Raps and telekinetic movements are
reported, besides a certain amount of "direct" writing on paper
supplied for the purpose.
The Reviie Metapsychique for July-August has a continuation of
the account of the seances with the medium Guzik, both in
Warsaw and Paris. Further details are published on the pheno-
mena observed and on the degree of control exercised by the
investigators. Dr. Osty has an article on certain aspects of
prevision, whilst M. P. Farthung contributes a long review of
activities abroad.
In the Revue Meta'psychique for September-Octol^er is published
a translation of Sir Oliver Lodge's review of Professor Richet's
Tiaite de Metapsychique, and also a full account of the success of
the clairvoyant, Stephan Ossowiecki, in describing at Warsaw
the contents of the sealed packet brought from England by the
Society's representative, Mr. E. J. Dingwall. (This is the same
incident as was described by Mr. Dingwall at a Private Meeting
of the Society on December 13th last. It is hoped to print a
report of it later in the Journal.)
No. CCCCII.—Vol. XXI. February, 1924.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A
GENERAL MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
THE STEINWAY HALL,
WIGMORE STREET, LONDON, W. i,
On THURSDAY, MARCH 6th, 1924, at fi p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
"ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST SURVIVAL"
(A Discussion between Professor Charles Richet and Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R, S.)
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at
the door. Visitors ivill be admitted on production of a card signed by
a Member or Associate. One ticket of invitation is issued with the
fournal.''' Additional tickets, as far as accommodation permits, can be
obtained from the Secretary.
WILL BE HELD IN
WILL BE READ BY
Sir OLIVER LODGE, F.R.S.
206 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1924
' CASES. >
I.
L. 1251, A Veridical Dream.
The following case of a veridical dream concerning a fatal
accident was first reported in the Times of October 2, 1923,.
thus :
Soldier Deowned While Bathing.
An inquest was held at St. Peter's Barracks, Jersey, on Sunday,
on the body of Private Arthur William Quinn, of the King's
Liverpool Regiment, aged 34, a native of Bow, London, who was
found dro' ed in a gully between Pinnacle Rock, Plemont, and
Grosnez F t on Saturday.
Compar Quartermaster-Sergeant Edward Joseph McGuinn said
that Priv; j
Quinn was reported missing on September 27, and
his body was found floating face downwards at the spot mentioned.
The witness added that on the morning of the 27th, before it
was known that Quinn was missing, his own wife told him that
she had had a dream, in which she imagined that she saw a man's
body floating on the sea face downwards. She felt that it was one
of their own men whom she knew, but could not recognise his
features, as his face was scarred and cut. The witness added that
his wife knew the dead man very well. He was a good and con-
scientious soldier, who always went for solitary walks.
A verdict of " Accidentally drowned, while bathing," was^
returned.
On October 2, 1923, after reading the above report, and
again on October 20 and 22, 1923, the Secretary, Miss Newton,
wrote to Quartermaster-Sergeant McGuinn to ask for further
particulars. On October 23, 1923, Quartermaster-Sergeant
McGuinn wrote to Miss Newton, thus :
3 Married Quarters,
The King's Regiment, Jersey, C.I., 23-10-13.
I am in receipt of your letters D/2nd, 20th, 22nd, inst. request-
ing further information as to the death of Pte. A. W. Quinn and
my wife's dream in connection thereto. I have been particularljr
Feb., 1924. Cases. 207
busy in preparing a draft for foreign service, or should have
written you earlier, and have also had no little trouble in over-
coming my wife's objections to further publicity in the matter.
In the first j^lace it will be as well to enlighten you to the fact
that the late Pte. Quinn was my storeman, and that my wife
knew him quite well. During September half my company were
at Les Landes Musketry Camp, firing the annual course. I went
out daily by bicycle, but Quinn remained at camp to look after
my stores there.
On the morning of the 27th Sept. (I am sure of the date as it
was my 36th birthday) my wife told me that she had had a
nasty nightmare, and had dreamed that we were on a cliff near
St. Ouen's Bay. when, on looking over into the sea, she saw the
body of a man floating in the water face downwards. The head
appeared to be very swollen and white looking, with a very deep
gash near the forehead, and was pitted and scarred with small
cuts. She felt instinctively that it was one of our men whom she
knew well, but she could not see the face or recognise whom it
was. She went off to sleep but dreamed the same dream over
again."
My wife's description of the man's head was strikingly vivid, as
she likened its general appearance to the head of a little baby she
had seen a few days previously which was suffering from " water
on the brain." ' '
I afterwards identified the body in the mortuary, and saw
immediately how much the head was like my wife's description
of it. There was a deep gash over the left temple, and the top
of the head was covered in small cuts, where apparently the rocks
had cut it each time the body was washed against the rocks.
The spot where the body was found (Beauvallet) is quite near
St. Ouen's Bay, and its description tallies with the appearance of
the place in my wife's dream. My wife had never been further
than the shore, quite five miles from where the body was found.
The absence of Pte. Quinn was first notified to me by telephone
at about 2 p.m. on the 27th Sept., when I was asked if I had
called him in to attend to stores in barracks. During the after-
noon I mentioned to my wife that Pte. Quinn was reported absent.
She became very agitated, and said she felt sure that he had met
with an accident. Quinn was a most sober and conscientious man,
and I could not bring myself to believe that he was absenting
208 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1924.
himself in an ordinary way. I let tlie matter go until next morn-
ing, when I went to the Orderly Room and asked for a search
party to be sent out. I related my wife's dream to the Orderly
Room Sergeant (on the 28th), and it of course met with the usual
laugh which, perhaps not unnaturally, occurs when one relates such
an incident.
However, on the 29th, as I was so insistent that the man was
not absent, a search party was sent out, and at about 2 p.m.
found the body floating in the water, exactly as described in my
wife's dream. The clothing was found first, half-way down the
rocks, and that of course stimulated the search.
Two other instances, although having no bearing on the present
case, I would mention as they will no doubt interest members of
your society.
Fifteen years ago my wife dreamed that her sister was being
buried. As the hearse went along the road and turned a corner,
she saw (in her dream) the sun come out and illuminate the
hearse and coffin. A month later her sister died, and each incident
of the funeral, even to that of the sun shining on the coffin
at the turn of the corner, was repeated in reality as in the
dream.
In Sept., 1914, I was reported missing and killed in the retire-
ment from Mons. Although my own mother and relatives believed
me to be dead, my fiancee (I was not married then) refused to
believe it and insisted all along that I was alive, as she had
dreamed that she had seen me waving to her as I had waved
from the boat when we left England. I was wounded and taken
prisoner, and the first news my people received of me was towards
the latter end of November, 1914.
I have related the foregoing as I know it to be true, and may
be of some use in the solving of the problem of the sub-conscious
self. My wife too often had premonitions of certain occurrences,
and in most cases the thing occurred.
My wife cannot sit down and write about her dream, it un-
nerves her so. I have written for her, and trust it will serve its
purpose in aiding you in your researches.
•
, : : - . E. J. McGuiNN.
P.S.—My wife has no objection to you making what use you.
please of this narrative.—E. J. McG.
Feu., 1024. Cases. 209
In reply to this letter, Miss Newton wrote again to Quarter-
master-Sergeant McGuinn on November 7, 1923, asking for
further information on the following points :
(1) Is it known approximately when Private Quinn dis-
appeared or was last seen ?
(2) When did Mrs. McGuinn last see Private Quinn ?
(3) Is there any reason for supposing the case to be one
of suicide ?
(4) Did Mrs. McGuinn know Private Quinn well enough to
know whether he was depressed or worried about anything?
Miss Newton also enquired whether it would be possible to
obtain from the Orderly Eoom Sergeant a statement of his
recollection of the account given him of the dream on Sep-
tember 28, 1923, before the finding of the body.
In reply to this letter Quartermaster-Sergeant McGuinn wrote
again as follows :
18-11-23.
With reference to your letter of 7th inst., I have asked the Orderly
Room Sergeant if he will be wilHng to corroborate my statement to
him of my wife's dream. He is prepared to do so, and will
answer any questions you may put to him upon the subject.
The following will find him
:
Q.M.S. Franklin, 2a Green Street, St. Helier, Jersey,
I will answer your questions as fully as possible, trusting they
\vill be lucid enough to give some light upon so complex a subject.
(1) According to evidence given at the inquest, Pte. Quinn was
last seen about 3.30 p.m. on 26th Sept. walking in the direction
of the cliffs.
(2) My wife saw Pte. Quinn on the Saturday prior to his death,
i.e. 22nd Sept.
(3) There was a rumour to the effect that Pte. Quinn had
committed suicide. The only information I have elicited with
regard to the birth of the rumour is the fact that Pte. Quinn
was supposed to have been jilted by his fiancee. I personally
went through his correspondence but found nothing to indicate
that he had been jilted. Only a fortnight prior to his death he
had asked me for the information as to his prospects of being
placed upon the married roll of the battalion, and told me that
210 Journal of Society for Psychical Kef<earch. Feb., 1924.
iie wished me to arrange for his annual leave in January for the
purpose of getting married.
'
Pte. Quinn's clothing was found folded and covered by his over-
coat. From my personal experience of Quinn, I think suicide was
most unlikely.
(4) My wife had no knowledge as to whether he was worried or
depressed. She knew him simply as my storeman from the fact
that I sent him to my quarters with messages, etc.
She also knew from what I had told her that Quinn was apt to
worry over trifles, and she remembers that once when Pte. Quinn
had been placed under arrest by a young non-commissioned
ofEcer, he came to see me at my quarters, and was in a very
agitated condition until I heard the full facts of the case, and
released him from arrest. Quinn was a man who worried and
fumed over minor matters. He was also, as far as is possible in
the army, somewhat of a recluse, and devoted to reading books
upon somewhat abstruse subjects, a queer taste for a man not well
educated. E. J. McGuinn.
Quartermaster-Sergeant McGuinn also explained in the above
letter that the two incidents described in the concluding part
of his letter of October 28, 1923, occurred before his marriage,
the percipient being in each case his present wife.
In reply to the above letter Miss Newton wrote to Quarter-
master-Sergeant McGuinn asking for a signed statement from
Mrs. McGuinn, endorsing the record sent to us of her dream.
Subsequently Mrs. McGuinn sent the following statement
:
December 4, 1923.
I have read the letters to Miss Newton written by my husband
on 23rd Oct. and 18th Nov., and agree with all that he has written
with reference to my dream and other experiences. L. M. McGuinn.
Miss Newton also wrote to Quartermaster-Sergeant Franklin
asking for an account of what he remembered being told of
Mrs. McGuinn's dream before Private Quinn's body was found.
The following reply was received :
- December 26, 1923.
In reply to your letters, which I regret I have not answered
earlier.
C.Q.M.S. McGuinn mentioned to me about 11 a.m. on the
Teb., 1924. Cases. 211
morning of the 27th September/ 1923, that his wife, Mrs. McGuinu,
had dreamt that she saw the body of a soldier she knew, but
could not recognise, lying on the sands at the foot of a cliff
dead.
At that time I was unaware that any one was absent in the
battalion. At 2 p.m. I received notification officially that Pte.
Quinn was an absentee.
I did not regard his absence as a serious matter or think any-
thing harmful had happened to him, and especially would not
connect the man with committing suicide by any means, drowning
or otherwise. He was an exceptionally steady man, and his work
was always performed conscientiously.
His body was found on the 29th September, 1923, by a search
party which was sent out on the off chance " that there " might
be something in the dream," I having mentioned the fact of the
dream to my superior.
The dream was related to me 2 days^ before the man was found.
A. H. Franklin, Q.M.S.
A detailed report of the inquest on the body of Private
Quinn was published in the Jersey Weekly Post on October 6,
1923. It corroborates the statements made by Q.M.S. McGuinn
and Q.M.S. Franklin, and the following paragraphs are worth
noting : ,. ,
Lce.-Corpl. Alexander McCann said he was sent with a search
party at 2.45 on Saturday (Sept. 29, 1923) after the clothes had
been found ;
they were on the top of a rock. Pte. Jones, who
went around one side, saw something floating in the water ; the
head was being dashed against the rocks. . . . Pte. Fred. Geo.
Jones corroborated the previous witness's evidence. . . . He
recognised the body as that of Quinn by the short or square
neck ; the features were not recognisable.
It also appeared from e\adence given at the inquest that
Private Quinn was not present w^hen the roll was called at
9.30 p.m. on September 26, but as he had a late pass, this
circumstance attracted no attention. He w-as reported absent
^ According to Q.M.S. McGuinn's statement, he related his dream on
September 28, 1923. It seems, however, certain that he related it before
the finding of the body.
" See footnote above.
212 Journal of Society for Psycldeal Research. Feb., 1924.
when tlie roll was called at 6.30 a.m. the following morning.
He was last seen alive in the early afternoon of September 26,
and his death presumably occurred soon after. At the time of
Mrs. McGuinn's dream—during the night of September 26-27
—
it may therefore be supposed that he had been dead some
hours, but, so far as can be ascertained, no living person had
at that time any normal knowledge of the fact or circumstances
of his death. So far as concerns the fact of his death by
drowning, Mrs. McGuinn's dream might be accounted for by a
telepathic impression received from Private Quinn at the
moment of death. But this will not account for the close
coincidence as regards the conditions of the body and the
circumstances in which it was found. Unless this coincidence
can be ascribed to chance there appears to be in the dream,
an element of prevision.
It will be observed that there is a shght discrepancy between
the account of the dream given in Q.M.S. McGuinn's letter of
October 23, and the account in Q.M.S. Frankhn's letter of
December 26. According to the former Mrs. McGuinn saw
the body floating in the water (where it was in fact found)
;
according to the letter she saw it lying on the sand. Of the
two accounts, Q.M.S. McGuinn's, being earlier in date, seems
rather the more hkely to be accurate ; it corresponds, more-
over, with the statement made by Q.M.S. McGuinn at the
inquest on September 30, 1923, only three days after the
dream and one day after the finding of the body. As may
be judged by his letters, he is a good and careful
witness.
Miss Newton also made some enquiry into the question of the
weather at the time of Mrs. McGuinn's dream, to see whether
it was such a kind as particularly to suggest death by drown-
ing. It appears, however, that though there had been strong
winds earlier in the week, amounting on September 23 to a.
" moderate gale," the wind on September 26 (the day before
the dream) was only a " hght breeze" and the sea "moderate."
We should like to take this opportunity of thanking Q.M.S.
and Mrs. McGuinn and also Q.M.S. Franklin for the trouble
they have taken in assisting us to put an interesting case oa
record.
Feb., 1924. Cases. 213
II.
L. 1252. A Telepathic Impression.
We are indebted for the follo\ving report of what appears to
be a case of telepathy to Miss A. M. Brown, who was herself
the percipient and has given us permission to print her name.
Miss Brown's first report of the case was contained in a
letter to the Editor, Mrs. Salter, as follows :
Oct. 22, 1923.
As the S.P.R. among other activities is apparently still collect-
ing examples of telepathy, the enclosed notes of an instance of
the spontaneous kind may perhaps be of interest. May I add a
further detail to the notes, omitted at the time they were made
(yesterday, Oct. 21). " A. H. C4." left this morning, so is unable
to witness the statement.
It will be convenient to insert at this point the notes to
which Miss Brown refers as enclosed in her letter of Oct. 22,
1923, for the "further detail" is not easily intelligible until-
the original statement has been read.
Statement Enclosed in Miss Brown's Letter op
Oct. 22, 1923.
October 21, 1923.
The evening before last I and A. H. G. were sitting together
by the fire reading. She was reading the End of the House of
Alard by Sheila Kaye Smith, and I, Moordius & Co., by Locke.
Suddenly a memory came into my mind entirely unconnected with
anything in my book or anything I had been thinking about
during the day, and I said to A., " Do you remember the people-
who lived at B House ?
" naming a place near a country
cottage I had rented for some years, and where A. had spent
some months a year or two ago. She replied that she did, but
could not remember their names. Neither could I, at the moment,
but I went on to tell her the piece of information which had
just flashed into my mind, and which had been given me by a
mutual friend some months ago. It had reference to a divorce
case. When I had finished A. said : " What made you think of
214 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1924.
that ?
" "I haven't the least idea," I replied ; "it just came into
my mind." "Well, it is odd," she said, "but I was just reading
about a similar case when you spoke." She was reading Part II.,
Sect. 4, p. 83. I had not read the book at that time, nor had
I read any detailed review of it.
A. M. Brown.
I certify that this account is correct.
Agnes H. Gibb.
We will now quote the latter part of Miss Brown's letter
of October 22, 1923 :
Later in the evening [Oct. 19, 1923] I said, " I have just
remembered the name of the people at B House ; it was
'
Pembroke.' " " Oh, no," she said, " I am sure it was not ;
that is the name of the people in my book." Afterwards I did
remember the name of the people ; it had no resemblance whatever
to that of " Pembroke," it began with C and ended with D.
I have never tried any experiments with telepathy or " thought-
reading," but have had frequent instances of the non-experi-
mental type. ;,
I have also had one or two curious veridical dreams, but
unfortunately took no notes at the time, so have no evidence to
show for them.
A. M. Brown.
In reply to this letter Mrs. Salter wrote to Miss Brown to
point out that as regards the name " Pembroke," which did
not come into Miss Brown's mind until after she knew that
the apparent thought-transference between her friend and her-
self was concerned with a particular book The End of the
House of AJarrL it was possible that Miss Brown had at some
time read a review of the book in which the name " Pembroke
"
was mentioned ; if this were so, it would account for the
association of ideas in Miss Brown's mind. In reply to this
letter, Miss Brown wrote to Mrs. Salter as follows :
Oct. 31, 1923.
I have no objection to your mentioning my name in connec-
tion with the thought-transference case, if you should wish to
record it. With regard to the name " Pembroke," I cannot
Feb., 1924. Cases. 215
recall having read any detailed review of the book that men-
tioned it—the episode of her divorce proceedings is only incidental,
as you wUl see on reading the book. She was a married daughter
of the Alard family, and her married name is rarely mentioned.
The incident impressed my friend specially because of a somewhat
similar case which took place in her own family some years ago.
We had not discussed the book at all (I had not read it at
that time), nor had she even commented on it.
Of course, I cannot be sure that the name " Pembroke " was
not mentioned in a review ;
but, of course, as you say, that
point would not affect the other more evidential part of the
thought-transference.
A. M. Brown.
Subsequently, after reading The End of the House of Alard,
Mrs. Salter wrote again to Miss Brown to ask whether the fol-
lowing note was in her opinion a fair and adequate summing
up of the incident in question :
A married daughter, Mary Pembroke, is threatened with divorce
proceedings by her husband and, whilst maintaining her inno-
cence, is anxious to let the case go undefended, in order to avoid
notoriety and unpleasantness. Her family, however, take the
view that it is her duty to defend herself, and eventually she
yields to their arguments.
In reply, Miss Brown wrote to Mrs. Salter, thus :
Dec. 26, 1923.
In reply to your letter of the 19th . . . your account of the
incident of the Pembroke divorce in The End of the House of
Alard could not be put more concisely and accurately. The
incident it brought to my mind was one in which the pressure
was brought to bear by the man's family, not the woman's,
and was of a financial nature. The result of the trial was the
same in both cases ...
'
A. M. Brown.
With regard to the name ••
Pembroke, "'
although, as Miss
Brown points out in her letter of Oct. 31, 1923, this name is
not likely to have been mentioned in any but a very detailed
review of the book, and, so far as she is aware, Miss Brown
216 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1924.
had never seen such, a review, it is impossible to be absolutely
certain that Miss Brown had no normal knowledge of the
occurrence of the name in the book. This doubt, however,,
does not affect the evidence for thought-transference presented
by the first part of the incident.
Dr. PAGENSTECHER'S EXPERIMENTS IN PSYCHOMETRY.
A REMARKABLE series of experiments in psychometry is recorded
by Dr. Pagenstecher, one of our members, and Dr. Walter
Prince in Vols. XV. and XVI. of the Proceedings of the
American S.P.R. The medium, Senora Maria Reyes de Z, is
a Mexican lady of good social position and better education
than is usually possessed by ladies of her nationality. During
a course of hypnotic treatment for the cure of insomnia, Dr.
Pagenstecher observed that she manifested the possession of
supernormal faculties, of which she had herself until then no
suspicion.
Dr. Pagenstecher began his psychometric experiments in
1919, and the results he obtained were so surprising that he
laid the facts before the leading Mexican Medical Society,
which appointed a commission to verify them. Members of
this commission were present at several experiments and,
equally with Dr. Pagenstecher, were convinced of the super-
normal nature of the phenomena observed. In 1921 Dr.
Walter Prince went to Mexico and had several very successful
sittings. The case is therefore noteworthy for the amount of
skilled observation it has received.
The experiments conducted by Dr. Pagenstecher and also
by the Medical Society's Commission are recorded in Vol. XVI,
of the American Proceedings, and Dr. Prince's observations in
Vol. XV. It is perhaps unfortunate that the earlier series,
which was distinctly more successful, was not recorded with
quite the same clearness and fulness of detail as the later.
The procedure throughout was substantially the same.
Senora Z. and Dr. Pagenstecher were weighed at the beginning
of the sitting. Dr. Pagenstecher then hypnotised her, and
tests were applied to ascertain how far she retained her
Feb., 1!)24. Dr. Pagenstechefs Experiments in Psychometry. 217
ordinary senses of sight, hearing, touch, taste and smell. It
appears that she completely lost all these senses, except that
she was able to grasp with her fingers the object placed
within them for the purpose of the experiment, and to hear
and answer questions put to her by Dr. Pagenstecher. But
it was found that Dr. Pagenstecher's sensations were trans-
mitted to her, so that, if a bright Hght were flashed in his
eyes, she flinched, although she took no notice of a hght
flashed in her own. At the close of the experiment, they were
both weighed again, and it was invariably found that both
had lost weight considerably. However, in half-an-hour or so
they returned to approximately their normal weights.
The object to be psychometrised was placed between the
medium's fingers, which immediately clasped over it and then
kept rigid. She does not appear, therefore, to have been
assisted by any deductions that might be drawn from feehng
the object all over. The objects submitted were of various
kinds, e.g. a shoe, the seed of a tropical plant, fragments of
stone from ancient monuments, pieces of timber with historical
associations, etc. In some cases the history and nature of the
object was known to some of the experimenters, in others not.
In the former class it was, of course, impossible, as Dr. Prince
recognises, to exclude the possibility of successful results being
due to telepathy, but some of the most striking successes were
obtained where the history of the object was only ascertained
later by the experimenters.
In view, however, of the remarkable powers shown by the
medium as regards the transference to herself of Dr. Pagen-
stecher's physical sensations, we are bound to refer to tele-
pathy any cases in which the history of the object was known
to him. For instance, a piece of marble was submitted to
Senora Z. at three sittings. At the first, when Dr. Pagen-
stecher was unaware of its origin, she described merely an
open space, where, as she said, " it seems they are building a
town,"' with what appeared to be a church in the background.
The marble in fact came, as Dr. Pagenstecher ascertained
between this sitting and the next, from the Forum Romanum.
But no details were given at this sitting which might not
reasonably be attributed to subconscious guessing on the part
218 JotirnaL of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1924,
either of Dr. Pagenstecher or Senora Z. At the second and
third sittings, however, the principal features of the Forum
were clearly described, and from a post-hypnotic sketch of her
vision, made by the medium while still ignorant of the pro-
venance of the object, it is clear that she had visualised the
Forum, as it exists to-day, with great clearness. Even,
however, if we are compelled to relegate this particular case
to the domain of telepathy, it remains sufficiently remarkable.
There are, however, other cases which it is extremely
difficult to explain by telepathy. The following is, perhaps, the
most striking. A friend of Dr. Pagenstecher, then in Japan,
sent by hand, to a lawyer in Mexico City, an envelope con-
taining a letter to Dr. Pagenstecher and two sealed envelopes.
The letter stated that one of the sealed envelopes contained a
paper written under circumstances of great emotion, and the
other a description of the supposed writer. The letter requested
Dr. Pagenstecher to submit the first to Senora Z. and not to
permit either to be opened until the close of the sitting.
These directions were comphed with, and both Dr. Pagen-
stecher and Dr. Prince were present at the sitting. Senora Z.
described a ship, at night : there were many people on board,
frightened : the language spoken was English, and people were
putting on life-preservers. She described in some detail a
man with a scar over the left eyebrow, tearing out a leaf from
a Uttle book, writing on it, and after the sound of an explosion,
putting it in a bottle and throwing it in the sea.
When the seals were broken, in the presence of Dr. Prince
and Dr. Pagenstecher, the following facts, till then unknown
to all present, were disclosed. The envelope submitted to
Senora Z. contained a slip of paper, apparently torn from a
pocket-book, with words iu Spanish hastily written on it, of
which the following is a translation :
The ship is sinking
Farewell my Luisa ; see •
that my children do not
forget nie your
Ramon.
•
Havana
May God care for you
and me also farewell.
Feb., 1924. Dr. Pageiistccher' s Experiments in Psychometry. 219'
This writing had been found in a bottle, picked up off the
coast of the Azores. From enquiries made at Havana, it
appeared that a gentleman, who for political reasons passed
there imder the assumed name of Ramon P., disappeared in
1916. His handwriting closely resembled that of the paper
found in the bottle, and he had a wife. Luisa, and children.
He was supposed to have left Havana for Europe, and was
beheved by his wife to have perished when the Lusitania
was sunk. In physical appearance, including the scar, he
closely resembled the description given by Senora Z.
Even in this case, of course, it is not absolutely impossible
that the facts, as known or believed by the gentleman then
in Japan, had been transmitted to Senora Z. telepathically,
but in the particular circumstances such an explanation seems
rather far-fetched.
We regret that space will not permit of our quoting further
instances. Senora Z., whatsoever the precise nature of her
powers, is clearly a most remarkable medium. We recommend
our readers to study carefully her case as presented in the
two volumes of the Proceedings of the American Society.
NOTES OX PERIODICALS.
PsychiscJie Studien for Xovember has an account by Dr. von
Schrenck-Xotzing on the International Congress at Warsaw, and
the continuation of the report of the Brody poltergeist case from
the October issue. The December number of the same journal
contains an article by Dr. Ludwig on the position of Roman
Catholics to parapsychology ; a paper by General Peter on psychic
photography, and the continuation of Dr. Walther Kroner's
protocols concerning certain experiments in medical clairvoyance.
The Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research
for January appears in slightly new format and contains a long
series of articles. Dr. Murphy gives a short account of the
Congress, with summaries of some of the papers. Dr. Walter
Prince prints four separate cases, two of which he classes as
possibly premonitory in nature, although the evidence is, as he
admits, not of a very impressive character. The Editor con-
tributes another account of one of his sittings for mental pheno-
220 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1924.
mena, in which the. originality of the treatment illustrates a
rather novel method of handling such material.
In the January issue of The Nineteenth Century, Sir Oliver
Lodge discusses " Our Outlook on the Universe " from the point
of view of one convinced in the soundness of the evidence for
survival. To suppose that the Universe is but meaningless and
futile is, according to Sir Oliver, a blasphemous supposition, and
thus the life of man may be something more than a gradual
progression towards extinction. Modern views in physics appear
to lighten the difficulties of the acceptance of a supposed " spiri-
tual body," and the author concludes that human life cannot
fail to be assisted by the broader conceptions engendered by a
wider outlook of the Universe as a whole and of man's place
therein.
The Scientific American for December has a detailed account
of the recent sittings held with the American medium, Jose
Stewart. The attention of the Committee had been called to
this medium by Sir A. C. Doyle, who had been shown a number
of affidavits, and who affirms that many thousands of people
have tested and fully endorsed Mrs. Stewart's alleged power.
The phenomena consist in the production of messages written
in ink, purporting to be supernormal and to be produced by the
spirits of deceased persons. As the messages are produced upon
cards supplied by the investigators, the easiest way of producing
the phenomena fraudulently is to exchange the cards, although
this is not absolutely necessary. The Committee's findings are
that the cards were so exchanged, those upon which writing
appeared being longer, greyer, thinner, and with a more mottled
texture than those supplied by the investigators. Sir Arthur's
reply to the decision of the Committee is that if it is correct,
Mrs. Stewart must be the champion prestidigitateur of the world,
and that spiritualists must be slow before accepting the result.
E. J. D.
No. CCCCIII.—Vol. XXI. March, 1924.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
NOTICE OF MEETING. .
"
-
A'
PRIVATE MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER AT
DENISON HOUSE
296 VAUXHALL BRIDGE ROAD, S.W.
( Close to Victoria Station ),
On MONDAY, APRIL 7th, 1924, at 4.30 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" Some Recent Sittings in Paris with the Medium
Guzik
"
WILL BE READ BY
Sir OLIVER LODGE, F.R.S.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission will be issued for tliis Meeting.
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names
at the door.
222 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mar., 1924.
NEW MEMBEKS.
Elected Janmry 22nd, 1924.
Bradley, H. Dennis, Dorincourt, Kingston Vale, London, S.W. 15.
Breaker, Geo. H., Houston, Texas, U.S.A.
Cheers-Chaloner, G., 18 The Vale, Golders Green, London, N.W.
Cotton, Dr. Thos. F., 6 Sloane Square, London, S.W. 1.
Cozens-Hardy, The Rt. Hon. Lord, 7 New Square, Lincoln's Inn,
London, W.C.
Dingwall, Miss E., 5 Trewartha Park, Weston-super-Mare.
Johnston, Mrs., Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Gouldsmith, Mrs., The Bungalow, Shanklin, I. of W.
Grinling", Mrs., Fairfield, Harrow Weald, Middlesex.
Grinling, D. G., Fairfield, Harrow Weald, Middlesex.
Langelaan, H. H., Honiton, Devon.
JEleded February Uth, 1924.
McWharrie, Niel Matheson, Montreal, Canada.
Wood, Rev. James L., 912 South 48th Street, Philadelphia, Penn.,
U.S. A
Uleded March 6th, 1924.
Barton, Glynn, 12 New Cavendish Street, London, W. 1.
Barton, Mrs. Glynn, 12 New Cavendish Street, London, W. 1.
Brock, Mrs. A., 66 Queen's Gardens, London, W. 2.
Fairfax, Mrs., 2 Weymouth Street, Portland Place, London, W. 1.
Morris, Mrs. Alfred, 4 Cadogan Square, London, S.W. 1.
Winchilsea, Edith, Countess of, Dower House, Ewerby, Sleaford,
Lines.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 205th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C, on Tuesday, January 22nd, 1924, at
3 p.m. ; Mr. J. G. Piddington in the chair. There were also
present : Mr. E. N. Bennett, the Hon. Everard Feilding, Sir
Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mr. W. Whately
Smith, and Dr. V. J. WooUey ;
also, Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Mar., 1924. Meetings of the Council. 223
Eleven new Members were elected. Their names and
addresses are given above.
The 206tli ^Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Ta^dstock
Square, London, W.C., on Thursday, January 31st, 1924, at
2.30 p.m. ; Mr. J. G. Piddington in the chair. There were
also present : The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour, Sir Wilham Barrett,
Sir George Beilby, 3Ir. E. N. Bennett, the Hon. Everard
Feilding, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., ]\Iiss M. Radclyfie-Hall,
]\Ir. W. H. Salter, 3Ir. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
and Dr. V. J. WooUey ;
also, Mr. E. J. Dingwall. Research
Officer, and 3Iiss Isabel Xewton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
The Report of the Council for the year 1923 was considered
and approved as amended.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication.—The Rt. Hon.
Gerald ^Y. Balfour, Sir William Barrett, Sir Ohver Lodge,
Dr. T. ^Y. Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. W. H. Salter,
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, 3Ir. W. Whately Smith, and Dr. V. J.
WooUey.
Library Committee.—The Hon. Everard Feilding, Dr. T. W.
MitcheU, Mrs. Salter, and Dr. V. J. WooUey.
Research Committee.—Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William
Barrett, Mr. E. N. Bennett, the Hon. Everard FeUding, Mr.
W. H. Salter, ^s. W. H. Salter, and Dr. V. J. WooUey.
House and Finance Committee.—Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mr. W.
H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, and Dr.
V. J. WooUey.
The 207th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, W.C., on Thursday, January 31st, 1924, immediately
after the Annual General Meeting of the Society ; Mr. J. G.
Piddington in the chair. There were also present : Mr. W. W.
Baggally, the Rt. Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, Mr. E. N. Bennett,
the Hon. Everard Feilding, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr.
W. H. Salter, Mrs. Henry Sidg-wick, and Dr. V. J. WooUey
;
A -2
224 Joiirnal of Society for Psychical Research. Mar., 1924.
also, Mr. E. J. Dingwall, Eesearch Officer, and Miss I. Newton,
Secretary.
Mr. J. G. Piddington was elected President of the Society
for the year 1924.
Mr. W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Treasurer, Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick and Mr. W. H. Salter were elected Hon. Secretaries ;
Dr. V. J. WooUey was elected Hon. Research Officer ; Mrs. W. H.
Salter was re-elected Hon. Editor ; and Messrs. Miall, Wilkins,
Avery and Co. were re-elected Auditors for the current year.
Corresponding Members and Hon. Associates were elected for
the year 1924, the names of Dr. Geley, Professor Oesterreich,
and Mr. Carl Vett being added to the list of Corresponding
Members.
The 208th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Thursday, February 14th, 1924, at
3.15 p.m. : The . President in the chair. There were also
present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir Wilham Barrett, Mr. E. N.
Bennett, Sir Lawrence Jones, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J. WooUey ; also Mr. E. J. Dingwall,
Research Officer, and Miss I. Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
On the President's proposal, a very cordial vote of thanks
was passed to the anonymous donor of the Seance Room for
his recent donation of £150 to the Society.
The 209th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W., on Thursday; March 6th, 1924, at 3.15
p.m. : The President in the chair. There were also present
:
Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mr. E. N. Bennett, Sir Lawrence Jones,
Sir Ohver Lodge, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mrs.
-- Henry Sidgwick, Mr. W. Whately Smith, and Dr. V. J.
WooUey ; also Mr. E. J. Dingwall, Research Officer, and Miss
Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were
read and signed as correct.
Mar., 1924. Annual General Meeting of Members. 225
The IVIinutes of the Annual General Meeting were read and
signed as correct.
Six new members were elected Their names and addresses
are given above.
The follo\\dng were co-opted as Members of the Council for
the year 1924 : Sir George Beilby, Dr. WiUiam Brown, Miss
Radclyffe-Hall, Mr. W. Whately Smith, and Dr. Maurice Wright.
Mr. E. J. Dingwall was re-appointed Research Officer.
The Monthly Accounts for February, 1924, were presented
and taken as read. .
•
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS.
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was
held at 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C., on Thursday,
January 31st, 1924, at 3.30 p.m. ; Sir Lawrence Jones,
Bart., in the chair. The following Members were present
:
Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour, Sir George
Beilby, Mr. E. N. Bennett, Mrs. E. Kenneth Campbell, Miss
Cotterell, Mrs. K. C. Creasy, Mr. E. J. Dingwall, Mrs. Ding-
wall, the Hon. Everard Feilding, Mrs. Fernald, Mrs. Frith,
Miss Boucher James, Miss Jephson, Mrs. Kingsley, Mr. E. P.
Larken, Susan Countess of Malmesbury, Mr. G. T. Pilcher,
Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. H. Price, Miss Radclyffe-Hall,
Mrs. Sydney Rothschild, Mr. W. H. Salter, Miss Scatcherd,
m. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mr. W. S. Mont-
gomery Smith, Mr. J. St. Loe Strachey, Rev. C. D. Thomas,
(Una) Lady Troubridge, Miss Wills, and Dr. V. J. WooUey.
The Chairman presented the Report of the Council. Dr.
V. J. Woolley read the Report to the Meeting ; and discussion
was invited.
The Hon. Treasurer (Mr. W. H. Salter) in presenting the
Financial Statement for the year said that although the balance
in hand stood at £779 this actually represented the dona-
tion of £510 for the building of the Seance Room, and also
included the sum of £250 realised by the sale of one of the
Society's securities which was awaiting re-investment ; so that
taking this into consideration the Society had actually just met
its expenses. A very high proportion of the total income was
expended in printing ; the printers' accounts for the year
226 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mar., 1924.
having amounted to £963. He hoped that this year it would
be possible to lower the printing expenses, especially with
the help of Lord Dunraven's generous donation. The loss in
membership referred to in the Keport was not due to excessive
resignations or excessive deaths but to the fact that during
the last year fewer new members had been elected. This
was partly because the Society was no longer electing Associates.
In view of this it would be necessary to restrict printing,
and therefore an increase in membership was desirable.
Kev. C. D. Thomas said he would be very glad of the
opportunity to make a few remarks bearing upon the Price-
Hope case.
Although it was eighteen months since the publication in
the Journal of a charge of dishonesty certain results remained,
and all agreed that the remaining results were deplorable. He
knew both of the bitter feelings that had been experienced and
also the sense of injustice that had been felt. And in con-
sequence the Society was now severely limited, at least for the
time being, in any further attempts to solve the problem as to
how are obtained what are termed " extras " in photography.
Many members who unfortunately found themselves seriously
at variance with the Council in the Price-Hope case, regretted
that it was not possible at the present time to arrange any
sittings with the Crewe Circle. But human nature being what
it was, he felt that such investigation was for the present at
least out of the question.
In reviewing the Price-Hope case Mr. Thomas offered as
his personal opinion about it the remark that in addition
to the initial mistake in backing up with all the prestige of
the Society the verdict of a private member, it seemed to
him that the Council was unhappy in the subsequent decision.
First, to withhold for six months all information relating to
the circumstances in which one of the missing plates had come
into its possession, and keeping secret the facts of the two
anonymous parcels ;
and, secondly, to refuse the request for a
joint inquiry into all the details of the charge, so that there
was the unedifying spectacle of the Council acting the double
part of accuser and of judge and refusing to submit their case
to a jury. Possibly the Council as such might have had very
Mar., 1924. Anntiol General Meeting of Members. 227
little to do with the matter, but left these matters to its Research
Officer and its editorial Committee, but the Council did as a
whole make itself responsible for the action of those officers.
To the first part of his report^ he had nothing to add, but
the second part contained clues which it had been his hope
the Council would at once follow up and so discover the
identity of the sender of those anonymous parcels. This was
detective Avork, and so far as he had been informed they had
taken no steps in the matter.
He had detected what he thought was a slip in the criticism
of his report in the Journal for January, 1924, where it was
suggested (p. 196) that the unknown person at the College
might have read the notice in the Journal for March, 1922,
and known that the S.P.R. might be a good place to send the
incriminating matter. The anonymous parcel was received on ith
March, and the Journal usually came out later in the month.
Mr. Salter, dealing with Mr. Thomas' last point, said that
the Journal for March, 1922, came out between the 21st and
27th of that month, that is after the first anonymous packet
had been sent and before the second. Mr. Dingwall had,
however, long before Mr. Price's sitting, been trying to obtain
sittings with Mr. Hope and Mrs. Deane, and this fact was well
known, so that the argument that the interest of the Society
in spirit-photography was known at the College before the first
anonymous packet was despatched was fully justified.
The discussion was continued by Mr. Piddington, who
assured Mr. Thomas that the Council as a body had gone very
fully into the case, and by Mr. Dingwall, who denied that
the breaking off of negotiations for sittings with the Crewe
Circle was in any way due to the Price-Hope report ; while
still in America he had made persistent ei5orts to arrange for
sittings with Mr. Hope, and had invariably been put off with
one excuse or another. He had been engaged for some time
in going into reports of sittings with the Crewe Circle com-
municated by Members and Associates, and hoped to print
two or three cases at an early date.
i\Iiss ScATCHERD said she was glad to hear this, and affirmed
her belief in the genuineness of Mr. Hope's powers.
iSee Jour. Jan. 1924.
228 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mar., 1924.
Sir Lawrence Jones, in closing the discussion, said that,
quite apart from Mr. Price's report, suspicious facts regarding
Mr. Hope had been brought to the notice of himself and other
Members of Council. He would remind the meeting that
arguments as to the anonymous packets rested merely on
inference. What was important was Mr. Price's direct testi-
mony that he had marked the slide into which the plates
were put, and had found that the slide used for the exposure
was unmarked, and that he had seen Mr. Hope make a move-
ment apparently designed to cover the substitution of one
shde for another. At their last Annual Meeting Mr. Price
had demonstrated the effectiveness of his method of marking.
CONVERSAZIONE.
A Conversazione was held for Members and Associates and
friends in the Society's Rooms at 31 Tavistock Square, London,
W.C., on Thursday, February lith, 1924, at 4 p.m. Tea was
provided between 4 and 5 o'clock. The new Seance Room
was on view ; and later in the afternoon Sir William Barrett
spoke of some of his experiences in psychical research, and
Mr. Dingwall gave an interesting account of his recent visits
to Copenhagen and Paris, and of his sittings with the medium
Einer Nielsen in Copenhagen and with Erto in Paris.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 165th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Steinway Hall, Wigmore Street, London, W. 1, on Thursday,
March 6th, 1924, at 5 p.m. ; The President in the chair.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., read a paper entitled " Argu-
ments for and against Survival " (a discussion between Pro-
fessor Charles Richet and Sir Ohver Lodge, F.R.S. ), which
will be published later in the Proceedings.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR 1923.
Members of the Society will be aware that we have from time
to time during the past year urged upon them the advantages
that would accrue if the Society possessed a special room
Mar., 1924. Annual Report of the Council. 229
devoted to experimental work and in particular to .seances
with mediums. We are glad to be able to report that this
object is now accomplished, mainly o\viug to the generosity
of an anonymous donor, a Member of the Society, who has
presented us \vith the sum of £510, a sum which covers the
whole cost of building the new room. We have in addition
received donations from many other Members of the Society,
amounting to a considerable sum —£100 each from two Members
and nearly £190 in smaller donations—which will provide a
useful fund towards the necessary equipment of the new room,
the cost of the work which we hope to carry out there, and
other expenses. We take this opportunity of thanking all
those who have made special contributions to the Society's
funds during the past year, and we welcome the proof of con-
fidence in the Society's future which these contributions afford.
The new seance room, which is built out on the ground
floor over the yard at the back of the Society's premises, will,
it is expected, be shortly ready for use.
Having now the prospect of a suitable room for experi-
mental work, we have entered into negotiation with several
mediums, who provisionally have consented to submit them-
selves to our investigation.
While the work of the Research Department of the Society
shows no strildng feature for 1923, much work has been
done and many minor experiments have taken place. On
February 23rd the Research Officer went to Gorefield, near
Wisbech, to make enquiries into the alleged poltergeist dis-
turbances which were reported as occurring in the house of a
local farmer. Much assistance was given in the case by the
Rev. J. H. Rutter, Vicar of Grorefield ; but the disturbances
had ceased when the Research Officer, Mr. Dingwall, arrived,
and all that could be done was to obtain interviews with
the principal witnesses and compare the accounts received.
It appeared that the phenomena centred round the person
of a young girl. No convincing evidence was obtained that
the occurrences were in any way supernormal ; but later
accounts, received after Mr. Dingwall left the village, suggest-
ing that the child had been observed producing " phenomena "
in a normal way were equally without real confirmation.
230 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mar., W2i.
During the early part of the }'ear the Society received
some reports concerning the phenomenon of glossolaly as
observed in the medimnship of Mrs. Olive S. Wright. Mr.
Dingwall attended a sitting with Mrs. Wright, and in ]\Iay
a seance was at her request arranged at the rooms of the
Society. As Mrs. Wright desired that persons acquainted
with certain African languages said to be spoken by her
whilst in trance should be present at the sitting, some members
of the School of Oriental Studies were invited. Several
linguists, including Professor Alice Werner, accepted ; and
dictaphone records were taken of the voices. The reports
were to the effect that except for a few words the sounds
were unintelligible ; and no conversation was successful with
the " communicators."
In the spring of 1923 arrangements were concluded between
the Research Committee and the representatives of Mr. Hope
for an early investigation by the Society of his claims as a
"spirit'" photographer, and this was announced in the Journal
for May, 1923. Mr. Hope, however, as announced in the
Journal for July, 1923, refused to accept the conditions agreed
to by his representatives.
With regard to the Report on Mr. Harry Price's experiment
with Mr. Hope, printed in the Society's Journal for May, 1922,
the only new considerations submitted to us during the past
year were contained in a detailed criticism of the case by one
of our members, the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas. This criticism
was carefully considered by the Research Committee, and an
abstract by Mr. Drayton Thomas of his statement together
with a reply drawn up by the Research Committee is printed
in a recent number of the Journal (Jan.. 1924). The
conclusion to which the Research Committee came was that
the arguments put forward by Mr. Drayton Thomas did not
in any material way affect the e\ddence obtained by Mr.
Price.
It is a matter of regret to the Council that it has not so
far been possible to conduct any systematic investigation
of the phenomena of Mr. Hope. We desire to call attention
to the fact that Mr. H. W. Pugh's generous offer of a sub-
stantial sum towards the expenses of such an investigation
Mai;., 1924. Annual Report of the Council. 231
is still open, and to say that so far as concerns the Society
we should be glad to avail ourselves of it at any time.
The Research Officer has investigated and is still making
enqmries into a number of cases of alleged psychic photo-
graphy submitted to the Society by various persons. Should
the general results be of sufficient interest a report "will be
issued. In one case the Society has been indebted to a
member for sending in at intervals during the year a fully
docmnented series of attempts at psychic photography in her
home circle. Certain of the results show markings not easily
explicable and it is hoped that the investigation will be con-
tinued.
During the year the Council placed a room at the disposal
of Mr. Price and Dr. Woolley for the investigation of the
phenomena observed with the medium known as ]\Iiss Stella C.
Unfortunately after the second sitting, at which incidents of
some interest took place, the investigation could not be con-
tinued owing to the medimn having entered into employment
which prevented her from devoting the necessary time to the
work.
As regards other physical phenomena a number of experi-
ments have been made under various conditions, mostly with
private mediums. Through the kindness of an Associate a
series of sittings was carried on, chiefly at the rooms of the
Society, with a yoimg lady under her charge. The phenomena
consist mainly of raps and movements of objects apparently with-
out contact. It is hoped that a further series of sittings
will be arranged.
The Warsaw Congress in August and September gave further
opportunities for enquiry into physical phenomena occurring
\nth weU-known Continental medimns. The delegate of the
Society, jMr. Dingwall, had sittings with the Pohsh mediums,
Jan Guzik, Stanislaw Z , and .]. F . In the case of
the last named certain " teleplastic formations were observed
similar to those observed with Eva C. and Stanislawa P.
We hope to have further opportunities of investigating this
medium.
The Congress was held imder the auspices of the Polish
National Committee, in the premises of the University of
1
00
CO
,-1 rH
O O O :^ ^ (M CI 20 cr. GO r--
O o — r- o « r-i
CO oo
o to
i-i
a c: 1-1 CO I OCO
OO
COM
o
p .
-
P3
nil
ts>~S
ass
a
p-l
S.£;.3
"2
O.S
MP
J2
3
o 5
P g m
a <uJS
a> to
O cS
h3 ° cot;
- -r^ ^ ^ ^
0^
"33 3
c
'S
O
. - O bC CD
4J '2
3 oP ^%
o coo -jO
o ooo o
H
-O i^t' TO
,-( WOI CD t>
.9 . & ,
— M
o
rH CI
3 feS^'^s-:
/yj J—i
^ O)
R-4 4^ —I
3
g « t; O O
_5g5 a c
05 tfJ
„>
a =^
ay
P 3
^ 9
J o o
3 2 2 3 o.H c 9
3*^ S o
1= ,
-3
3 3
M- .-8 3
3 1/}
OJ CS
.=pm
i-i e3 M
"3
M
00 ri o o o o oo -H o o -t^ 0 o o
i~ oil CO.OTl'-'^ CO 1-^
O^ o
1-1
—
^
00
o ^-^^ cOo
X o ^ o
o
o
£2,840
in-
c X 7] :
I-H CI U-^ t> ^
T-H r-i r
CJ CI O -
•il ^ O r
a! (M CO
CI Ol Ol
o^o o
1^ O (M
i-H
i-O X Ttl
o o
M3j
« S O 0)
03
ffl
3 s
33 _
fill
cs.2 S
£ 0 o
o ca 3
,
ff, K e
O ^
o = ca
xOi-la)
,
SP
-1 3
.3 o p
^ 'P 3
mO Si "
•3ocS«5
.2 3 ^ UK!
i ca
g =C5^
r;^: o
P'SiJ 2 S
cala'-Sri
o p: ^
~
O 3 i-i ^,
0.2
r/20MM
.2
2'
^ 3
.1
o
-a
o
5^ 5 ^
n aoi o
m
i-l
m
m
<
O
ft
<
Pi
o
1
a
,5^
^ M 5
5 £ ce o = o
; cd;
C3 «
O
o
c
o
"-I " IM
, - - . .^(^2-
,^ 35 p4 _g ^ g
3 =s
S o-~2^ =
o ^ •
OOOOOt-iOOOOOO
O0OO00OOC5O0~
iit <iH zn
C ' o
M = 5 o
&33
0) r
c a: c5 QJ w
03
= = s
-3 -fi O
MO
3 f
? — ^
3 3,^
" i'
o c
oo
o o
o ci
C —
ax
o
I—J w
0 0+^ • —
ci ;3 '-S •
-
o
" cs
;
Ki
— O Cl '
o "j:; o:
73 « " .
-4-3
5 S S _
O) s o
o o
o o
O O CT 30
"
O O O lO ^
51 w S
o o in
O O r-i
1-1
o o
^ CO
=3 S
O ^
o s
S O) eS
o lo
C<1
O CO
>
s rH
o
-(^
CO
O
^ 3
CO
:3
C35
CO
•a
o
u
•a
a
S S
^ IT.
0) -
o
<:5
5 o
J3
s
d
o
S
o
234 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, imar., vyi\.
WarsaA\'. It was attended not only by delegates from |
Societies interested in psycliical researcli but also by members
of the public. Among those ])resent were Baron von Schrenck-
Notzing, Dr. William Mackenzie, Mr. Fritz Grunewald, Dr.
Gustave Geley, Dr. Sydney Alrutz, Dr. Gardner Murphy, Dr.
D. I. F. Brugmans. A number of papers were read and
proposals discussed, a list of which has already been printed
in the Journal. M. Ossowiecki, a non-professional clairvoyant,
submitted to some experiments with certain members of the
Congress and succeeded in describing correctly part of the
contents of an opaque envelope prepared by Mr. Dingwall.
A good prima facie case appears to have been made out,
and further investigation is eminently desirable.
Experiments in thought-transference were carried on regularly
during the greater part of the year by Miss Newton and
others, at first with one percipient only (a member of the
Society who has shown indications in dreams of possessing
some telepathic faculty), and later with several percipients
together. The object of the experiments was not so much to
increase the evidence for telepathy as to try to obtain the
kind of evidence that may throw light on the conditions
under which telepathy is most likely to operate. Bearing in
mind the generally inhibitory effect of anxiety, or of too much
conscious attention, on the emergence of subconscious ideas in
automatic writing and other automatisms, the experimenters
aimed at eliminating this condition, and conducted the experi-
ments informally in the Secretary's room, increasing the number
of percipients so that no one should feel specially responsible.
The experiments were varied to test certain suggestions arising
from the pubhshed Cross-correspondences (for example, the
question whether the existence in the percipient's mind of
knowledge relating to the agent's idea may have any bearing
upon thought-transference) ; and from Mr. Hubert Wales' report
in Part 80, and from Mrs. Henry Sidgwick's Papers in Parts
8() and 89 of Proceedings. The results so far, though promis-
ing, do not warrant definite conclusions. The experiments are
being continued in the hope that from a large accumulation
of results some light on the process and conditions of tele-
pathy may be derived. It is also hoped that by means of
Mak., 1'J24. Annual Beport of the Council. 235
these iufonnal experiments we may find among those of our
members who are -wdlUng to take part in them some who
possess distinct telepathic faculty, and that later a series of
experiments may be carried out under test conditions, with
the percipient, or percipients, in one room and the agent, or
agents, in another. The new seance room and the adjoining
room be admirably suited for this purpose.
A series of long-distance experiments in telepathy was con-
ducted from London vnih a member in Devonshire. There
has been one complete success, but as the circumstances
became unfavourable the experiments have been temporarily
suspended.
The Council thank all who have taken part in the various
experiments, and would gladly welcome others who are wilUng
to help in this way.
We are indebted to several of our members for reports
of evidence obtained through sittings with mediums and in
other ways. In particular the Kev. W. S. Irving has regularly
sent us extracts from his notes of sittings with Mrs. Osborne
Leonard, Mrs. Brittain and Mr. Vout Peters. The notes
received from Mr. Irving and others include a number of
statements made by supposed communicators in regard to
difficulties which appear to arise in getting what they wish to
say correctly recorded. AVe hope that by collecting and
comparing a considerable number of such statements we may
be able to throw some fight on the modus operandi in medium-
istic trance, a branch of research in which at present little
has been done. We shall be glad to receive any further
repoi'ts our members can send us.
In its Annual Report the Council has sometimes taken
occasion to point out that the number of Members and Associ-
ates actively co-operating in the work of the Society, appeared
undidy small. It is pleasing to be able this year to thank
members for an unusual amount of help in various ways.
Reference has already been made above to some of this help,
but we may further refer to the fact that a good many
members have brought to our Officers records of sittings
either in their own private circles, or ^vith Mrs. Osborne
Leonard and other known mediums. These records are often
236 Journal of Society for Psychical ResearcJi. Mau., 1924.
of an exceedingly private and personal character and we are
grateful for the confidence shown in allowing our Officers to
see them. Other members have taken great trouble in re-
cordiug experiences of their own or in reporting cases they
hear of. E\'idence thus received is printed in the Journal
when it comes up to a sufficient evidential standard and when
it is not too private. But what cannot be printed is not
therefore valueless. It can be of real use in giving our
Officers greater experience of and insight into the phenomena
to be investigated, and in supporting or throwing light on
cases whose veridicality can be made evidential. Moreover,
experiments and spontaneous experiences which begin with
Kttle clear evidence of the occurrence of anything supernormal
sometimes develop into valuable cases.
In addition to help of this kind and in providing material
for investigation, Ave have, as already mentioned, received
very important assistance in money from Members and Associ-
ates, whieli \Adll greatly facilitate our work and, as far as it
goes, enable us, without stinting this, to meet the expense of
printing, which is still very much higher than it used to be.
At the request of some of our members an English trans-
lation has been published, and can be obtained from the
Secretary, of Monsieur CamiUe Flammarion's Presidential
Address. The Address was read in English by Sir W. F.
Barrett, F.R.S., at a Meeting of the Society in June last, and
was pubUshed in the Proceedings (Part LXXXIX.) in the original
French. The Council take this opportunity of expressing their
thanks to M. Flammarion for the honour he did the Society
in accepting the Presidency.
Our Members will be interested to hear that we have
entered into an arrangement with Lord Dunraven for the
publication of his privately printed " Experiences in Spiritual-
ism with D. D. Home " as a Part of the Proceedings. This
book containing contemporaneous records was privately printed
more than fifty years ago and is an outstanding contribution
to the study of one of the most remarkable mediums in
history, and we are sure that members of the Society will
welcome the opportunity of possessing it. The Part will,
of course, be circulated to members in the usual way, and
i\iAR., 1924. Annual Report of the Council. - ' 237
will also be on sale to the public at a moderate price. We
are indebted to Lord Dunraven, not only for permission to
publish this important work, but also for a generous con-
tribution towards the expense of printing it. The volume is
expected to appear in the spring.
Permission has been given to Monsieur Rene Sudre to trans-
late into French and pubhsh IVIrs. Sidgwick's recent paper on
"Phantasms of the Living." (Proc. S.P.R. Part 86).
The amount reahsed by the sale of the Proceedings and
Journal at half-price to members is smaller than that in the
preceding year, no complete sets having been sold. On the
other hand, there has been an increase in the sales to the
pubhc through our London Agent : and the total amount
received for publications is about the same as in 1922.
On the death in March of the Society's tenant, Sir Ernest
Clarke, the Society came into jiossession in June of the upper
part of the house at 31 Tavistock Square, and it became
necessary to find a new tenant. We are glad to report that
the apartments in question are now let on a seven years'
lease. Our grateful thanks are again due to Mr. Sydney C.
Scott for carrying out all the legal business involved free of
charge.
Dr. WilUam Brown, D.Sc, has been co-opted as a Member
of Coimcil dming the past year. Dr. Brown is well known
both as a psycho-therapeutist and as Wilde Reader in Mental
Philosophy at the University of Oxford, and we feel that the
Society is to be congratulated on enhsting his active support.
We have to record wdth regret the death of several Members
and Associates of long standing. These include Miss Ridley
(elected in 1882, the year of the Society's foundation), J\Ir.
Oscar Browning, Mr. H. R. Hogg, Sir Henry Babington Smith
(at one time a Member of Council), Lady Francis Cecil, Mr.
J. C. Sheets, the Earl of Carnarvon, and Miss Lily Dougall.
Among more recent members we have lost Colonel C. E.
Baddeley and Major Spencer, to both of whom the Society
has been indebted for assistance in its work.
Eleven Members and sixteen Associates (including one
Honorary Associate) have died during the year ; the names
of fourteen Members and twelve Associates have been struck
238 Journal of Society for Psychical ResearcJi. Mar., 1924.
ofi the lists owing to non-payment of subscriptions. The
total number of resignations during the past year has been
thirty-two Members and twenty-two Associates, of w^hom a
considerable number state that they are resigning with regret
for financial reasons, and some express a hope that they may
rejoin later.
Fifty-seven new Members and one Corresponding Member
have been elected and seven Associates have become Members.
The total membership of the Society now stands at 1,155,
of whom 557 are Members and 598 Associates.
AVhile on this subject we may remind Members that any
one who can introduce a new Member thereby increases both
our income and the field from which our material is drawn.
The increased accommodation afforded by the Society's present
premises makes it more convenient than it was at Hanover
Square to hold informal Meetings and Conversaziones. Some
use has already been made of these increased facilities.
Three Parts of Proceedings were published during the year :
Part 87 in March, Part 88 in July, and Part 89 in October.
Four Meetings of the Society and a Conversazione were
held during the year :
February 7th. A Conversazione. On this occasion a short
paper on " The Subconscious Mind " by Mr. A. D.
Graham, and a report of a recent " Book-test " by Mr.
Kimber were read.
May 11th. " Hindrances and Comphcations in Telepathic
Phenomena by Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
^ June 26th. " Presidential Address " by M. Camille Flam-
marion. (Read by Sir William Barrett in an English
translation.)
October 24th. " A Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena " by
Mrs. Sidney Leaning.
December 13th. "A Report on the International Congress
at Warsaw " by Mr. E. J. Dingwall.
' A General Meeting.
Mab., 1924. Response to the Appeal. 239
EESPONSE TO THE APPEAL. EIGHTH REPORT.
Research.
E. J. DingwaU - - - - - - £10 0 0
E. N. Bennett -500
Miss Lucy Corry - - - - - -110
Mrs. Franks - - - - - - -110
Miss Thomson - - - - - -110
To BE Allocated as the Council Wishes.
Anonymous ------ £150 0 0
Miss Mabel Baker - - - - - -500
Edward Grubb - - - - - -220
Mrs. Franks (Annual) - - - - -110
THE SEANCE ROOM.
It is usually necessary at sittings to arrange for the perform-
ance of music, and, as most of our readers are aware, this
can"' be conveniently done by means of a gramophone. The
purchase of a good instrument would entail a heavy expense,
and before the Society incurs this, we should be glad to know
if any of our members have one which possibly they seldom
xise and which they would be mlling to lend to the Society
for this purpose. The Society would naturally be responsible
ior the instrument and would provide the records.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
The issue of the Revue Metapsychique for November-December
has a continuation of the reports of the sittings with Guzik
at the Institute. Some account is given of the remarkable
materialized animals and " primitive men " said to occur with
this medium. At one time the form was described as a bear's
cub, but now Dr. Geley compares it with other animals, as
for example dogs, squirrels or cats. The same method of
control was adopted as that described upon a former occasion.
The sitters were chained wrist to wrist, but unfortunately the
240 Jotirnal of Society for Psychical Research. mar., 1924.
medium's legs were not automatically controlled, but left to
tlie sitters to touch upon either side. Dr. Geley declares that
the medium remained absolutely motionless, and the complex
movements involved in producing phenomena by means of a
freed leg could not have been made without detection. More-
over, objects appear to have been moved at a distance beyond
the normal reach of the medium. In the same issue Dr.
Geley criticises the report of the Sorbonne Commission published
in L'Opericon for December 21st. The Commission came to the
unanimous conclusion that the phenomena produced by Guzik
in their presence were entirely fraudulent, being due to the
medium's use of his legs, which he prevented his investigators
from effectively controlling. When an automatic control of
Guzik's legs was advised, all the phenomena ceased, a fact
explained away by Di. Geley as due to the medium's health.
Since two sittings were given elsewhere at the same time as
the negative Sorbonne seance with excellent results, the objec-
tion raised by Dr. Geley appears to be hardly valid, and a
further solution must be found. The principal note in the
Sorbonne Commission's report is one of uncertainty. They re-
peatedly insist upon the immense difficulties of controlling the
medium effectively, a fact which appears to have partially
escaped the attention of the Institute in Paris.
The American Journal of Psychology for January has an interest-
ing discussion by Mr. Frank Angell of the horizon-illusion.
Mr. Angell briefly reviews the work hitherto done in this field,
and his report testifies to the varied opinion as to the cause
of the phenomenon. It would seem that such a widespread
and universal illusion, if illusion it be, would be capable of
an explanation, satisfactory in every detail. Yet so far from
this being the case, views are so diverse and the results of
experiments so confficting that the ordinary reader is left with
the impression that the cause of the illusion is still almost
wholly obscure. The discussion is to be continued in the
succeeding number of the Journal. v
"
No. CCCCIV.—Vol. XXI. -
•
Apkil, 1924.
JOURNAL
OF THE .
'
Society for Psychical Research.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A-
GENERAL MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
WILL BE HELD AT THE HOUSE OF
THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF MEDICINE
(IN THE ROBERT BARNES HALL),
I WIMPOLE STREET, LONDON, \V.,
(ENTRANCE IN HENRIETTA STREET),
On THURSDA Y, MA Y m, 1924, ai 5.30 p.m.
Address by the President,
Mr. J. G. PIDDINGTON.
N.B.
—
Alembers and Associates ivill be adinitted on signing their natnes
at the door. Visitors ivill be admitted on production of an
invitation card signed by a Member or Associate. Each Member
or Associate is alloived to i/ivite one friend.
242 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1924.
OBITUARY NOTICES.
James Thompson Hackett.
We have to record, with much regret the death at Luxor on-
March 6th last from heart failure after influenza of Mr. James
Thompson Hackett, B.A., of Melbourne.
Mr. Hackett, who became an Associate of the Society in
1884, was an old personal friend of Dr. Richard Hodgson,,
himself an Australian by birth, whose name is well known tO'
Members of this Society.
Mr. Hackett mil be remembered by many of our Members
as the compiler of an anthology (with numerous explanatory
and critical footnotes) entitled My Commonplace Book, of which
the first edition was piiblished in 1919 and the fourth and
last in December of last year. This book, which, as the
number of editions shows, was widely read and appreciated,
is dedicated to the memory of Richard Hodgson, and Mr.
Hackett has himself recorded that it was largely to his friend-
ship mth Hodgson that he owed the impulse which led to
his only essay in authorship.
Reviews of the book will be found in the Journal (Vol. XIX.,.
p. 143, and Vol. XXI.. p. 184). " -
Mr. Hackett had been either resident in this country or
travelUng in Europe during the last years of his Ufe, and his
kindly personality will be missed by those of us who had the
pleasure of meeting him at the Society's Rooms. We take tliis.
opportimity of expressing our sympathy with Mrs. Hackett.
Severin Lauritzen.
The Society has also lost an old friend in the person of Mr.
Severin Lauritzen, of Copenhagen, who became an Associate
of the Society in 1904 and a Corresponding Member in 1923.
Mr. Lauritzen contributed two cases to the Journal (Vols.
XIV. and XV.) and on several occasions the Society has been
indebted to him for information concerning occurrences of
psychical interest in his part of the world. His good judg-
ment and his sound standard of evidence could always be
reUed on. He took a keen interest in the Society's welfare
and was always ready to help it by any means in his power.
April, 1924. Case. 243
One of his chief contributions to psychical research was a
translation into Danish of Myers' Human Personality.
He was widely known and much hked and respected by his
fellow-citizens, and English visitors to the first International
Congress for Psychical Research, held at Copenhagen in 1922,
will remember the genial welcome and hospitality he and
other members of his family afforded them in his beautiful
country home.
H. de G. S.
CASE.
L. 1253.
We have received from Mr. Charles W. Armstrong, an Associate
of the Society, the following account of an incident which
occurred in January 1923. The first report of the incident
was contained in a letter from Mr. Armstrong to the Editor,
Mrs. Salter, as follows :
Octoher 29th, 1923.
In Dr. Schiller's report of communications received, through
Mrs. Piper by Mrs. Tarrant from her step-father, I noticed the
following words which are significant in connexion with an experi-
ence of my own :
" All the little ones will be cared for if you
have faith. When we see them in danger, we ourselves can interfere
and prevent all hinds of cnlamity."
In January this year I was staying witli my wife and family
in Petropolis, a beautiful health resort in the Organ Mountains
near Rio de Janeiro. On the evening of January 5th, after the
children had gone to bed, my wife and I were dining at a small
table in a corner of the refeitorio of the small hotel in which
we were staying, and it so happened that our table was exactly
under the corner of our bedroom where some of the children were
sleeping. While at dessert, we both heard a tapping just over
our table ;
my wife thought it was done with the knuckles of
the hand on the floor above us, but to me it sounded more like
the tap of a shoe. In any case I attached no importance to it,
but my wife was inexplicably alarmed. She called to the servant
of some other guests, who was standing near us in the doorway,
and asked her where was Theresa, our nurse-girl. The woman
replied that Theresa was dining in the kitchen. Then my wife
244 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1924.
left the table hurriedly and ran upstairs. At first I had smiled
at her evident alarm about a mere nothing, but when she had
gone I felt the same alarm myself, and seemed to expect her
momentarily to call to me from the head of the stairs to come
u-p^quicMy. However, she did not call, so I went up to see what
was the matter. To get at the bedroom one had to go through
our private sitting-room, which, as indeed the whole upper floor,
was at that hour in darkness, for there was nobody upstairs at
all, except the sleeping children. My wife had turned on the
electric light in the bedroom, and I found her very pale, with
drawn face and frightened look, leaning over the youngest child
who began to cry a moment after my entry. This child was
not yet one year old, and my wife told me she had found him
suspended by the neck alone, between two beds which the nurse
should have left toucliing each other, but had carelessly left
slightly apart. The child's feet could not reach the floor as it
hung suspended, and even if they could, as they were bare, they
could not possibly have tapped it. The smaller bed was the one
against the wall, from which it was never removed. The other
was a large double bed, very heavy, which the baby's weight
could not possibly move in the slightest degree. The other
children were all fast asleep, and nobody else was upstairs. The
nurse had not been up for some time. The baby, therefore, had
rolled over in his sleep, and fallen between the two beds, but as
they were too near each other to admit of the passage of his
head, he had remained hanging in that position, (the beds being
together at the head but pidled apart at the foot). He had not
cried, and had apparently lost consciousness. We found marks
on one side of his neck where the iron bedstead had caught him.
These marks were visible for some days. When our relief at
hearing the child cry had somewhat subsided, we asked each
other " Who tapped ?
" To this question we could find no
answer, and nobody to whom I have recounted the incident has
been able to find any but a supernormal answer that could fit
in with all the facts.
A few days after this I wrote to my mother in Liverpool,
narrating the strange occurrence, but without the sequel ; for it
was not until the end of the month of January that my wife
received a letter from her home in Barcelona telling her of the
death of her brother on December 30th. Two other brothers had
April, 1924. Case.
already come out to Brazil, and were and are still working in
Eio de Janeiro. The other was preparing to come and join them
when his illness prevented him. Putting off his journey had been
a keen disappointment to him and he talked of little else, while
ill, than of going to Brazil. January the 5th was also the anni-
versary of my father's death in 1905, but I think this is irrelevant.
Charles W. Armstrong.
I have read the above statement of our experience in Petropolis,
and every incident mentioned I distinctly remember. It is in
every respect in strict accordance with the facts.
Enrica Armstrong
(Mrs. C. W. Armstrong).
In reply to this letter Mrs. Salter wrote to Mr. Armstrong
on November 7th, 1923, and put the following questions :
(1) For how long was the tapping sound heard ?
(2) Was the bed in which the child lay in that part of the
room which was immediately over the restaurant in
which Mr. and Mrs. Armstrong were dining at the time,
or was it far removed ?
(3) Is there any evidence as to whether slight normal sounds
in the bedroom would be easily audible in the restau-
rant ?
(4) Does it seem likely that the sounds could have been
made by the bed rocking and striking either the
floor or the wall of the room ?
In reply to this communication Mr. Armstrong wrote again
to Mrs. Salter, as follows :
. . . Replying to your questions, both my wife and I think it
impossible a rocking of the bed could have caused the tapping
noise we heard, because the sound did not suggest any such cause,
and the bed, being steady, could not have produced any such
taps. The smaller bed was against the wall. It was a full
sized iron bed-stead, and I only referred to it as small in com-
parison with the other which was a double bed. There were
three or four taps in quick succession. If produced intentionally
by a conscious intelligence, no further taps would be needed
because my wife immediately left the table, and indeed was so
alarmed already as to cause me much surprise. The very fact
246 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1924.
of her alarm being out of proportion to the apparent cause
seems to me to demand explanation. She is not easily alarmed
about the children, and does not, as most mothers do, wake in
the night when they cry. The child's bed was over the corner
of the dining-room in which our table was placed. Neither of
us can remember hearing from below slight normal sounds. When
the children romped boisterously we heard, and once I remember
sending to tell them to make less noise. We are both sure the
sounds could not be caused by the bed knocking against the wall.
One other suggested cause I have heard when narrating the
incident, has been that perhaps one of the other children made
the sounds. But the eldest was only five ; all were undressed
and sound asleep in their respective beds. I verified too that the
breathing of all was regular and am certain none of them had
left their beds at all. Besides, they could not have got at that
corner of the room. The room, moreover, was in darkness and
none would get up in the dark.
Personally I am disinclined to believe in the presence here of
the spirits of the departed, but I am at a loss to find any other
explanation of this incident to fit in Avith all the facts. If I
reject the spirit theory I find myself obliged to recognise some
form of second sight or peculiar intuition to account for my
wife's alarm at that moment ; and that leaves the tapping still
unexplained. Charles W. Armstrong.
In reply to a further letter from Mrs. Salter, pointing out
that in the circumstances the supernormal nature of the
sounds could not be considered as definitely established, and
that, if the case w^ere printed in the Society's Journal a note
to this efJect would have to be included in the report, Mr.
Armstrong wrote again to Mrs. Salter, as follows :
December 31st, 1923.
I have to thank you for your favour of 27th inst. I certainly
have no objection to the note you suggest.
I quite see that from the point of view of the Society, the
supernormal cause of the sounds produced cannot be said to be
conclusively proved, and probably, had the incident occurred to
somebody else, I should have been more sceptical on this point
than you are. As it is, I cannot help accepting jjersonally the
supernormal explanation of the sounds as well as the telepathic
April, 1924. Case. 247
explanation of my wife's alarm. But I should be inclined to
think of the telepathy as between the spirit of my wife's brother
and herself and not between the baby and her. I may mention
that I was not and still am not a spiritualist, but am inclined
to think that occasional communication occurs between the
living and the dead. Charles W. Armstrong.
It should be noted that, although I myself at first attached
no importance to the knocking, and was surprised and even
amused at my wiie's alarm, that alarm very quickly came to me
too, with no very evident reason, and I distinctly expected my
wife to call to me to come up quickly. As she did not, I went
upstairs, and I remember it was two steps at a time. C. W. A.
As Mr. Armstrong himself admits, the supernormal nature
<ot the sounds heard by himself and his "nnfe cannot be re-
garded as proved. Indeed, it would seem not unlikely that
the struggles of the child, as it hung between the beds, might
by one means or another—and for a short time—produce
sounds. This interpretation is at any rate so far possible
that from a scientific standpoint we are bound to accept it
on the general principle of preferring the known to the un-
fmown cause. There remains, however, the question of the
•effect which these sounds—presumably slight—had on the
mother in instantly arousing her alarm. The suggestion may
:be put forward that they reinforced and defined in her con-
:sciousness a vague impression, telepathically received, of her
child's danger. It has to be remembered that people are
sometimes extraordinarily sensitive to sounds relating to
matters in which they have a keen personal interest, such as
the interest of a mother in her children. This sensitiveness
may be telepathic in origin or hyperaestlietic. Myers {Human
Personality, vol. ii., p. 517) suggests that " hyperaesthesia . . .
seems sometimes to pass gradually beyond the point which
any sensory influence can be stretched to cover. . We must
then assume at least a minghng of some form of supernormal
acquisition of knowledge ;
telepathy, if we have an agent's
mind already possessed of such knowledge, telaesthesia, if no
such, agent can be suggested."
- A rather similar suggestion will be found in Prof. Gilbert
jMurray's Presidential Address [Proc. S.P.R. vol. xxix, p. 62).
248 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1924,
GLASTONBURY ABBEY. •
lu regard to Dr. H. J. Wilkins's brocliure recently pub-
lished, entitled A further Criticism of the Psychical Claims
concerning Glastonhurij Abbey and the Recent Excavations, a
copy of which, has been received by the Society, Mr. Bligh
Bond, whose work is the subject of criticism, asks us to publish
the foUomng statement. It must, of course, be understood
that the responsibiUty for this statement rests with Mr. Bhgh
Bond:
February 13th, 1924.
A careful perusal of Revd. H. J. Wilkius's work will shew that
the basic arguments on which he seeks to vitiate my conclu-
sions are :
(1) That the length of the standing ruins is by generally ac-
cepted tradition 510 feet (pp. 41, 73).
(2) That the total length as originally existing, given by various
authorities as 580 or 581 feet, was an external measure.
(3) That consequently the missing portion (Edgar Chapel) must
be the difference between these two measures, i.e. 70
or 71 ft. only.
(4) That since the rectangular part of the Edgar Chapel approxi-
mates to 70 ft., this represents all there was, and the further
extension marked with angular walls must be left entirely
out of account as a part of the Abbey.
(5) That the Elizabethan document which states that the length
of the complete building was 594 feet, with a chapel at
the east of 90 feet, may be read as 574 feet, and 70'
feet, respectively, because at that time a 9 was written
like a 7. The original document being lost, Dr. Wilkins
assumes this clerical error as probable.
To these points I reply as follows :
(1) The generally accepted tradition of 510 feet is greatly in
error. Had Dr. Wilkins taken the trouble to obtain the
actual measure of the standing ruins, he would have found
this to be so.
As a practical antiquary, not an armchair critic, I
obtained a certificate of this true measure from an in-
dependent surveyor, and it affirms that the total internal
Apkil, 1924. Glastonbury Abbey. 24&
length of the standing ruins is 493 ft. 6 ins., and the
exterior or extreme length 502 ft. only. This more than
justifies my estimate.
(2) Assuming the traditional total of 580-581 ft. to be, as he
would have it, an over-all measure, this leaves a balance
of 78 or 79 feet for the Edgar Chapel, which is an im-
possible measure under either theory. But if the 580-581
ft. be taken as an internal measure, then the true exterior
measure wUl be found by taking in the thickness of
both end walls and the projection of turrets at the west.
This will bring it well over 590 ft., and near the Eliza-
bethan measure.
(3) The true external measure of length of the standing ruins
being 502 ft., and the further extension of my rectangular
chapel being 66 ft. 6 ins., we should have only 568 ft.
6 ins. over all, which is another absurdity.
(4) This gives a balance still of 13 ft. to be accounted for, if,
as Dr. Wilkins suggests, the total measure of the Sale
Plan, i.e. 581 ft. 6 ins. is an external one. Dr. Wilkins
must meet this fact.
(5) Dr. Wilkins is welcome to his opinion that the figures in
the Elizabethan document have been misread, but he
cannot use such an assumption as a positive argument
for destroying my conclusions. The document being lost,
his theory is quite incapable of proof.
Generally it must be apparent that a man who claims that his
knowledge is so complete on this subject that few if any facts
have escaped him (p. 85) would be expected by his readers to have
ascertained for himself the true length of the ruins instead of
adopting merely reputed measures. Fredk. Bligh Bond.
CORKESPONDENCE.
The Strange and Instructive Case of Mr. " Y." ^
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R. •»
'
'*
Madam,—About a year ago I made, in Berlin, the acquaintance
of a Russian gentleman whom I will call " Y," once a very rich
man, now more or less completely ruined, like so many others.
One day some one happened to mention to me that this " Y "
^ The initials used in the present account are pnrtlij fictitious.
250 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1924.
Tvas a powerful medium, and that various phenomena occurred in
his presence. Having met him I asked him about it.
" Y " admitted that various phenomena, chiefly apports, took
place in his presence, though he apparently did not consider him-
self a " medium " in the strict sense of the word. He objected
to that term being applied to him, because he was never en-
tranced, while other sitters were, but thought himself a kind of
trumpet " (his expression) for the concentration of various
influences emanating from others—the result being chiefly a^jjjoris
in abundance, often coupled with" direct " writing.
The seances, it appears, began in the Crimea three or four years
ago ; then the Crimea had to be left on account of one of the
Bolshevist invasions. They were then continued in Rome, and
later in Berlin, some of the sitters, notably two B. brothers, being
the same as in the Crimea.
I spent one evening at " Y's," and was shown some of the
a^yports. Needless to say there was in these apports nothing
supernormal " so far as their nature was concerned, though
some of them, it is true, had some pretension to be vaguely
demoniacal in origin ! And from the accounts given by " Y
"
as to the manner in which they appeared it became clear that
everything or nearly everything depended not so much on " Y "
himself as on other members of the circle. In justice to " Y it
should be mentioned, however, that he narrated to me two cases
Avhere the phenomena happened when, as he stated, he was
absolutely alone : in one case direct writing, in the other ap>2^ort
of direct writing.
As " Y " was giving at the time, more or less regularly, seances
at Countess X's (a Russian lady) in Berlin, I asked for permission
to attend one sitting.
My imjaression was altogether unfavourable. The seance took
place in total darkness. The sitters were chiefly young people ;
control was almost non-existent ; and the only apport which
occurred and which concerned directly myself was of an extremely
suspicious character.^ The attitude of " Y " was highly credulous
and enthusiastic.
I did aU I could to look as little sarcastic as possible, but
apparently with little success, since I was no more invited to
attend seances in the circle in question.
1 Or rather obvious and transparent trickery.
Apkil, 1924. Correspondence. 251
Meanwhile " Y," when describing to me some of the marvels
produced in his presence in the way of apports, had mentioned
a certain " K," whom I personally knew well, as an eyewitness.
Having met " K," I asked him about these incidents.
" K ''
admitted without difficulty that he had produced the
apports himself ! And he went on to say that '•
Y " was purely
and simply the victim of systematic hoaxing, which had begun
in the Crimea and was now being pursued in Berlin.
He recognised from my description some of the apports I liad
seen at " Y's," and said he had been present when one or two
of them, which, as I said above, seemed to have some pretension
to have a demoniacal origin, were being prepared in view of the
sitting.
" Y " had related to me how when he was taking tea after the
seance, bits of paper inscribed in Turkish (which he showed me)
had been thrust by the spirits into his tea-cup. " K " in con-
versation with me admitted he had done it.
Madame " P," who also took part in the seances, also admitted
to me she had cheated (she used, however, a term less harsh !).
When I again met " Y," he related to me how at a sitting held
-a few days before, a certain Mile. " S," who attended, I believe,
ior the first time, was very much impressed by the apport of an
ash-pan belonging to her family.
The very next day I met Mademoiselle " S's " father, and heard
from him that his daughter had brought the ash-pan to the
seance herself, having been told over the telephone to do so by
her friends, at whose house the seance was taking place.
Anyhow, it became clearer and clearer that the whole thing was
nothing but prolonged hoaxing , the victim of which was a man
probably quite ^ sincere but over-credulous, excessively nervous, and
unable to see the trickery.
At this moment 1 had to leave Berlin and Germany. Before
leaving I thought it my duty to see- "Y" and attempt to
open his eyes. ' •
, .
"
I therefore called on him at his office, and said to him I felt
bound in the interests of truth to teU him that I had very serious
^ I do not however, use the word in an absolute sense. Absolute sincerity
is very rare. I think it likely that "Y" may be sometimes half-conscious
of the truth. But then he will simply smother such inklings. At other
times he may be, of course, altogether convinced of the authenticity of
^he happenings, ^ . .i ,
252 Jotirnal of Society for Psychical Research. Apbil, 1924.
grounds for believing lie was being systematically deceived at liis
sittings.
He flatly refused to attach any importance to my statements,
saying he had been told so before and knew better. And referring
to one particular case (an alleged case of " spirit-identity ") he
exclaimed, " And how can this case be explained ?
"
I answered that I did not have this particular incident in view,
but that " getting up " would from the sceptic's point of view be
no doubt a sufficient explanation.
" Well, I will not believe it, even should I be told so by '
G
'
himself," he retorted, " G " being the young man directly concerned
in this case.
I then dropped the matter, took my leave, and went away.
All this episode seems to me characteristic and instructive
because :
—
(a) We see that most doubtful of all " phenomena," that of
ajJj^oris, breaking down again at the first touch ; no sooner are
they alleged to occur, than they vanish like smoke when looked
into a little more closely.
(b) We see a group of people, some of very good social position,
chiefly though not exclusively young, who find amusement in
systematically deceiving a man without any appreciable motive
!
" Disinterested " deception in this domain seems indeed to be
much more frequent than was once commonly supposed.
(c) We see how it is possible for a credulous man who has been
unlucky enough to fall into the hands of such practical jokers to
believe himself a powerful physical medium, without in the least
being one.
And finally : {d) We have here one more instance of a man
deliberately stopping his ears to an unpleasant truth.
I may add that I once heard poor " Y " making , in substance,
the following statement
:
"Lighting up. a room suddenly at a seance is sheer nonsense,
and will not explain anything. For if the astral body of one of
the sitters (sic) is then producing some phenomenon, surely his
physical body is bound , if the room be lighted unexpectedly, to
rejoin his astral body. It could not be otherwise."
In view of the state of mind revealed by such utterances, and
though believing, or inclined to believe, in a certain, though not
AriuL, 1924. Correspondence. 253
in an altogether, " mathematical sense in " Y"s " good faith and
sincerity, I no more now attach any importance to his accounts
of the very few instances when phenomena occurred in his presence,
while, as he asserted, he was alone.
For there are witnesses (even honest witnesses !) whose evidence
in a certain domain cannot prove anything (an important circum-
stance to bear in mind), and he is ob%TiOUsly one of these.
Brussels, January 1924. Perovsky Petrovo Solovovo.
«
REVIEW.
Das Ziveckgesetz in der Natur, Gnindlinien einer Meta-Mechanik des
Lebens. By Adolf Wagner. Eugen Eentsch, Erlenbach-
Zurich, Munich and Leipzig, 1923. Pp. 301.
Professor Wagner appears to be professor of Biology at the
University of Innsbruck, and his book is a very elaborate and
acute, carefully and closely reasoned refutation of the mechanistic
theory of life. So far from admitting the application of be-
ha\-iouristic materialism to psychology, he refuses to restrict biological
science to the physics and chemistry of living organisms, and
insists on the psychic guidance of all mechanical processes. He
justly points out that in ultimate analysis the very notion of a
mechanism as a contrivance implies a reference to a psychic factor,
and that all the mechanisms we find in nature are subject to
psychic control and demand psychic interpretation. This psychic
factor is conceived as entirely natural and its teleology as immanent.
Professor Wagner's conception comes out well in the following
passage (p. 267) ; Wherever there is life, there is soul. Life is
psychic activity. All life is psychic life. And the law which
controls this peculiar activity is reason. . . . The riddle of
life consists in this that wherever life stirs, Avhether it be in the
drop of water, in the soil, or in the brain of a genius, there
appears a naturally directed subordination of mechanical laws to
a superior law of reason."
We may agree that Professor Wagner's criticism is convincing,
and unanswerably brings out the inadequacy of materialism.
But candour compels us to add that what he does (as has often
been done before) is not enough to eradicate materialism. Its
strength does not lie in its doctrine, but in its method. Its
method, whether or not at a particular time and in a particular
254 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1924.
case it succeeds, is always applicable. It can always be tried.
It always therefore will be tried, if no other tnethod can be
suggested. And it can be scientifically superseded only by another
method which works better. Now the great weakness of vitalists
and believers in the '
soul '
has too long been that they have
conceived their principles as mere negations, and not as methods
of discovery. They have feared to use them as principles of
prediction and exploration, for the control of phenomena. Now a
'
soul '
that does nothing is nothing. A mere unknown, and perhaps
unknowable, something in the background is no explanation of
anything. At present the '
soul ' is a mere confession of ignorance :
it should be conceived as a field of exploration. If, therefore,
the psychic factor is a fact, it ought to lead to further facts.
And if further facts are alleged, they must be examined, estab-
lished, and extended, with the insatiable curiosity of scientific
method. There is safety only in going on, not in taking one's
stand upon any impregnable rock of '
something that no mechanism
can account for.' This appears to be the essential difference
between vitalism and psychical research. F. S. C. Schiller.
NOTES ON PEEIODICALS.
The Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research for
February is almost wholly devoted to the reports recently pub-
lished of sittings with Guzik. The Editor begins the discussion
by examining rather superficially the evidence both for and against
the reality of Cxuzik's mediumship. He maintains that (as every-
one admits) there may be two Guziks ; one capable of producing
genuine phenomena and another capable of doing " what he did
at AVarsaw, when not under control, with a miscellaneous lot of
people in a parlour, who have paid a good fat sum to see some-
thing." Accordingly Dr. Edwards concludes that " where the
control was rigid, the phenomena are attested as genuine by many
respoiisible men. Where there was no control Mr. Price says
they were humbug ; at least, while he doesn't explicitly say so,
that's the inference." We presume that in coming to this strange
conclusion Dr. Edwards has forgotten all about the Sorbonne
Report on the same medium. When he says, " where the control
was rigid, the phenomena are attested as genuine by many re-
sponsible men," he means the men at the Institute and not the
men at the Sorbonne, who came to precisely the opposite con-
April, 1924. Notes on Periodicals. 255
elusion. The great difference between the two reports is that at
the Institute the investigators thought they could control the
medium's feet and legs, and ^that at the Sorbonne they discovered
that they could do nothing of the kind, Guzik's motionless legs
and feet being transformed into two very active and mobile
members. Two luminous buttons attached to the toe of Guzik's
stockings would have given some security, but the Institute
preferred the control by touch. The Sorbonne, seeing the enormous
difficulties of the control, declared candidly their incompetence,
and substituted an automatic control, whereat the phenomena
ceased absolutely, which was precisely what happened with minor
variations at Warsaw, where, although I could not institute an
automatic control, I was kept fully occupied in chasing an agile
foot, which finally gave up its efforts to escape, and silence reigned
imtil the end of the sitting.
Following the Editor's contribution to the problem comes a
translation of part of Dr. Geley's report upon Guzik's sittings at
the Institute and at Warsaw. Then Mr. Price's impressions are
printed, in which he gives an amusing and accurate account of
his experiences at Warsaw with Guzik, which is valuable from
the point of view of one who wishes to see how phenomena
reported as " supernormal " appear to one acquainted with nor-
mal methods of producing them. Sir Oliver Lodge then con-
tributes a short letter on the same subject, in which he says
that the conditions of the Institute were " perfectly controlled
"
and in this he is supported by Dr. Geley in a succeeding letter.
The discussion is wound up by Mr. Stanley de Brath who
supports the Institute in a short article.
The March issue of the Journal continues the discussion. Part
of the Sorbonne report on Guzik is published, in which the in-
vestigators declare their conviction that there is nothing mysterious
in the phenomena they observed, for the " medium produces
them, by using his elbow for certain contacts applied to the
region of the shoulder, [and] by freeing from control one of his
legs." Mr. de Brath again summarises the evidence which is so
conflicting and has caused such bitter controversy. He has three
" explanations," they are :
(1) That Guzik is one more case of mediums with genuine
powers, who, exhausted by constant seances and greed
of gain, descend to vulgar and stupid trickery.
256 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1924.
We confess that the first explanation is unintelligible to ns.
When at Warsaw Guzik was giving four or five seances a day
yet the phenomena were pronounced magnificent except by certain
British and Swedish investigators. It is certainly singularly
unfortunate that when Guzik arrived at the Sorbonne he should
have been exhausted and greedy for gain, when outside in other
Parisian circles at the same time the phenomena were convincing
other inquirers. Mr. de Brath's second " explanation "'
is that
:
(2) He is acting under the mental suggestion of a highly sceptical
psychic atmosphere created by the strong annoyance and
disgust of the sitters.
This theory need not be considered, as Mr. de Brath has yet to
prove that the distinguished members of the Sorbonne Commission
were filled with annoyance and disgust before the alleged trickery
was discovered. The next theory is that the phenomena may just
possibly be referred to unseen operators playing poltergeist tricks
on the sitters, in regard to which explanation Mr. de Brath
appears to be somewhat confused between supernormal poltergeist
phenomena, pseudo-poltergeist phenomena, and poltergeist con-
trolling entities, whatever they may be supposed to be.
The Revue Metapsychique for January-February contains a
reply by Professor Richet to Dr. A Delmas upon the subject of
supernormal phenomena and also a highly interesting paper by
Professor Hans Driesch on the relation of vitalism to psychic
manifestations. Dr. Neumann contributes an article supporting
the claims of the medium Guzik, but we are not aware that the
author has devised any better scheme of control than that used
by his predecessors. Dr. Geley contributes also a portion of his
forthcoming book, Teleplasm and Clairvoyance, entitled Intro-
duction a I'etude pratique de la mediumnite.
Psychische Studien for February has two articles by Dr. von
Schrenck-Notzing ; the first on German philosophy of the nine-
teenth century and the second on the Laszlo scandal at Budapest.'-
General Peter has reprinted part of Mr. Price's report upon the
mediumship of Miss Stella C, and Dr. Tischner has a short paper
on occultism in relation to materialism and mysticism.
The March issue of the same journal has a further account of
the Laszlo exposure in Hungary ; a paper by Zimmer on tele-
plasm and possible analogies as seen in the chrysalis, and an
account of the exposure of Rudi Schneider at Vienna. E. J. D.
^ To be reviewed later in the Proceedinys.
No. CCCCV.—Vol. XXI. - v
'
'
'
May, 1924.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A"
PRIVATE MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i,
On rUESDA y, JUNE lyth, 1924, at 4.30 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" Some Reminiscenes of and some Lessons from
Fifty Years of Psychical Research
"
WILL BE READ BY
Sir WILLIAM BARRETT, F.R.S.
N.B.
—
JVo Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted o?i signing their ?iames at the
door.
i
258 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mat, 1924.
NEW MEMBERS.
Borghese, S. E. Princess, S. Felice Scovolo, Brescia, Italy.
Crandon, L. R. G., M.D., 336 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A.
Leigh-Bennett, Mrs. Pendarves, 7 Logan Place, Kensington,
London, W. 8.
Wells, Mrs. Thos. E., Green Bay Eoad, Lake Forest, Illinois, U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 210th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Monday, April 7th, 1924, at 3 p.m. ;
the President in the chair. There were also present Mr.
W. W. Baggally, Mr. E. N. Bennett, Sir OUver Lodge, Mrs.
W. II. Salter, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mr. Whately Smith, and
Dr. V. J. WooUey ;
also, Mr. E. J. Dingwall, Eesearch Officer,
and Miss Isabel Newton. Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Four new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for March, 1924, were presented
and taken as read.
A letter was read from Miss Radclyffe-Hall tendering her
resignation as a co-opted member of the Council, her time
having become so fully occupied with other matters as to
prevent her remaining an active member. The Council
accepted the resignation with regret.
A very hearty vote of thanks to the donor of the Seance
room for a further gift of £200 was passed.
PRIVATE MEETING.
The 79th Private Meeting for Members and Associates was
held in the Council Chamber at Denison House, 296 Vauxhall
Bridge Road, London, S.W., on Monday, April 7th, 1924, at
4.30 p.m. ; the President in the chair.
A Paper entitled " Some recent Sittings in Paris with the
Medium Guzik was read by Sir Ohver Lodge, F.R^S.
May, 1924. " Experiences in Spiritualism with D. D. Home.'" 259
NOTICE CONCERNING LORD DUNRAVEN'S
" EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM WITH D. D. HOME."
Lord Dunraven's personal record of his experiences with the
well-known medium D. D. Home, which were printed—for
private circulation only—some fifty years ago, will shortly be
published as a Part of our Proceedings, and simultaneously in
a cloth bound edition for sale to the general public at 7s. 6d.
It Since it will evidently be convenient, having regard to the
cloth edition, that this Part of Proceedings should begin at
page 1, it will constitute Part XCIII. Vol. XXXV. We hope
to pubhsh Parts XCI. and XCII. (to complete Vol. XXXIV.)
in the course of this year.
AN EXPERIMENT WITH THE POLISH MEDIUM
'
STEPHAN OSSOWIECKI.
By E. J. Dingwall.
The following experiment mth the medium Ossowiecki took
place at Warsaw during the Second Congress in the autumn of
1923. Prior to leaving for Poland I had prepared a test for
this medium on August 22, 1923. No one was present at the
operation and no one was informed what I had written and
drawn upon the paper within the envelopes. The paper measured
approximately 17-5 cm. by 11 cm. The following words were
written at the top of the paper before placing it within the
first envelope :
" Les vignobles du Rhin, de la Moselle et de
la Bourgogne donnent un vin excellent." On the lower half I
drew an exceedingly rough design which was meant to convey
the idea of a bottle without actually being a picture of one
(Fig. 1). This I enclosed within three lines, the fourth being
supplied by the left hand edge of the paper. Near the bottom
right hand corner I then wrote [Aug. 22, 1923]. The slip of
paper was then folded with the writing outwards and placed
in an opaque red paper envelope, the external measurements
of which were about 11 '5 cm. by 9 cm. The slip was placed
so that the writing was facing the plain side of the envelope
and the drawing the flap side. The flap being left unsealed.
260 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May, 1924.
this red envelope was then inserted flap end first into an
opaque dull black envelope, into which it fitted closely. This
envelope, again unsealed, was then inserted flap end first into
a brown paper envelope, into which it again fitted closely.
The flap of this envelope was then pasted down and a single
seal affixed to the lowest part of the flap where it adhered
to the envelope. Four pinholes were then pricked at the four
Fig. 1.
corners of the envelope, and the packet put away until taken
to Warsaw. There it was left either locked up in my suit-case
or carried inside the breast pocket of my jacket inside my
passport.
Towards 1.15 p.m. on August 30, 1923, I met Baron von
Schrenck-Notzing outside the University of Warsaw. He told
me that as there might be a sitting with Ossowiecki that
evening it would be advisable to present a sealed letter if I
had one ready prepared. In that case he would himself take
it to the seance at which I should not assist, it being thought
that through some telepathic process the medium might gain
knowledge of the contents of the packet by reading my mind.
The sitting took place in Ossowiecki's flat in Warsaw the
same evening at 9 p.m. Three documents had been prepared :
two were made up at the Hotel de I'Europe the same evening,
and the third was my own brought by Baron von Schrenck.
(The account which follows is partly derived from that pub-
May, 1924. An Experivient with the Polish Medium. 261
lished in the Revue Metapsychique (Sept.-Oct. 1923, 317-320)
by Dr. Geley, who, with M. Sudre, Mme. Ossowiecki and Professor
A. Vehab and Baron von Schrenck-Notzing were present at the
sitting.)
M. Ossowiecki took the three letters and, turning them over
in his hands, selected the one in the brown envelope brought
by Baron von Schrenck-Notzing and prepared by myself. The
two other envelopes were white.
The medium then began to concentrate, tightly holding
the packet in his hands and walldng about but without leaving
the sight of the observers. Speaking in short phrases with
long pauses between each sentence, Dr. Geley was able to note
down what he was saying, which was as follows :
" I feel the restaurant . . . the Hotel de TEurope ... it is not
you (designating Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing) who have written.
It is another man that I might be able to describe .... The
letter that I am holding has several envelopes ... It is a letter
and yet it is not a letter ... I see something greenish, in card-
board {en carton) . . . They are the other letters [i.e. the two in
the white envelopes] which have come from the Hotel de I'Europe.
. . . I see a stranger of from 34 to 35 years of age. He is
Fig. 2.
262 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May, 1924.
speaking a little and is a trifle stout. You have spoken with
him ... The letter that I am holding has been prepared for
me . . . I cannot understand ... I see red .. . something red
colours ... a lady on one side . . . [Long pause.] I do not
know why I see a little bottle ... you have a very fine study
;
many old pictures ;
chairs upholstered in leather, with much wood
in the room ... the study is a little dark ... It is not the
man that I have just seen, the stout one, who has written the
letter that I am holding. . . There is a drawing made by a
man who is not an artist . . . something red with this bottle .
There is without any doubt a second red envelope . . . There
is a square drawn at the corner of the paper. The bottle is very
badly drawn. I see it! I see it! (He draws: Fig. 2.) I see
it
!
I see it !
at the corner on the other side. In the middle
something also is written, on the back ..."
At this juncture the company were asked to come into the
dining-room for refreshments. The medium, still holding the
envelope, stains it slightly whilst eating a sardine. He con-
tinues to speak :
" I see a man who resembles Mr. Vett. It is he who has
written for me one of the two white letters. One of the two is
from him. The other is the stout gentleman whom I have already
described."
Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing then took the opportunity of
informing those present that this was correct. One of the
letters was prepared by Mr. Vett and the other by Mr. Neu-
mann, who is short and rather stout. The medium then
continued :
"There is something else: something white and in the middle
... I see before the year, there is a date or the name of the
town ... It is rather a feminine than a masculine hand." Dr.
von Schrenck then inquired in what language was it written?
" In French," M. Ossowiecki replied and he added, "
The bottle
is a little inclined to one side. It has no cork. It is made up
of several fine lines. There is first a brown envelope outside;
then a greenish envelope, and then a red envelope. Inside, a piece
of white paper folded in two with the drawing inside.' It is
written on a single sheet."
Mat, 1924. Atl Experiment with the Polish Medium. 263
The following day I opened the packet at a meeting of the
Congress and explained certain of the precautions which I had
taken against tampering. The envelopes appeared to be wholly
intact and no evidence whatever was discernible that the
packet had been opened. I had no doubt that the test was
valid and that the knowledge of the contents had been ascer-
tained by M. Ossowiecki through channels not generally recog-
nised. The opening of the packet created a sensation. M.
OssoAviecki received an ovation and fell on the necks of the
observers with tears in his eyes.
In discussing this case it is necessary to bear in mind that
the result of the experiment showed, I think, quite definitely
that coincidence can be wholly excluded. Either the know-
ledge was obtained in a normal manner or it was not. In
order to discover the contents normally it would have been
necessary to gain possession of the packet, open it skilfully,
and mth much laborious care reseal it after having discovered
the tests and devised the best methods to be used in circum-
venting them. Now the packet was in my possession at
Warsaw from the day that I arrived (9.15 a.m., Monday,
August 27) until it was given to Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing
on August 30 at about 1.15 p.m. To obtain possession of
it would have meant («) Having a duplicate key made to
my suit-case or opening it in some other manner, or (6) ob-
taining possession of it from Dr. von Schrenck. Since it was on
Dr. von Schrenck's person, this appears to me to be im-
possible and need not be considered. Now, as the sitting was
held in the light and the packet was visible in the medium's
hand during the reading, the knowledge, if gained normally,
must have been so gained before the sitting, and this, as I
have tried to show above, involves insuperable difficulties.
This, together with other excellent evidence of the same faculty
in Ossowiecki and other mediums, leaves us but Uttle choice
as to the proper interpretation to be put upon the experiment.
The supernormal character of the incident seems to me quite
clear and decisive.
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mat, 1924.
BRAIN AND SPEECH.i
By Sir Oliver Lodge.
In Nature for April 5th, 1924, there is an account by Dr.
Tudor Jones of work done by Dr. Henry Head on Aphasia.
It seems that Dr. Head, the eminent neurologist, has had
plenty of opportunity of studying the residual mental power,
or rather that part of the residual mental power which can
be demonstrated in speech and writing, possessed by soldiers
who have had their brain injured in the war.
Whereas usually aphasic patients are old people with many
disabilities—arterial degeneration, diminished intellectual capacity,
and possibly mental depression—these patients were extremely
intelUgent, wilKng and anxious to be examined thoroughly, and
were not at all depressed. Nevertheless, they were quite unable
to bethink themselves of simple names. They generally got
round them by roundabout phrases. By "names," I mean not
the meaningless " Proper names " of persons, but the perhaps
equally meaningless though more familiar names for such
things as colours, days of the week, places, pieces of furniture,
and such like. For instance, to take one singular though
apparently typical case, obtained while testing for colours
which nevertheless they w^ere able to distinguish and match—
mstead of the name "black," the idea was conveyed, not by
that famihar w^ord, but by the roundabout idea, "what you
do for the dead." So that the word "dead" tended to be
employed instead of black.
Similarly it was difficult to tell the time by a clock; and
though the patients might be punctual for appointments, they
would specify time as " when w^e went there," or " when we
were doing so-and-so." Which reminds one of Phinuit's
specification of Monday as "the first after Sabbath." In fact,
the whole phenomenon seems closely related to what may be
called the aphasia of mediums under control. I have con-
stantly noticed that roundabout phrases are employed. Instead
of sajdng "Shut the door," Phinuit would say "Close that
opening ! "—with a momentary hesitation before the word
' Read at a Private Meeting of the Society on April 7th, 1924.
May, 1924. Brain and Speech. 265
" opening/' which if indicated by a printed dash would convey
a wrong impression ! <
Again, in recent time, with another medium, though the
word " France " is often used, Paris itself is never mentioned,
though that is what was intended. Not only names and
addresses, but even places, are seldom or not often spon-
taneously mentioned. Some phrase hke " where we went to,"
and other circumlocutions are employed ; and the same for
things in the room—" that object," for instance, instead of
" that table," or " that work-box," as if they were not clear
what the object was.
When a name is suggested, says Dr. Head, virtually, it is
at once understood ;
they know the thing corresponding to
the name when the name is spoken, but they cannot apparently
bethink themselves of the name.
" Many patients who cannot name objects can choose them to
oral as well as printed command. '
Once the word has been
presented to the patient, it calls up an image which corresponds
to some object before him '
; but he cannot himself reproduce the
appropriate symbol on demand."
How like this is to the aphasia of mediums, and indeed some-
times to our own, many can testify. .
This kind of aphasia is often attributed to a mental con-
fusion of the communicator under unusual conditions ; and
occasionally there may be that confusion. But usually I
think the difficulty is not due to mental confusion at all, but
to a lack of adequate control of the mechanism ; so that
there is a block at some junction on the way to the speech-
centres, an obstruction which has to be got round by some
indirect path.
Initials seem more easily given than names, and there is
a tendency even with well-known and frequently repeated
names to employ initials, or some other description. For
instance, Richet is usually spoken of as " C.R." But the
control called John King goes further, and humorously calls
him " Mule-eel," because on an early occasion, in Professor
Richet's presence, when referring to Richet's attitude to sur-
vival, stigmatising the obstinacy with which he clung to his
materialistic views and the slipperiness with which he evaded
266 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May, 1924.
arguments against them, John King said; " I Uke your attitude,
though you are part mule and the rest eel, still I like you."
Months later, when John King was again intending to refer to
Richet, in his absence, he expected us to understand and
interpret the nickname " mule-eel."
1 might with a little trouble make a collection of these
circumlocutions, of which the last is not a good example,
since it is only a nickname. Circumlocutions have occurred
more or less through all mediums ; and in taking notes, one
is tempted sometimes, when one guesses perfectly well what
the meaning is, to abbreviate and write, not what they say,
but what they mean. But from the scientific point of view
this would be very wrong, since it would throw no light on
the process ; and I hope I have always avoided that tempta-
tion. When the sentence is sjkU out, instead of being volubly
spoken, there is no difficulty in getting down the exact
phraseology. And one notices that although the spelling- out
must, one would think, be laborious, and takes a little time,
yet often, even when using that method, a rather long-winded
phrase is employed.
For instance, to take an- imaginary example, merely by way
of illustration, I can imagine their saying " that place where
famous people are buried," instead of Westminster Abbey.
And Phinuit, speaking on a Friday, would certainly have said,
" The third after second Sabbath," when he meant Wednesday
week ; thus avoiding even the word " day."
In his lifetime F. W. H. Myers was rather impatient of
these circumlocutions. He thought that by taking adequate
trouble, communicators might avoid these indefinitenesses and
use conipacter and more ordinary phraseology, such as " the
day before yesterday," or " the day after to-morrow," " this
•day fortnight " ; or even " the 21st of April," and have done
with it. The indications have always been that they knew
perfectly well what they meant, and were able to convey it,
but that they could not easily use the compact forms of
expressions to which we have grown accustomed ; so that we
sometimes forget how compact and convenient they are.
Now that he is on the other side, Myers acts up to his
<Jontention, and, whether troublesome or not, manages to
May, 1924. Brain and Speech. 267
specify things for the most part in the ordinary way, especially
through a very definite spelling medium, a Miss Yam. And
apparently he has got John King and some others to do the
same. So that now when they make an appointment for
another sitting, they say : "I will meet you again on Friday
the 26th of May at nine o'clock ; don't be late." And Avhen
we have time to look into the diary, we find that the 26th
really is a Friday. It seems as if they had taken the trouble
to looks things up, and specify them, just as they would have
done when here.
Again, during a sitting, with this definite and business-like
amateur medium, a communicator may stop and say, " I must
go now, but I will return at eleven," lea\'ing someone else
to talk meanwhile. And at eleven they usually do return.
This part of my statement seems in contradiction of what
went before. What it shows is that definite statements can be
made, even when using an alien brain, but probably only by
preparation and arrangement. In any spontaneous utterance,
and through vaguer mediums, these definite communicators are
almost as likely to use roundabout phrases as other people
;
or if they want some particular name about which they feel
a difficulty, they say, " I cannot give it you now, but I will
give it you later."
Many people have thought that this difficulty about names,
and the hedging when anything definite has to be uttered, as
for instance in reply to a sudden question, is a sign not
of mental confusion, but of some kind of fishing and fraud.
I believe that in most cases that is a great mistake, and that
we should accept the fact that there is a difficulty, and should
try to reaUse wherein the difficulty consists. The patho-
logical work of Dr. Head, undertaken and carried out without
the least reference to our subject, seems likely to throw light
upon it. Dr. Head says that " general intelligence " is not
primarily affected by a brain-lesion. The fault is not in the
intelHgence but in the physical demonstration or manifestation
of it. I would emphasise that statement as an important one.
Nevertheless (he says) :
—
" A man who in general conversation is unable to express his
thoughts or comprehend the full significance of words and phrases
268 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May, 1924.
appears more stupid than others. His isolation from the sources
of mental life diminishes his field of thought, and thus many
aphasics gradually deteriorate. But '
general intelligence '
(the
existence of which Hughlings Jackson denied) is not primarily
affected. Behaviour suffers specifically. What cannot be done in
one way can be done in another."
Again he says :
—
" When a uni-lateral lesion of the brain disturbs the use of
language, any act of mental expression which demands symbolic
formulation tends to be defective, and the higher its propositional
value the greater difficulty will it present. Any modification of
the task which lessens the necessity for symbolic representation
will render its performance easier."
The fact is that all words are conventions, not only proper
names. As Elliot Smith has pointed out :
—
" Man's immediate ancestors possessed high powers of dis-
crimination before man developed speech and invented his symbol-
isms to register differences (relations) apparent to him. Like
speech, this is a cortical function but earlier acquired. A
patient with his eyes closed may be able to point to the position
of various objects in some familiar room with regard to himself,
although he cannot formulate their relation to one another."
And Dr. Head, in contending against the idea of speech-
centres in the brain where words originate, regards such
apparent centres as negative, not positive :
—
" The processes which underlie an act of speech run through
the nervous system like a prairie fire from bush to bush ; remove
all inflammable material at any one point and the fire stops."
It is noteworthy that Professor Bergson also regards the func-
tion of the brain as inhibitory, or negative, rather than positive
—a screen rather than a glow. "What you forget with," as an
examination candidate said. It protects us from a wilderness or
complexity of thought by blocking all avenues but one, and
sometimes blocking that. Anatomical sites in the brain are not
functional parts from which words spring ready formed. There
are no centres for spealdng, reading, writing, or the normal use
of language. Such apparent centres are merely places where the
normal stream of nerve activity may be interrupted, with results
3Hay, 1924. Brain and Speech 269
which may or may not be characteristic. There is nothing charac-
teristic in our purely hnguistic terms. Dr. Head is said to have
given a death-blow to the classical theory of aphasia, and thrown
the whole conception of " centres " into the melting-pot.
Words, if used, are appUed correctly by an aphasic patient.
'The significance of words is retained, but it is easier to deal
with pictures. The comprehension of the meaning of words is
always in excess of their use. The order of terms in a simple
phrase is sometimes reversed, and pictures are often read from
right to left. (This, too, is often done by mediums, 27 for 72 for
instance.) There is usually an inability to name things, which
is more marked when the things themselves are abstract.
Eelations cannot be identified by appropriate word labels. An
.aphasic patient does not forget people or places ;
he can recall
spontaneously events both recent and remote, but he may not
be able to put them into words.
Now all this has evidently a close analogy with iiiediumistic
disabihties. And really it is very much what one ought to
expect, on the view that a full and competent intelUgence is
trying to use a borrowed brain-mechanism not completely
under control, and finding obstruction along what would seem
to be quite simple and customary channels.
Fatigue induces in normal people something of the same
•characteristic. When tired, it is much more difficult to re-
member names or to speak a foreign language. And it seems
to me very important that it should now have been dis-
covered that lesions of the brain, such as occur in war, only
interfere with the mechanism, and do not destroy what Dr.
Head calls " the general intelUgence."
That is exactly the contention of those (myself being one)
who hold that the brain is merely an instrument, and that
imperfection in the instrument need imply no corresponding
imperfection in the operator.
,
'
CASE.
L. 1254 A Book-Test.
We have received from Mr. J. F. C. Kimber, a Member of
the Society, the following record of a book-test, in which he
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May, 1924.
was himself the percipient. An earlier experience of Mr.
Kimber's of the same type, which occurred on September 10,
1921, will be found recorded in the Journal, Vol. XX. p. 198.
Mr. Kimber's record of the present incident was enclosed
with a letter to Mrs. Sidgwick, which ran as follows
The Gate House, Eshing,
GoDALMiNG, Apr. 4/24.
I think the enclosed will interest you, and I should much value
your opinion on it.
It seems to me that the only explanation of it is that Charles ^
wished to convey to us his pleasure.
My subconscious is out of it, as the information given never
had been in my mind.
Telepathy from my wife is too far-fetched, as my wife has not
read the book since 1894 or 5, and did not know of its position
in the bookcase. These books are turned out and dusted every
time the room is cleaned (about once a week) and no special care
is taken to replace them in the same order.
That I obtained the information from a " cosmic store " of all
the accumulated knowledge of the world 1 can't believe.
J. F. C. KiMBER.
With the above letter was enclosed the following statement
:
[Received by Mrs. Sidgwick, Ajpril 5/24.
(Signed) E. M. Sidgwick.]
On the night of Mar. 31/24, when going to bed, I was
s nd ing in front of my dressing table thinking with great peace
of mind of my son's recent happy engagement. My thoughts
wandered to C.L.D. and I thought how strange it was that I had
had no more impression book tests.
Into my head came. Well, try among the books in this room.
(There is only one row of books in this room, on a shelf under
a small bureau.) Then came,
Third from Left,
Page 8. Line 4.
I asked what I should find on this line and got Joy a feeling-
of joy.
i"C!iarles" referred to in the record below as C.L.D. is a deceased friend
of Mr. Kimber's, who, he believes, has often communicated.
May, 1924. Case. 271
I went to my wife's room, and asked her to come and look it
up for me, which she did.
The book proved to be
Demeter and other Poems, by Alfred Lord Tennyson.
Page 8, line 4. reads
" At this glad ceremonial
"
I think we may take this as a reference to our Joy at our
Son's recent engagement.
I don't remember ever having looked for a book on that shelf,
and had no idea what books were there.
Never having been a reader of poetry, I did not even know
this book by name.
We have since examined the 22 other books on the shelf and
in none of them does page 8, 1, 4. refer in any way to a joyous
Carnival. J. F- C. Kimber.
I have read the above and can vouch for its correctness.
Gertrude L. Kimber.
GLASTONBURY ABBEY.
In the Journal for April pages 248-49, we printed a statement
from Mr. F. Bligh Bond with regard to the Rev. Dr. H. J.
Wilkins's A further Criticism of the Psychical Claims concern-
ing Glastonbury Abbey and the Recent Excavations. We
have now received from Dr. Wilkins a reply to Mr. Bligh
Bond's criticism, which we print below. Since the matter in
dispute is primarily one for archaeologists, in which this Society
is only very indirectly concerned, we do not invite any further
correspondence upon it in these pages.
Mr. Bond, F.R.I.B.A., and sometime Director of Excavations at
this Abbey for the Somerset Archaeological Society, seeks, in his
statement in your last issue, to invalidate my criticism by advanc-
ing a different set of measurements. He now gives :
—extreme
length of the standing ruins 502 feet, rectangular chapel 66 feet
6 inches ;
total, 568 feet 6 inches.
But when the rectangular chapel had been completely excavated
in 1908 he reported :
(1)
" It has certainly added greatly to the length of the Abbey,
increasing the total over all from about 510 to 580 feet
"
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May, 1924.
{Somerset ArchjEological Proceedings, 1908, p. 122), and
so in harmony with the traditional measurements.
[The measurement of 510 feet is in substantial agree-
ment with («) the late Sir W. H. St. John Hope's plan,
compiled with the assistance of Mr. Roland Paul, for the
Royal Archaeological Institute—^rey^. Journal, Sept. 1904,
between jsp. 188-9; and (6) with Mr. Bond's own plan,
where he shows 518 ft. to include 7 ft. 6 in. of the
rectangular chapel (Report, 1908, p. 117) ; deduct this, and
it leaves 510 ft. 6 in. for the standing ruins. Report, 1913,
Plate I.]
(2)
• Total interior length rather less than 570 ft." {Report, 1909,
p. 104), add the west and east walls and the external
length will be substantially as in (1).
Mr. Bond's new figures give 493 ft. 6 in. as the total internal
length of the existing ruins—irreconcilable with his statement
:
" The actual] measurement (within the walls) is just under 500 ft.
in the clear " {Architectural Handhooh, 1920, p. 48, note).
To the"" new figures, 568 ft. 6 in., add Mr. Bond's measurement
for the disputed apse :
" The balance of length for the apse was
shown as 15 ft. 6 in., even on the foundations " (Plate I., Report
1909, between pp. 106-7), and the total is 584 ft. —again irre-
concilable' with (1) his own plan, which shows 592 ft. (Plan in
Report 1913, between jDp. 56-57); (2) his statement in his Gate of
Remembrance 593 ft. (p. 68). H. J. Wilkins.
THE PARAPSYCHIC INSTITUTE OF VIENNA.
With reference to the Wiener Parapsychisches Institut, of which a
notice appeared in the January Journal, we have received some
further information from Herr Ubald Tartaruga, who asks us to
bring the following points to the notice of our readers :
The objects of the Institute are twofold :
(1) Experimental work to be carried out in the medical labora-
tory of Dr. Franz v. Halla.
(2) The giving of regular lectures by leading men of science to
audiences whose names are registered, but who are not
Members of the Institute and of whom no membership
fee is asked. These lectures are regarded as having an educa-
tive purpose, namely, to teach people by means of syste-
matic instruction by qualified men of science to apply
critical judgment to psychical phenomena.
(3) The Managing Committee of the Institute consists entirely
of persons of Academic standing.
No. CCCCVI.—Vol. XXI. .Jitne, 1924.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
NEW MEMBERS.
Barradell-Smith, Mrs. E. L., Hatfield, The Giove, Slough, Bucks.
Bazin, E. E., 81 Kingston Lane, Teddington, Middlesex.
Israel, Mrs. Amy I, 7 Hohenzollern Strasse, Berlin.
Jones, Lawrence E., 15 Cleveland Gardens, London.
Klinckowstroem, Graf Karl V., Hohenzollernstr. 1-30, Munich.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 211tli Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Thursday, May 8th, 1924, at 3.45
p.m. ;
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick in the chair. There were also
present: Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir WilUam Barrett, Mr. E. N.
Bennett, the Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. and Mrs. W. H.
Salter, Mr. W. Whately Smith, and Dr. V. J. WooUey ; also
Mr. E. J. Dingwall, Research Officer, and Miss I. Newton,
Secretary.
The IVIinutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Five new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
It was resolved :
" That the Council accept with much
gratitude the further gift of £400 from the anonymous donor
of the seance room, viz : £200 for printing expenses, about £40
for steel cupboards if these would be useful for archives of
the Society, and the balance to add to the capital of the
Endowment Fund. These gifts mil all be of great value, and
274 Journal of Society for PsychicaL Researdi. June, 1924.
the Council very specially welcome the donor's interest in the
Endowment Fund, which they feel it is very important to
increase and for which they have received no gifts for a long
time."
The Monthly Accounts for April, 1924, were presented and
taken as read.
GENERAL MEETING. "
The 166th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Robert Barnes Hall of the Royal Society of Medicine, 1
Wimpole Street, London, W., on Thursday, May 8th, 1924, at
5.30 p.m.
The President, Mr. J. G. Piddington, delivered an Address
which will shortly be published in the Proceedings.
METAPSYCHIC SCIENCE AND SURVIVAL
By Prof. Charles Richet
My distinguished friend. Sir OUver Lodge, has given a lucid
exposition of the essential features of the sj^iritist hypothesis
apart from its too common crudities.^ I am sure that he will
forgive me if. after having read and meditated upon his
article, I am unable to share his opinions. Taken as a whole
the facts—whether they be called spiritualist or metapsychic
—
are true, authentic and indisputable. Doubtless there are
among them errors, illusions and frauds, but there is a residue
of undeniable phenomena before which all authority, however
well-estabhshed, must bow.
For those who hold the spiritist hypothesis the explanation
is relatively simple—personality is not extinguished by the
death of the brain ; George Pelham's consciousness reappears
when Mrs. Piper speaks in his name ; that of Raymond Lodge
appears through Mrs. Leonard and Feda : that of Myers when
Mrs. Verrall writes.
The hypothesis is bold and clearly defined. It is supported
by some very remarkable semblances which may be briefly
summed up by saying that the words of George Pelham,
iSee Proc. S.F.J!. Vol. XXXIV. p. 113 ff.
June, 1924. MetapsycMc Science and Survival. 275
Raymond Lodge and Frederic Myers are such as they would
have uttered if they were hving among us. The intimately
personal memories, the highly charasteristic phraseology, con-
stitutes so coherent a whole that the simplest hypothesis is
that of the survival of the personahty.
It is here to be understood that I pass over all the innumer-
able trivialities, often crude and absurd, which are attributed
by the medium to the spirits of the dead. For reasonable
discussion it is but seemly to set aside these foolish utterances
and to consider only vaUd instances in which the spirit supposed
to be speaking through the medium reveals particular facts
known only to the deceased. Such cases exist ;
they are not
numerous, they are indeed extremely rare. But their frequency
is of little consequence. It would suffice that there be some
duly verified cases to warrant the hjnpothesis of survival. I
say to ivarrant, I do not say to justify, for other explanations
than survival seem to me possible or even probable ; and it
is at this point I find myself unable to concm" with Sir OUver
Lodge.
Moreover, since the very nmnerous cases detailed in the work
of my very good friend Dr. Osty, it is obvious that sensitives
can revive memories, knowledge, and events equally unknown
to the percipient and to the questioner.
I can add notiling to the opinions that I have pubUshed
in my Treatise on Metapsychics. A perusal of that book will
make my intentions clear. I endeavoured to write on science,
not on dreams ; and I therefore confined myself to a state-
ment of facts and discussion of their actuaUty, not only with-
out advancing any theory, but scarcely mentioning theories.
Facts are permanent, and for them I have profound respect,
but theories change from year to year or even from day to
day.
As for the explanation of the metapsychic facts on which
many men of science are still sceptical, I can only say definitely
that I believe in the hypothesis, now unknown, which the
future -will estabhsh—a hypothesis that I cannot formulate,
for it is unknown to me.
Among all these perplexing phenomena there is one that is
more perplexing than any others—Prevision. It is established
276 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1924.
by proofs that are absolutely certain, but it remains totally
incomprehensible.
There are also a few cases, rare no doubt, but of an
importance that I do not disguise—in which there are, or seem
to be, intelligent and reasoned intentions, forces, and acts of
will apparent in the phenomena produced, and these have all
the characteristics of being due to extraneous action. I allude
more especially to the visions of young children when dying.
These facts would be exceedingly curious and noteworthy if
they stood alone, but they do not stand alone. I have mentioned
two precisely similar ; and their similarity, or rather their
identity, is so definite that it is impossible to admit chance
or imaginative fancy as their cause. Such facts are highly
important. They are much more exphcable by the spirit-
hjrpothesis than by that of cryptaesthesia. It even seems to
me that among all the facts adduced to prove survival, these
are the most disconcerting ; I have therefore been scrupulous
to mention them. Nevertheless despite their spiritoid appear-
ance these facts are not sufficient to make me infer that the
consciousness of deceased persons appears as a phantom at
the death of a relative.
Sir Ohver reproaches me with an obsession on the subject
of the brain—that I consider cerebral integrity essential to
human conditions. That other intelhgences under othei? con-
ditions than those of our animal organisation in terrestrial life,
may exist in nature, is possible or even probable ; but they
ivill be no longer human intelligences.
Maeterhnck has expressed this admirably
—" This '
I,' so
uncertain, so fugitive, and so precarious, evading all definition,
is so entirely the centre of our being, and interests us so
exclusively, that all the reahties of life fade when confronted
with that phantasm. If remembrance of certain facts, nearly
always trivial, does not accompany us ... it is nothing to me
that the highest, free-est and noblest parts of my mind should
shine, living and eternal, in supreme bUss ;
they are not me ;
I do not know them. Death has severed the links of nerves,
or the memories that bound them to that unknown central
point at which I feel myself complete."
This does not signify negation of any intelhgent energies
June, 1924. Metapsychic Science and Survival. 277
apart from a brain ; but such hypothetical inteUigent forces,
independent of a material substratum, have nothing in common
with human intelligence. We may well suppose at the outset
that intelhgent beings other than men are about us and may
be associated with our evolution, although they may be free
from the mechanical, physical, anatomical and chemical con-
ditions under which we Uve.
Why shordd not intelhgent and powerful beings exist apart
from the worlds of which our senses inform us ? By what
right can our Hmited senses, our defective intelligence, warrant
us after a bare three centuries of scientific thought, in affirm-
ing that in the immense Cosmos Man is the only intelhgent
being, and that all intellectual reaUty necessarily imphes nerve-
cells nourished by oxygenated blood ? That there should be
intelhgent energies other than man, constructed on a wholly
different plan, is not only possible, it is extremely probable.
Tt is absurd to suppose that ours is the only intelhgence in
Nature ; and that every inteUigent energy is necessarily
organised on the animal or human mode, with a brain as its
organ. It is immediately obvious how deep the mystery is
:
for, when we speak of '
intelhgence ' our inevitably anthro-
pomorphic conception of things leads us to suppose that such
intelhgences must have human memory, a verbal terminology,
logic, and afiectivity hke our own. But intelhgence (in the
human sense) is so imperfect, so speciahsed in himianity, that
we can only appreciate intelhgent energies by assimilating
them more or less to those of mankind : which is probably
a grave mistake.
Even the spirit-hypothesis, stripped of its simpler concepts,
would, up to a certain point, be compatible with these con-
clusions. According to some well-informed spirituahsts, the
" Spirits " do not use words to express their thought ;
they
act by projecting ideas or symbols which the medium sub-
consciously translates into human language. Their alleged
communications assert the impossibility of expressing their
environment in terms of Space and Time. That is to say
these " spirits " are no longer imder human conditions. That
the consciousness of the hberated Self shoidd retain love for
its kin, may pass as a reason for attempting commimication.
278 Journal of Society for PsycJdcal Research. June, 1924.
But these are somewhat mystical speculations. I stand on
facts alone, and I take no pleasure in polemics. I do not
seek to persuade journalists, nor even to convince my colleagues
in science, but I am entirely set on proving facts to myself.
I will let discussions and arguments 'pro and con follow their
course. 1 have no desire to proselytise—my own convictions
are sufficient for myself. The important thing is to define the
conditions under which the facts can manifest ; to found them
on soHd ground ; and (which is the supreme purpose of science)
to estabhsh new truths which will certainly open new horizons,
instead of keeping fruitlessly in the old rut and the old track.
Therefore until some approach to proof comes before me,
I shall consider the spirituaUst theory as a ivorking-hypothesis,
moderately probable, convenient, and perhaps of use for the
study of the phenomena. That is all.
Sir Oliver thinks that theory true ; I think it neither
demonstrated nor even proveable. But that ^vill not prevent
either of us from trpng the same experiments, for neither he
nor I make experiments to support or disprove any theory.
We observe and experiment in order to know and understand.
Whither that research will lead us we cannot either of us
guess ; but what we are fully convinced of is that we shall
accept positively established results, for both of us are ready
to adopt, integrally and resolutely, whatever may be con-
formable with experimental truth.
THE CASE OF THE MEDIUM PASQUALE ERTO
The work of the medium Erto was first described in some
detail in the Revue Metaj)sychiqve for Nov.-Dec, 1922, pp.
354-365. Dr. Sanguineti of the neuropsychiatric chnic of the
University of Naples and Dr. William Mackenzie of Genoa
contributed two articles on the medium and the marvellous
luminous phenomena said to occur in his presence. Later he
visited Paris ; Dr. Geley did not issue a detailed report, but
managed to secure the services of the medium for a further
period in February 1924. The phenomena were then abundant
and impressive and besides the lights certain impressions were
being obtained upon plates contained in sealed shdes. Dr.
June, 1924. The Case of the Medium Pasquale Erto. 279
Geley very kindly invited me to be present at a few of the
sittings, and lia\'ing accepted, I went to Paris on February 4th.
Before the sitting Erto is examined and afterwards taken to
the seance room. There he is left uncontrolled, wearing only
specially chosen garments which at the earlier sittings consisted
of a pyjama suit, but latterly a suit of tights was substituted
for the loose fitting jacket and trousers. Erto stoutly resisted
aU attempts at a systematic control. He objected even to the
simplest precautioiLs, and as he was permitted at least once
during my ^isit to be in the seance room alone and unattended
for at least five minutes, I deemed it unnecessary to cause any
disturbance by insisting upon a proper control of his person.
After my return to England negotiations were begun with
Erto with the object of persuading him to visit London in
order to enable the Society to make a systematic and detailed
inquiry into his mediumship, concerning the reahty of which
I had the gravest doubts, although fully beheving that the
phenomena were worthy of careful attention. In April was
published a note from the Institute in Paris which was printed
in the Parisian press and A\idely circulated in England.
Ferro-cerium had been discovered upon Ertos person and
elsewhere, and by the aid of this material hghts could bs
produced similar to these observed with the medium. Erto
thereupon requested Le Matin to form a committee to declare
upon the authenticity of his mediumship. The report has been
printed and an account has been published in L'Opinion for
May 23, 1924. The committee are unanimous in their view.
It is that Erto is entirely fraudulent, ferro-cerium being again
found and also a piece of a steel nib wherewith to rub it.
Thus Erto is the third of the great continental mediums whose
work has been endorsed by scientific committees and who
have been subsequently exposed."' Perhaps in the light of
his exposure, we can understand Erto's refusal to accept anv
inquiry by the Society into his medirmaship. On February
11th, Erto proposed the sum of four pounds per sitting, full
traveUing expenses and an additional fee of two pounds per
day for his expenses. The Society did not feel justified
in accepting this offer and proposed a compromise in the
shape of an offer of two pounds ten shilhngs per sitting, full
280 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1924.
travelling expenses and one pound per day for board and
lodging. This proposal Erto refused. Thereupon one of our
members very generously came forward and offered to defray
the cost of Erto's original proposals. This offer was communi-
cated to Erto who promptly doubled liis fees after quadruphng
them ! It was evident that M. Erto did not feel inclined to
visit London on any consideration.
The results of the exposures of such well-known mediums as
Laszlo ^ and Erto are the same. Psychical research is retarded
by such events, and the authenticity of all physical phenomena
becomes a matter of doubt to those who see in them merely
the performances of mediums such as these two. Such frauds
will take place just so long as investigators permit mediums
either to be uncontrolled or to be controlled ineffectually.
A systematic method of control is lacking, the investigators
imagining that they are able to prevent fraud merely by
muddling through an unsystematic inspection and superficial
examination. Laszlo was stripped, purged, given an emetic
and watched for many hours, but in spite of all these pre-
cautions he smuggled in a roll of material to be produced as
" teleplasm." The trick he used was childishly simple, so
simple that it completely deceived his investigators. Moreover,
the danger of multiplying these farcical occurrences is very
real. Year by year as interest increases self-appointed
" investigators " will appear with no qualifications whatever
for the task they have set themselves. The cases of Erto,
Guzik and Laszlo show that modern fraudulent mediums are
far more ingenious than those in the past, and consequently
the Imowledge of trickery has to be increased in proportion.
E. J. Dingwall.
CASE
L. 1255. Information Given at a Sitting Concerning
A Matter of which the Sitter had no Normal
Knowledge.
We have received from Mrs. Robinson, 125 Adelaide Road,
N.W. 3, the following report of an incident in which information
'It is hoped that a report on the exposure of Laszlo may be printed later.
June, 1924. Case. 281
was given in a mediumistic trance in regard to a matter con-
cerning which neither the medium nor the sitter had any
normal knowledge at the time of the sitting. Mrs. Eobinson's
original report of the incident (printed below) was written out
in 1918 shortly after the sitting, but was not sent to us until
January of this year.
Statement by Mrs. Robinson :
—
A GIFT OF LINEN (1918).
Mrs. Taylor is a friend of long-standing, whose acquaintance I
renewed some eighteen months ago. We are both deeply interested
in occult matters, though I, personally, have little time for study
or investigation. Whenever we meet, which is seldom, our con-
versation is generally on such topics ; we do not discuss household
matters as we might if we met casually and often.
Mrs. Taylor's mother, Mrs. Bentley, I also knew some years
ago, but I have met her only a few times, and only once during
the last eighteen months since Mrs. Taylor and I resumed our
friendship. 1 had a very strong instinctive liking for Mrs. Bentley,
and I think she had feelings of friendliness for me, in each case
rather out of proportion to the slightness of our acquaintance.
But neither with Mrs. Bentley nor Mrs. Taylor did 1 discuss
concerns of the house, and certainly not the special matter with
which the following experience deals. Our minds had never been
in touch on the question of house-linen ; neither had the least
idea of the condition of my linen cupboard.
At the end of last year (December 6th, 1917) I had one sitting
with Miss Miller 1 the medium, at which Mrs. Taylor was present.
The sitting was interesting, and what the medium told me was
accurate, but no deep impression was made on my mind. After
that sitting I did not meet Mrs. Taylor again for quite six
months.
Meanwhile, at the beginning of this year, Mrs. Bentley died. 1
was very sorry, and thought much of her—and of Mrs. Taylor.
As the spring came, among the many practical matters with
which my mind is always occupied, 1 was obliged to consider
seriously the condition of my house-linen, which was in very sad
need of renewal. I looked longingly in shop windows, and hunted
desperately in sale catalogues, but any chance of buying new
^The medium's name is known to the Society, but a pseudonym is printed here.
282 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1924.
linen seemed to become more and more impossible. The state of
the tablecloths, pillow-cases, and towels was a subject of general
family comment. At last, on Sunday evening, April 7th, the
discussion became critical, my son plainly declaring that he found
the utmost difficulty in drying himself on " holes." But in spite
of this pathetic representation, I was obliged to decide and state
finally that it was entirely impossible for me to buy any house-
linen that would at all meet the problem of our needs.
By the first post next morning, April 8th, I received the
following letter from Mrs. Taylor. Rose M. H. Robinson,
125 Adelaide Road, N.W. 3.
Formerly of
20 Well Walk, N.W. 3.
With the above statement was enclosed a letter from Mrs.
Taylor to Mrs. Robinson as follows :
Afril 1th (1918).!
St. James' Terrace, Regents Park, N.W\ 8.
My Dear Mrs. Robinson,
I had a most wonderful sitting with Miss Miller, and
feel convinced my dear Mother really spoke. Some time or other
I should like to tell you all about it, but now just a little bit.
She spoke of you, and Miss Miller said Mother wanted me to give
you something white of hers.
Then she said, It is house-linen." Mother said she wished you
to have some sheets, pillow-cases, and tablecloths, " because you
needed them."
Is that so ? Strangely enough I had been thinking during the
morning I should have more linen than I needed, as I have half
Mother's as well as my own now, and not room for it all. It is
at present stored at Shoolbred's, but I shall be moving to our
new house (near Chalk Farm tube) at the end of May. Then
I shall be so delighted if you will have this little present from
Mother. I have few tablecloths except kitchen ones, but plenty
to spare of them, and single and double sheets (the latter large
linen ones, not very new, but good still), and pillow-cases in fair
condition also. Nothing is quite new naturally, but as all cotton
and linen things are so scarce a few extra may, I hope, be of
use to you, as dear Mother thinks. Let me know if she is right.
With love, always yours sincerely,
E. M. Taylor.
1 Postmark on envelope, 7th April, 1918.
June, 1924. Case. 283
Mrs. Robinson also enclosed her reply to Mrs. Taylor, as
follows :
20 Well Walk, Hampstead, N.W. 3.
My Dear Mrs. Taylor, ^W^^ 8<A, 1918.
Your kind and thoughtful Mother is perfectly right. I
do need house-linen very badly. For some time the matter has
agitated the family and caused me very anxious consideration.
Only last night—perhaps while you were writing—we were again
discussing the state of things, and I said finally that we must
hang on, as I could not afford any extra expenditure now. For
a long while I have been looking in catalogues and shop windows
with the question of house-linen in my mind, so you may imagine
that your letter this morning stirred me very deeply. It is so
exquisitely dear and considerate .of Mrs. Bentley. I think she
knows that I thank her very much.
If the rest of the messages were as clear and as absolutely
correct as the one connected with myself, you must have had
a wonderful sitting, and I am so glad for you. When you feel
you would like to tell me more about it, please let me know,
because you may be certain that I shall care very much to hear.
I have thought a good deal about you lately, but have not been
to see you because I know that at first one cannot talk much,
if at all, about what hes so near one's heart, but Mrs. Bentley
evidently knows that you and she have both been in my thoughts.
I shall be delighted to have some of her linen—just what you
can really spare. I am specially weak in towels, but tablecloths
and pillow-cases are getting shabby too.
There is another point, too, about the message. Lately I have
been wishing that I could have some real proof that there is some
individual consciousness—apart from my own or that of a medium
—in the touches I have had from the other side. I was saying
so to Miss W only just lately. Your Mother's message really
seems an answer to that, doesn't it ? because you and Miss Miller
at the time were so absolutely out of touch with me that I
don't think you could have known, even subconsciously, that the
small matter of house-linen was worrying me.
It is very wonderful, because it is all very true, and I am so
glad for you, and grateful to Mrs. Bentley, and pleased and happy
for myself.
Much love From your affectionately,
Rose M. H. Robinson.
284 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1924.
At the same time that she seut to the Society the state-
ment and letters printed above, Mrs. Robinson also wrote to
Mrs. Salter, the editor, as follows :
125 Adelaide Koad, N.W. 3,
January 28th. 1924.
I ENCLOSE an account of an incident—with corroborative docu-
ments—which may be of interest to your Society. The account,
as you will see from internal evidence, was written during the
year (1918) in which the incident occurred. . . .
Please note particularly three points in connection with this
matter.
(1) That Miss Miller had no knowledge whatever that Mrs.
Taylor had any surplus Unen to dispose of. And so little did
Mrs. Taylor think of it herself that she enquired of the medium
whether " Something white " might be a shawl ?
(2) That neither Mrs. Taylor nor Mrs. Bentley [Mrs. Taylor's
mother] knew anything at all about my need of linen.
(3) That between December 6, 1917, and April 1918 Mrs.
Taylor and I had not met nor corresponded, except that I wrote
to her on the occasion of her mother's—Mrs. Bentley's—death,
February 10, 1918.
I am sending you these documents with the full consent of
Mrs. Taylor.
I may add that during the last 2| years—that is, since Mrs.
Taylor moved to her present address at 22 Primrose Hill Road,
N.W. 3., and I to this one in Adelaide Road—we have worked
together for automatic communications, which are often quite
interesting and in some instances veridical.
We are both very busy women, chiefly occupied in that most
exacting and practical business of looking after households and
family concerns. Rose M. H. Robinson.
June, 1924. Correspondence. 285
CORRESPONDENCE.
Concerning Miss Radclyffe-Hall's Resignation
FROM THE Council.
3 Kensington Palace Mansions,
De Vere Gardens, W.
May 30th, 1924.
Dear Mrs. Salter,—I shall be glad if you will insert this
letter in the next copy of the Journal, as I wish to make it
quite clear to all our readers, and particularly to those of my
fellow workers who have, in the past, shown appreciation of the
efiorts made by Una Lady Troubridge and myself in the cause
of Psychical Research, that we continue to take a keen interest
in the subject.
In the announcement of my resignation from the Council which
appears in the Journal No. CCCCV.—VOL. XXL, May 1924,
appears the following words :
" her time having become so fully occupied with other matters
as to prevent her from remaining an active member."
I feel that were I to read these words regarding anyone who
had been an active worker in Psychical Research, I should
immediately conclude that the person in question had, either
from entire loss of interest, or from some other cause, ceased to
pursue the subject altogether.
I should like it to be understood that ill health was one of my
principal reasons for tendering my resignation ;
my only other
reason being that my literary work has made greater calls upon
me lately than in the past. I have no intention of giving up
Psychical Research ;
my interest in it has not diminished, but
has rather increased after a good many years of study ; and I am
still a regular sitter with Mrs. Leonard, whose powers, in my
opinion, are greater far to-day than they were at the beginning
of my investigation.
We all know that purely mundane interests may sometimes
intrude themselves to the exclusion of such a subject as ours ;
but I can only repeat that in my case this has not been so, and
as far as I can see at present, never will be.
Yours sincerely,
M. Radclyffe-Hall.
286 Journal of Society for PsycJiical Research. June, 1924.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
The Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research for April
has an account of the phenomena alleged to have occurred in the
presence of the Icelandic medium Indridason. The reports are
reprinted from articles in ncAvspapers and are of little scientific
value. Dr. Prince contributes several reports of cases which iiave
passed through his hands including an account of a sitting with
an American trumpet medium in the light, which affords a good
illustration of the value of an independent report by an expert.
Psycliische Studien for April has an account by Dr. Erich
Kindborg on the famous stone-throwing poltergeist case in Java
in 1831. A documented report of this incident was printed in
Psychische Studien in January, 1881 (pp. 5-12)^ and here Dr. Kind-
borg contributes a further accoimt and criticism. In the same
issue M. Koehler has a short paper upon occult phenomena in
the Old and New Testaments, and M. Reinhold contributes a
letter upon the recent alleged exposures of Rudi Schneider and
Laszlo, to which has now been added the discovery of normal
methods of producing the luminous appearances observed with
the medium Pasquale Erto together with traces of the necessary
substance on the medium's clothing and elsewhere. He maintains
that the scientific world is making a united attack upon psychical
research throughout Europe in the hope of discrediting the in-
vestigators and demonstrating the fraudulent character of the
physical phenomena.
L'Opinion for May 30 has an amusing article by M. Paul
Heuze upon the alleged exposure of the medium Erto. He relates
the story of how Erto has been working in spiritualistic circles
for ten years and was then finally made famous by Dr. William
Mackenzie and his collaborators in Genoa. Then came the sittings
in Paris and at the Institut du Radium a, fragment of ferro-
cerium was found, to be followed by even more damaging dis-
coveries. M. Heuze condemns the investigators : he says that
^ For a collected version of similar stone-throwing incidents see The
Spiritual Magazine, 18G5, VI. pp. 3-17; 49-70; 108-110. Compare also
the well-known Paris case translated by Sir A. R. Wallace and published
in his Miracles and Modern Spiritualism (London, 1896), pp. 284-286; the
Grottendieck case published in the Joimial for May 1906, and the less
known, but equally curious account of the phenomena which occurred in
New Hampshire in the seventeenth century which Governor E. Cranfield
ascribed to " the waggery of some unlucky boy !
" (See C. R., Esq. [i.e.
Richard Chamberlain]). Lithobolia (London, 1698).
June, 1924. Notes on Periodicals. 287
by reason of these revelations the ordinary plain man does not
know what to think. " Remarquons," he observes, " que les
liommes qui nous ont dit d'Erto :
'
nous Vavons mis dans Vim-
fossibilite de truquer ' nous avaient dit exactement la mhne chose
d'Eva Carriere et de Guzik." M. Heaze's conclusion is brief and
to the point, although we do not think he has made his mean-
ing perfectly clear. He says :
" Ancun ])}ienomene mediumnique
ne devrait etre livre a I'etude des hommes de science avant d'avoir
ete d'abord authentique par des specialistes du truquage."
If by this pronouncement M. Heuze means that a committee
of conjurers is to be the first judge, then no genuine medium
would consent to such a plan, and the medium would, in our
view, be right in this decision. But if M. Heuze implies that a
committee of scientists versed in trick methods is to be employed,
then we agree with him, but we must doubt whether that interpre-
tation is justified from his words. What is needed is not the
conjurer but the scientist with the conjurer's knowledge ; the
man who will not confuse, as M. Heuze has done, the different
types of mediumship such as those of Eva, Guzik or Erto. Con-
trol is to be varied as the types of phenomena var)^ A control
desirable with Erto is totally distinct from that desirable with
Willy Schneider or with Frau Silbert. Similarly no knowledge
of places of concealment will assist an investigator of Ossowiecki
and Bert Reese. The phenomena of sealed l^illet reading appear
the same in both cases. They are in reality totally different and
the control varies accordingly. Genuine mediumship is full of
suspicious appearances, which can easily be wrongly interpreted
by those unaccustomed to the singular phenomena of the seance
room. Accusations of fraud are then launched against the un-
fortunate mediums supported by no real evidence and credited by
persons who, although not openly hostile, are secretly of the
opinion that all physical phenomena are fraudulent. Thus in
the Tagespost published in Graz on Sunday, March 23, 1924,
(morning edition), occurs a long article by Professor Dr. Hans
Benndorf in which he publishes letters from various persons
accusing Frau Silbert of gross and deliberate fraud. He says that
he has received accounts " from a whole series of persons in
whose honour and integxity he has full confidence " in which the
medium is openly accused of trickery. One account says that
the luminous appearances seen with this medium are due to
small detonating caps.
Diu-ing one of the sittings a Mr. Schmidtbauer turned on a
flash lamp and saw Frau Silbert standing up, whilst on the
table lay the remains of one of these explosive caps. Another
report narrates how the alleged teleplasm was seen beneath the
table and how it resembled " a rather coarse, yellowish-white
woollen stocking." The next revelation is made by a student,
Mr. T. von Somogyi. His story is as follows. At a sitting with
Frau Silbert at the house of Dr. Reisch, his host and hostess
288 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1924.
experienced repeated touches. Desirous of seeing the teleplasm
he crept under the table unseen by anyone in the circle. Al-
though, however, the light above the table was apparently insuffi-
cient for the circle to notice the absence of one of their number,
the light below enabled this keen-sighted witness to observe that
Frau Silbert was wearing a high laced boot upon her left foot.
This boot parted in the middle, one portion remaining on the
ground and the other being still fastened to the medium's leg.
Thus the foot was freed from the shoe and was responsible for
the touches, which Mr. Somogyi admits were done with incredible
skill. The same gentleman, whose eyesight deserves serious in-
vestigation, describes the method employed for producing an
alleged independent movement of a cigarette case. We translate
the passage in full : It is headed " The Flying Cigarette Case
"
and reads as follows :
" From the same sitting. The second
observation which I made and which is free from objection is
the following. My brother Viktor von Somogyi had laid his
cigarette case under the table. Some time had elapsed and we
see the case lying undisturbed under the table. I remain sitting
in my place noticing everything with the keenest attention.
Frau Reisch goes to the sideboard to look for a bell which we
wanted to put under the table. Everyone's eyes and attention
are directed towards the sideboard and Frau Reisch. At the
same moment, the case, which we had just before seeu under the
table flew to Frau Reisch in the corner of the room. Everybody
was much astonished at this remarkable phenomenon. I made
the following clear and distinct observation. The medium, with
a short and energetic movement of her right hand which was
made as quick as lightning liad thrown the cigarette case into
the corner."
The accusation imi^lies that the medium first of all secured
the case and then threw it. It is remarkable that Mr. Somogyi
did not see her stoop and pick it up when he was gazing at her
with the keenest attention.
The next story is from Director Wahrlich. He attended a sitting
in the summer of 1919, was repeatedly touched, seized the structure
and found that he had the left foot of the medium clothed in a
white stocking and that the half shoe was left under the table.
Such are the stories contributed bj^ the Professor of Physics
in the University of Graz to the public press. We believe that
if similar observations had been printed supporting supernormal
phenomena they would have received but scant attention, but as
" exposures " they are considered valuable and treated with
serious attention.
In the Revue Metapsychique appears a translation of Dr.
Schrenck-Notzing's report upon the medium Laszlo ; the con-
cluding part of the rejDort of the Institute upon Guzik and a
reply to Professor Zimmer by Dr. Geley in reference to the
former's article upon histotysis in insects. E. J. D.
No. CCCCVII.—Vol. XXI. •
July, 1924
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
The Rooms of the Society at 31 Tavistock Square, London,
W.C., will be closed after Thursday, July 31st, re-opening
on Wednesday, September 10th. Correspondence will be
forwarded to the staff during this time. The next
number of the " Journal " will be issued in October.
NEW MEMBEES.
Librarian, Dutch Society for Psychical Eesearch, Amsterdam,
Holland.
Stevenson, Mrs. Amy F. G., 11- Bedford Road, Toronto, Canada.
Van Dyk, H. M., Lutmastraat 3 Bel Elage, Amsterdam, Holland.
Wilson, Mrs. Orme, 3 East 64th Street, New York, U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 212th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Tuesday, June 17th, 1924, at 3 p.m.
—
The President in the chair. There were also present : Mr.
W. W. Baggally, Mr. E. N. Bennett, the Hon. Everard Feild-
ing, Sir Lawrence Jones, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ; also Mr. E.
J. Dingwall, Research Officer, and Miss I. Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Four new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for May, 1924, were presented and
taken as read.
290 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 192*
PRIVATE MEETING.
The 80th Private Meeting for Members and Associates was.
held in the Rooms of the Society at 31 Tavistock Square^
London, W.C., on Tuesday, June 17th, 1924, at 4.30 p.m.—The
President in the chair.
A Paper entitled " Some Reminiscences of and Some Lessons
from Fifty Years of Psychical Research " was read by Sir
William F. Barrett, F.R.S., and will, it is hoped, be published
later in the Proceedings.
SPECIAL DONATIONS.
The Endowment Fund.
Anonymous ------ £160 0 0
Research ; and Furnishing of the New Seance Room.
Anonymous £200 0 0
Neil M'Wharrie 150 0 0
Printing Expenses.
Anonymous £200 0 0
General Fund.
Anonymous ------ £40 0 0
Mrs. Coates ------ 0 10 0
CASES.
L. 1526. Apparition of a Living Person.
We print below a report on two incidents in which an
apparition of a living person was seen at a time when the
thoughts of the person seen, apparently the agent, were
strongly directed towards the percipient. The names and
addresses of the various persons concerned are known to the
Society, but pseudonyms have been substituted here. The
case has been sent to us by Sir Oliver Lodge to whom the
original reports and corroborative statements were addressed.
The first report of the case was contained in a letter written
to Sir Oliver Lodge by the agent. Miss Stanley, as follows :
[Received by Sir Oliver Lodge early in November, 1922.]
I know you will forgive a letter from me as I think you may
find it interesting from a psychic standpoint. I have had (without
July, 1924 Casc : Apparition of a Living Person 291
having studied psychology to any extent) two very definite
instances of materialisation, I believe it is called.
One occasion in Vancouver 3 years ago. My mother was ill and
I was tending her in our little flat till we came home to England,
and shortly before leaving a friend asked me to go to the theatre
with her for a last time. Having settled my mother for the night,
I was ready to go, and my mother said, " Now, Marjorie, do not
come in to me when you come home to-night unless I call you,"
and I said I would not go in.
At 11.30 p.m. my friend Miss M said before we parted
" Do come in to have some refreshment, cake, cocoa or something."
I said " No, thank you, I think I must go straight home, as
Mother might wake up and be anxious if she found I was not in."
But Miss M persisted in asking me, and I thought, I suppose,
very intensely as to how Mother was, and if I could stay out
later, and I ended by going, as I thought I should require some-
thing to eat, and if I got it at home I might make a noise and
disturb Mother, as our flat was very small. I stayed out about
an hour more and went quietly to bed on my return.
Imagine my amazement when the next morning the first thing
my mother asked me was " Marjorie, why did you come in to me
last night when I asked you not to." Of course I told her I
had not thought of going in to her, as that had been arranged.
She said she saw me come in, bend over her, as I had often done
—
without speaking. She saw the light from the landing behind me
—and then I went out—and she went ofi to sleep again.
The second occasion of materialisation occurred a few weeks ago.
I went to visit a house where several ladies were sitting. One
was a stranger to me, but we spoke and she in a very jaunty way
told me how ill she was after many operations, aged 69, what
could you expect, etc. etc. ! adding that since last January she
had been told to use certain drops for her eyes (which had some
disease) also to bathe them every day with hot water. All this
treatment caused her agony and her eyes were steadily getting
worse—but she persisted in the treatment ordered. I was so
amazed at such faith in what was doing her an injury that
I exclaimed, I have never seen such marvellous faith " and was
about to leave the room, when I turned to some one and said,
" You have not told me this lady's name." I was told the name
and I left the house. I must here add that I have great faith in
292 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1924
healing through the Power of the Spirit of God—and that night
in my silence to God I urgently pleaded for the healing of this
woman, and she was vividly in my mind with all her sufferings,
as I asked for her.
Two days later I again went to the Convalescent Home, and
not seeing the lady of my prayers, asked if I might go up to her
bedroom and see her. I went up and asked her how she was.
Her reply was " Did you pray for me the other night ?
" I said
" yes, I did." She said she had noticed my asking for her name.
She added " I thought you had, for you came into my room
(and she pointed to where I stood) and you looked just as you
do now. I felt vibrations coming from you and I felt happier and
better, and you vanished."
In concluding I had felt intensely for this woman—I'm supposed
to be rather intense !
—but I was most astonished and gratified at
what I heard . . .
E. Marjorie Stanley.
In reply to this letter Sir Oliver Lodge wrote on November
14, 1922, asking for some corroborative evidence. Subsequently
he received from Miss Stanley the following letter :
Dec. Uh, 1922.
Many thanks for your letter of Nov. 14th in answer to mine,
in which I told you two instances of telepathy (or as I thought
it was thought materialised). I have pleasure in now enclosing
letters from the other people concerned, which 1 hope may be of
use, should the two instances be thought worthy of record in the
S.P.R.'s private Journal. . . .
E. Marjorie Stanley.
With this letter were enclosed the two following corroborative
statements.
Letter from Mrs. Stanley.
My daughter has asked me to corroborate an experience she has
had, which I will now relate :
—We were at the time living in
Vancouver. I was not in good health, and she did not like leaving
me and for some time had not spent an evening out. However,
this evening she went out, at about 8 o'clock, leaving me in bed,
and I particularly told her not to come into my room when she
came back. 1 soon fell asleep, a dreamless sleep. After two hours
I should think, I woke to find my daughter stooping over me.
July, 1924 Case : Apparition of a Living Person 293
There was no light in the room, but there appeared to be in the
passage, which showed me my daughter's figure plainly as the
door appeared open. Then it all disappeared and I was asleep
again. In the morning I asked my daughter why she had come
into my room as I asked her not to, and was much amazed to
hear she had not been. E. Stanley.
I Letter from Miss Florence.
After visiting another patient in the house Miss Stanley came
in to see me and on telling her how I dreaded the night, which is
my worst time, she helped and encouraged me greatly with silent
prayer by my bed, and told me she would again pray for me
before she went to sleep that night. Awaking in the early hours
in greater pain than usual, I longed for her presence—for one
feels so lonely when suffering in the night. My room is quite
dark, as my eyes are weak, but I saw her quite clearly at the
foot of my bed as she had stood before leaving me in the evening.
She just smiled and disappeared. Nearly a fortnight after she
appeared again, this time only her face and a greyish cloud round
her, but all was clear. S. Florence.
It will be seen that there is a discrepancy on one point
between the statements of Miss Stanley and Miss Florence ;
. for whereas Miss Florence speaks of Miss Stanley having
mentioned her intention of praying for her that night on the
day of their first meeting, that is to say before the hallucina-
tory impression occuxred, it would seem from Miss Stanley's
statement as though nothing had been said of this matter imtil
later. This point however is not of great moment, for the
interest of the case Ues in the circumstance that on each of
two occasions Miss Stanley seems to have caused an external-
ised hallucinatory image of herself to appear to the person
towards whom she directed her thou2;hts.
L. 1257. A Case of Reciprocal Telepathy.
We have received the following case from Sir William Barrett,
who came across it in looking through some old letters from
F. W. H. Myers. Sir William Barrett writes as follows :
June 7 [1924].
Though remote in date the following curious case of reciprocal
telepathy may be worth publishing.
294 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1924
My friend the late Mr. Glover of Stephen's Green, Dubhn, told
me about 1891 of a case of telepathy he had heard from Dr.
Hobart of Cork. This I communicated to Frederic Myers, who
wrote to Dr. Hobart. The latter replied to Myers as follows :
Nov. 4, 1891.
On one occasion when I was working in a room and a
friend at the other end—distant say 10 feet—was near a
window reading, his back being turned to me, in a day dream
I seemed to speak to him and to a third friend, then many
miles away. Our discussion became animated and a slight
altercation arose which was settled amicably.
The whole episode occupied, I should say, 5 to 6 minutes.
It would have passed away from my memory, but to my
astonishment next day my friend said .
" I had a queer idea
while in the room with you yesterday that you were speaking
to me and our friend Brown came in and in his usual way
said a few unpleasant things—so and so, and so and so. He
repeated word for word the ipse verba of the imaginary con-
versation of the day before. Not a sound or sight could by
any possibility have conveyed the facsimile either to or from
one to the other and I cannot say in which of us the drama
originated, but it was a literal transcript of ideas, words and
actions of .3 persons, 2 only being actually present. I have
never ascertained if the absent .^rd had a similar experience.
Myers wrote to me to ask if I could get independent details
from all the persons concerned. This however was difficult to
obtain, and I don't remember the result. W. F. Barrett.
TWO UNUSUAL DREAMS.
I. A Sense-Impression lasting into Waking Consciousness.
The report of this experience which we print below was
xeceived through Mrs. Leaning, a Member of the Society, who
sent it to the Editor, Mrs. Salter, with the following letter :
Elmstead,
Bpsoji Lane, Tadworth,
Surrey, April 9th, 1924.
Dear Mrs. Salter,
I have just received permission to use the enclosed,
which I have transcribed as it stands. It is an example, I think,
July, 1924 Two Unitsual Dreams 295
of a not very large class, and the normal sense being blocked
makes it a better case than some. It is part of a more compli-
"Cated account, and I have a good deal of side hght on the possible
meaning of the dream, the temperament of the dreamer, and the
iamily circumstances. The writer (this for your private informa-
tion only) is a Mr. H C , and the dreamer is his wife.
In asking if I might send in the dream to our S.P.R., I told
him that my name would appear as the responsible communicator,
-and that the Journal being for private circulation neither he nor
his wife would ever see it. She is exceedingly shy and reticent,
and it is therefore only through him that we can get at her
experience. However, she had the dream on April 2nd, he wrote
it down in full on April 4th, it was in my hands on the 5th,
-and will be in yours by the 10th—if you think it worth while
to use.
Yours sincerely,
F. E. Leaning.
Copy of MS. sent to F. E. Leaning.
April 2nd, 1924. [The dreamer] was back in her old home in
South Kensington, and in her mother's bedroom. She had a
sense of being alone in the house. Going to the dressing-table,
she picked up a bottle of Russian violet scent of which her
jnother was very fond : she was going out and she thought she
would sprinkle some on her handkerchief. The bottle containing
the scent was labelled " Russian Violet," and such as she was
accustomed to see when a young girl. Directly she took up
the bottle, she felt an " electric shock " uj) her arm, and the
liquid began bubbling and hissing and seemed " to become alive."
Then there issued from the bottle a vapour. A feeling of great
horror came over her, and she walked with the bottle to a writing-
table to place it down (the furniture was exactly in the same
position as in her mother's time), the vapour meanwhile streaming
over her shoulder as she walked. She then proceeded upstairs
to her own bedroom. The whole house seemed full of the vapour
and the pungent smell of the violet scent. She awoke in fear,
and with an overpowering smell of the perfume, which lingered
for a time as she lay awake.
An important point is this. Owing to a bad catarrhal cold,
her normal sense of smell has disappeared : she can scent nothing,
£" Sufiers much from catarrh."—Letter of April 8th.]
296 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1924
This is the second time she has awakened to the scent of
violets. The first occasion was, apparently, unaccompanied by a.
dream—if she had dreamed, she did not recollect it.
II. A Dream Memory recovered after Many Years.
In this second case the dreamer, Mr. Ernest S. Thomas, an
Associate of the Society, sent us a record of his dream in
a letter to the Editor, Mrs. Salter, as follows :
Quiney's Shottery,
Stratford on Avon, 21/4/24.
Dear Madam,
The following is an example of the solution of elements
of a dream dreamt as a child, some forty years after the event,
on a recurrence of the dream. If such events are as uncommon
as I imagine them to be, the details may be of interest.
As a child of six (under six) in Ceylon I used to play beside
a large coffee store of pink brick, with rows and columns of
windows like a mill. The immensity of the building to a small
child, with its majestic waterwheel and cascade of water from
the mountain behind, used to fill me with awe.
A vivid dream I had at this time is deej^ly fixed in my memory,
as it recurred frequently for some fifteen years, but not after
that until recently. Walking in my dream along a well-known
path on the outskirts of a jungle, I saw a large tiger rolling
and gambolling about the foot of a tree on the sun-dappled
grass. It sat up, looked at me in a very human way, and I
was filled with awe but not terror of it, or fear of its attack.
This feeling always recurred with the dream. The tiger was pink:
with black stripes. It must have been after an interval of at
least twenty-five years that I had the dream again some two
months ago.
On waking, while still drowsy, I let my thoughts run to see
if I could get a clue to the dream content. A vision of the
pink brick store with dark windows in lines down the wall
flashed through my mind. I had not thought of the dream or
the store for many years, and had never associated them together
before. The human-faced tiger, it occurred to me quite recently,
and since the last dream, was probably suggested by the " tiger
"
mummers, Tamils fantastically painted and dressed up, sometimes.
July , 1924 Tivo Unusual Dreams 297
as tigers, with painted yellow and black, or blue and black,
stripes on their bodies, who went about dancing and performing
with music, at the time of the Mohammedan Hassan-Hussein
(Hobson-Jobson as the English called it in Ceylon) festival.
I used to be terrified of these people. On jungle walks I
felt a pleasureable-fearful expectancy of meeting wild animals,
but not tigers, as I knew my elementary natural history.
I feel confident that these elements explain this dream, inter-
preted after a lapse, as I have said, of some forty years.
Yours faithfully,
Ernest S. Thomas.
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF MISS STELLA C.
The May number of the Journal of the American S.P.R. contains
• a full report by one of our members, Mr. Harry Price, on his
investigation of the mediumistic faculties of the young lady known
as Miss Stella C.
Part of his results have already been printed elsewhere, but the
present report contains the full record of each sitting and con-
stitutes Mr. Price's complete account of his investigations.
It would be impossible in a summary to give any adequate
account of the various phenomena described. They include
specimens of almost every variety of " mediumistic " activity, and
in the case of many of them the reader has to choose between
admitting their supernormal character and assuming the fraudulent
collusion of one or more of the investigators combined with
incredible mal-observation by the others.
Apart from the extraordinary nature of the phenomena observed,
the report is particularly valuable on account of the careful
records which were taken throughout cf all the conditions of the
experiment which were capable of exact measurement. These
included various data regarding the physical condition of the
medium, e.g. her body temperature and pulse rate, as well as full
particulars of the surrounding conditions in the seance room, and
the readings of one of the recording instruments used for the
latter purpose formed one of the most curious of the phenomena
obseryed. This instrument is a thermometer designed to record
the lowest temperature to which it is exposed after being set at
the beginning of the experiment. This is shown by the position.
298 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1924
of an iron pin in the bore of the thermometer. This pin can
only be moved normally either by cooling the instrument or by
the action of a magnet brought near to it. It was found on
various occasions that the pin at the close of the sitting had been
moved to a position corresponding to a fall in temperature of
several degrees. Since all present appear to have agreed that the
instrument was correctly set at the beginning and not interfered
with before the reading was taken, Mr. Price is driven to assume
i.hat the movement of the pin was supernormally produced, and it
seems impossible on the evidence to avoid such a conclusion.
Mr. Price goes further and, correlating the movement of the pin
with the sensations of cold experienced by the sitters, claims to
" have absolutely proved that the temperature of the seance room
falls." Perhaps that is the most probable cause for the move-
ment, but if the psychic activities of the medium are able to
produce raps on distant walls it seems conceivable that they may
also affect the pin of which the movement would then be an
instance of telekinesis.
Among other ingenious instrumental aids to investigation, Mr.
Price also describes a device which he has named the " Tele-
kinetoscope." This consists of a small electric lamp which can
normally be lighted only by the depression of a small contact flap
which is placed inside a brass bowl of which the open top is
closed by a toughened soap film.
The wires to this contact come out apparently over the top of
the bowl through small openings which are not closed by the soap
film, and these wires are heavily insulated throughout their course.
Under these conditions Mr. Price was able to observe the lighting
up of the lamp, which normally could only be brought about by
the depression of the switch which was protected by the soap
film. Here again there is clear evidence of a supernormal event,
but it is difficult to agree fully with Mr. Price's claim that it is
proved that the psychic force can penetrate a soap film. We
know nothing about psychic forces. It may have penetrated the
brass cup. It may have followed the course of the electric wires
over the edge of the cup. It may have penetrated the rubber
insulation cf the cable and so brought the wires into electrical
contact. While the experiment is of the utmost value and
interest, the deduction from it is one of several possible alter-
Datives, and while Mr. Price is fully justified in putting it forward
July, 1924 The Mediumship of Miss Stella C. 299
as a hypothesis he cannot in the present state of our ignorance
claim it as the only one. Other experiments described were
carried out in order to measure the pressures exerted super-
normally on prepared surfaces and to obtain permanent records
of such pressures on smoked surfaces. The results are of the
greatest interest, but cannot be adequately summarised here, and
it is certain that everyone who contemplates a similar investigation
will refer to Mr. Price's full description. Perhaps the most
startling of all the phenomena was the prediction on April 12 of
the contents of the front page of the Daili/ Mail of May 19.
The prediction was recorded in writing at the time and signed by
all the sitters, and while it was not accurate in every detail it
was correct enough to exclude absolutely any suggestion of chance
coincidence. Mr. Price was able to find out from the Daily Mail
that at the date of the sitting the advertisers had booked a
different picture for May 19, and only about Aj)ril 28 changed to
the one finally displayed, but it would have added greatly to the
interest of the case in relation to book and newspaper tests if he
had been able to find out from the advertisers when and why the
original booking and the change were made and at what date the
picture printed was first drawn, and if at any time a poster had
been submitted to them which resembled the prediction even more
closely than the one actually printed.
The series of sittings eventually came to an end through causes
outside Mr. Price's control, though he concludes his paper on a
note of hope that at some time in the future it may be possible
to resume them. In that hope everyone who is interested in
Psychical Eesearch will join.
V. J. W.
• "
COERESPONDENCE.
Brain and Speech.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—In connection with Sir Oliver Lodge's article on this
subject, it may be worth while to record my experience when
teaching a child to read. The child was born with a malformation
of the spine, which was described to me as a " thickening of
the spinal cord " ; the result was that the nerves did not act
normally on the muscles ; it was as if a drag was on all the
300 Jotvrnal of Society for Psychical Research July, ]924
wheels of life in the mechanism of the body. The case was a.
rather rare one. I undertook the education of the child, who was-
a relative. His intelligence and will-power were assets which
made the task very interesting. I found when he could read
that he would suddenly be unable to pronounce quite a simple
word, such as and or I, which at another time he could pro-
nounce easily. I knew that mentally he recognised the word,
and that his muscles could pronounce it ; the hitch was not in
mind or muscle ; no doubt Sir Oliver Lodge's sentence exactly
describes the condition—it was " not due to mental confusion at
all, but to a lack of adequate control of the mechanism ; so
that there was a block at some junction on the way to the
speech centres, an obstruction which had to be got round by
some indirect path."
I tried several devices to " get round," in order to avoid his
making a painful struggle, which might have become a habit.
Sometimes I told him to spell the word and pass on. When
he had spelt it he sometimes pronounced it easily, at other times
to substitute another word which had a similar meaning, and I
also suggested to him to look up, taking his attention from
the printed word, and then he could pronounce it. The device
of substituting one word for another is similar to that apparently
adopted by " controls," referred to (p. 265) in Sir Oliver Lodge's
article.
With regard to names, many persons like myself are conscious
of getting an initial or syllable of a personal name when the whole
cannot be recalled. These sort of experiences corroborate a remark
which occurs in one of Mr. F. W. H. Myers' articles, to the effect
that the difficulty which discarnate spirits seem to have in " con-
trolling " a medium may help us to understand the difficulties
which we all have more or less in completely controlling our own
mechanisms.
H. A. Dallas.
REVIEW.
L'Ectoplasmie et la Clairvoyance. By Dr. Gustave Geley. Paris
(F. Alcan), 1924. Pp. iv.-445. Price 35 fr. net.
This volume is the first of two works by Dr. Geley upon the
phenomena examined by psychical researchers. It comprises what
the author describes as a simple exposition of the facts. No
July, 1924 Review 301
-theories are discussed, and all philosophical data are held over
ior the succeeding volume.
The first section is devoted to an introduction to the practical
^study of mediumship. It insists upon a detailed course of study
of the meaning of mediumship before embarking upon the most
elementary inquiry into the phenomena presented. For Dr. Geley
a medium is a being whose constituent elements, mental, dynamic,
or material, are capable of momentary decentralisation. Medium-
ship is an hereditary gift, and like artistic gifts has a tendency
-to show itself early in life. Beheving that mediums are potenti-
ally capable of producing both mental and physical phenomena,
Dr. Geley maintains that the one class can give place to the other,
or vice versa, even when a medium has been presenting one class
only for many years. Proceeding, the author examines the con-
<iitions necessary for the production of good phenomena. In the
medium he maintains that good health, good temper, confidence
in the investigators, and a state of general ease are desirable,
whilst in the experimenters, health, passivity, and patience are
paramount necessities. With regard to the control of the sittings
Dr. Geley believes that the holding of both the medium's hands
is an essential precaution, but in his analysis of the problem of
fraud he forgets the principal point in all mediumistic deception.
To him the three necessary conditions for good conjuring are
(a) liberty of movement for the performer, (6) apparatus or a
faked room, (c) confederacy. But he omits entirely the important
factor of misdirection. Slate-writing mediums often have no
apparatus and no confederates. Their very methods cause their
investigators to imagine that their liberty is restricted. Mis-
direction is used by such performers to such an extent that the
sitters leave the seance maintaining that certain things have
happened which have never happened at all. Without a knowledge
of misdirection control is useless. The very fact of the medium
insisting upon his hands being held may be for the express
purpose of controlHng his controllers and keeping them at arm's
reach. Dr. Geley is right when he says (p. 24) that the control
must vary according to circumstances. But the variations must
be made according to the phenomena presented.
In the first part of this volume following the introduction,
Dr. Geley has collected a number of instances of alleged clair-
voyance of different types. Some of the material has already
302 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1924
been made familiar to readers of the Revue Metapsychique, especi-
ally that relating to M. Ossowiecki. The most important hitherto
impublished material is an account of some of Dr. Geley's sittings
with Eva C. in 1918. They are important and highly interesting.
Many of the phenomena developed slowly under the direct gaze
of the observers. Fingers, faces, and flat disc-like objects grew
from amorphous masses of substance, there being no closing of
the curtains between the successive appearances.
Chapter II. is devoted to the paraffin-mould tests with Kluski,
which have already been published, as is also the case with
the accounts of the phenomena occurring with the mediums
Guzik and Erto, which are described in Chapters III. and IV.
Chapter IX. is devoted almost wholly to an attack upon the
methods of spiritistic circles. Styling them pitiable comedies,
Dr. Geley declares that they are only possible on account of the
incompetence of the directors and the absence of critical faculty
amongst the sitters. Such sittings, he writes, have started in
Paris and are spreading to the country, and it is impossible to
say how far the scourge will spread.
All experimenters, he concludes, who consent to inquire into
mediumistic phenomena without sufficient control are putting
themselves upon the level of fools who let themselves be duped
and who are making themselves the accomj)lices of those who
deceive them (p. 440).
E. J. D.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
The Occult Review for May has a stimulating note upon occult-
lore in Brittany by Mr. Spence, who maintains that this com-
paratively virgin soil offers a rich harvest to the patient inquirer,,
the editor contributes a series of observations on Mr. Sauter's
recently translated book Amoyig the Brahmins and Pariahs and
Mr. Span contributes a rather superficial and dogmatic account
of hypnotic suggestion.
In La Lutte four la Metapsychique (Paris : P. Leymarie, 1924),
M. Sudre deals with the present position of psychical research
with special reference to the recent series of- alleged exposures
upon the Continent. We do not agree with his diagnosis of
the situation, neither can we assent to his estimate of the find-
July, 1924 Notes on Periodicals 303
ings of the Sorbonne Commission with regard to Guzik. But the
book is interesting inasmuch as it throws light upon a point of
view which many hold respecting psychic phenomena. M. vSudre
is distressing himself needlessly over the recent exposures. That
they hinder research and cause much bitterness is certainly true.
But metapsychical studies are still young and it is only through
such revelations as those recently made in Paris and Buda-Pesth
that investigators will at last learn that certainty can only be
achieved by ceaseless vigilance, scrupulous accuracy, and above all
a minute acquaintance with the limits of deception.
Psyche for April has an article on hand prints in relation to
mental development. The author, Dr. F. G. Crookshank, has been
examining the palmar markings of Mongolian imbeciles and has
been noting certain characteristics to which Dr. R. Langdon-
Down had already drawn attention in 1909. Dr. Crookshank
concludes that the subject is of a great anthropological and
psychological interest, suggesting that here may be found some
empirical basis for the study of palmistry. It is regrettable that
palmistry has never received the attention it undoubtedly deserves.
Perhaps when the name has been changed to something else
and the subject made respectable by Dr. Crookshank, Professor
Wood Jones ^ and others, the more timid inquirers may come
forward and confirm the findings of those who have lung main-
tained that palmar markings have a certain significance which
it is unwise entirely to neglect. In the same issue Dr. Suttie
contributes an able discussion of the physiological theories under-
lying M. Romain's alleged discovery of certain paroptic phenomena.
He concludes that in the first place the phenomena should be
investigated by psychical researchers with their long and varied
experience of sources of error as seen in the seance room, a
conclusion in which we most certainly agree with him.
The Scientific American for April has a summary of results
obtained by the Commission. It pleads for better co-operation
on the part of mediums and concludes by an offer to European
mediums. This offer, which is the first business proposition put
forward by the Scientific American since the commission com-
menced its work, consists of a promise to pay full travelling
expenses and maintenance whilst in the United States. The
offer is extended amongst others to Hope, Erto, Mrs. Deane, and
1
Cf. F. W. Jones, The Principles of Anatomy as seen in the hand. London, 1920.
304 Journal of Society for Psychical Researcli July, 1924
Willy Schneider, with the amusing provision that the last named
offers some defence to "a very recent newspaper story " con-
demning his fraudulent practices and those of his brother, Rudi
Schneider. It is somewhat incongruous that of all the mediums
Willy should have been chosen as the one from whom is de-
manded some defence against the supposed allegations of an
obscure newspaper.
The May issue has an account of Dr. Brack's experiments in
telepathy. The results, which are sufficiently startling, were
obtained with four subjects mostly under hypnotic influence.
In 108 sittings, 20 were positive and 56 negative, the remaining
32 showing only partial success. Drawings were the principal
subjects chosen for the tests and the subjects' copies offer a
remarkable similarity to the originals. Certain points in Dr.
Brack's experiments are of considerable interest. Thus the occur-
rence of a lag in the supposed impulse was illustrated by the
subject drawing something which was not intended, this drawing
being the last one presented in which a failure was scored. A
reversal of this was also noticed by Dr. Brack, which it is much
more difficult to account for upon any hypothesis.
OBITUARY.
De. Gustave Geley.
At the moment of going to press we have learnt with much
regret of the death of Dr. Gustave Geley, Director of the Institut
Metapsijchique at Paris, and a Corresponding Member of this Society.
Dr. Geley's death occurred as a result of an aeroplane accident
when he was on his way home from Warsaw, where he had
gone in pursuit of his psychical investigations.
A further notice, giving some account of Dr. Geley's important
contributions to psychical research, will appear in the Journal for
October.
No. CCCCVIIL—Vol. XXI. October, 1924
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A
GENERAL MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
WILL BE HELD IN THE HOUSE OF
THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF MEDICINE
(IN THE ROBERT BARNES HALL),
I WIMPOLE STREET, LONDON, W.,
(ENTRANCE IN HENRIETTA STREET),
On FRIDAY, OCTOBER ^\st, 1924, ai 5.30 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" Des Conditions de la Certitude dans les Sciences
. . Metapsychiques
"
WILL BE READ IN FRENCH BY
Professor CHARLES RICHET.
N.B.
—
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names
at the door. Visitors will be adTfiitted on production ofan invitation
card signed by a Member or Associate. Each Member or Associate
is allowed to invite one frien.d.
30 6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Oct., 1924
OBITUAEY NOTICES.
Sir George Beilby.
Since the last issue of the Journal the Society has suffered
a seiious loss in the death on August 1st of a Member of their
Council—Sir George Beilby, F.E.S., LL.D., in his 74th year.
Sir George Beilby joined the Society in 1914, and was co-opted
on to the Council in 1920. He was much interested in our
work, and had himself contributed an interesting case of a
remarkable apparition or rather waking vision of a dying man
which occurred to a lady he knew, and the evidence for which
was very carefully collected. It was printed in the Journal,
Vol. XVII., and again in Mrs. Sidgwick's paper on " Phantasms
of the Living," Proceedings, Vol. XXXIII., p. 2'1:.3. He also
took part in the experiments with Eva C, and helped with
some suggestions.
Sir George Beilby was an industrial chemist of great dis-
tinction, and the work he has done in connection with fuel and
fuel economy and allied subjects is of great and lasting value.
The practical value of his work to the nation won him his
knighthood in 1916 ; and his scientific investigation into the
cell structures and properties of coke, and more generally his
experimental investigation of the microstructure and physical
properties of solids in various states of aggregation led to his
election to a fellowship of the Royal Society.
He was a most generous and disinterested man, and much
beloved by all who knew him.
Professor Falcomer.
We have also to record with regret the death on July 15,
1924, of Professor Marco Tullio Falcomer, of the Regio Institute
Tecnico e Nautico at Venice. Prof. Falcomer was elected an
Associate in March 1892, and an Hon. Associate in 1901, and
maintained his connexion with the society up to the time of
his death.
A FICTITIOUS COMMUNICATOR.
It is thought desirable by the Council that an account should
be placed on record of a case which at first seemed likely to
Oct., 1924 A Fictitious Communicator 307
be a valuable one, but which finally broke down under
investigation. It at least shows the importance of careful
research. All names of persons (including that of the com-
municator ultimately proved to be fictitious) and names of
places have been changed in what follows.
Towards the end of July 1922 a Mr. and Mrs. Brown, not
previously known to Miss Newton, called on her at 20 Hanover
Square, and told her they had obtained in a private circle
some interesting communications purporting to come from a
deceased French soldier whom they had never heard of before,
and that they had verified the information that had been
given. They asked if such evidence was of value to the
Society. She replied that if the information was provably
outside the scope of the sitters' knowledge it would be of
great value. They said they would consult their fellow-sitters,
and if all agreed would report the case fully to us.
About the middle of August a note was received from
Mr. Jones, writing as the person at whose house the sittings
in question had been held, stating that he had heard from
Mr. Brown of his call, that they were by no means forgetful
of the importance of the matter, and that towards the end of
September or a little later he would write again with a view
to re-opening it. Accordingly on 7th October, 1922, he wrote
again to say that "if it should be the wish of your Society,
and if certain conditions w^hich we feel bound to make are
agreed to, we shall be pleased to put you in possession of all
the facts of the case . . . together with the documents appertain-
ing thereto." He went on to suggest an interview at the
S.P.R. rooms, and gave the following account of the sittings :
—
. . . Our small circle consists of Mr. [Brown] and his wife, myself
and my wife, and my sister, the last of whom has taken notes
of any strange occurrences. Very occasionally some well-known
personal friend has sat with us.
Our sittings have been held with fair regularity on Saturday
evenings over a period of about eighteen months—since the death,
in fact, of my second sister, who—so we are convinced—has been
our chief visitant all this time.
Extraordinary phenomena have from time to time occurred,
which, though interesting and significant, I will now pass by
308 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Oct., 1924
beyond saying that among them a table weighing about 25 lbs.
has frequently turned completely over without contact and that
loud raps are of common occurrence. But this is not what is
immediately before us. We have received a large number of
messages—if I may so term them—from my sister and others,
but nothing which could be deemed conclusive as evidence till
the occurrence of the present case. ' ••:(/ i-r .m;-.
Mr. Jones goes on to say that they are aware that all the
circumstances connected with such a matter must be closely
examined, and that they would therefore fall in with any
reasonable suggestion made on behalf of the Society—desiring
as much as tbe Society that a good case should be established.
An interview between Mr. Brown and Mr. Jones and Miss
Newton accordingly took place at 31 Tavistock Square about
the middle of October 1922, and notes of sittings and other
documents were left for Miss Newton's consideration, with the
stipulation that she was not to communicate any names with-
out permission or to approach the gentleman whom I will call
Monsieur C, who had confirmed the statements of the supposed
communicator. The reason given for this was that Monsieur C.
bad desired that bis correspondence with Mr. Brown should be
regarded as confidential, and had been annoyed by some
enquiries whicb he stated had been already made by the
sitters concerning him. As a matter of fact, these enquiries,
tbough contemplated, and though thought by some of the
sitters, including Mr. Brown, to have been made, never were
made. •
Tbe documents at this stage consisted of extracts from the
records of two sittings, on April 22nd and July 8th, 1922,
respectively, at which Bernard Lebek (so spelt on April 22nd
and persisted in in spite of questioning), or Lebecq (as spelt
and persisted in on July 8th), communicated, together with
copies of Mr. Brown's letters to Madame Lebecq and to
Monsieur C. and the replies of the latter. Later another
record of communication from Bernard Lebecq, received at a
sitting on July 30th, 1922, and a final letter from Monsieur C.
were added.
The communications at the sittings were disjointed and
confused, as communications through table-tilting are apt to
Oct., 1924 A Fictitious Communicator 309
be—the confusion in the present case being increased through
interruptions by raps (with which Bernard Lebecq disclaimed
any connexion). Moreover, questions and answers had to be
conducted in French as Bernard did not understand English.
Mrs. Brown's knowledge of French was fortunately equal to the
occasion. It will simplify matters, therefore, if we do not
here reproduce the records verbatim, but merely report the
alleged facts communicated.
On April 22nd Bernard gave his Christian name and surname,
stated that he was a soldier killed in the war at a place
which he named, and said that he came from the town of T.
in France. He had apparently nothing he wished to com-
municate. On July 8th in reply to questions he gave his
regiment (the 7th Zouaves), stated that he died on July 3rd,
1916, at the place named before, and was born at T. The
sitters asked if they could do anything to help him, and he
replied, " Dites, s'il vous plait, a ma mere que Jean est
heureux," and added that she lived at T. in a street and at
a number given, that she was a shoemaker and a widow.
Asked whether if the sitters wrote to his mother and told her
they had spoken to him and gave his message she would
believe them, he answered yes. They asked further, " Are
you happy, shall we tell her so ?
" And he said, " Et petit
Jean aussi . . . tous mes reves sont a ma mere." He also
stated in answer to questions that he had been a dealer
(negociant) in wines, and was thirty-five years old when he
died.
After this Mr. Brown undertook to write in French tenta-
tively to Madame Veuve Lebecq asking whether she had a
son named Bernard who was killed in the war and another
son named Jean. If so, and if she would write to him, he
would give her news of them. A copy of this letter, dated
July 10th, 1922, is among the documents.
A reply came dated and postmarked Paris, July 17th, and
signed [Emile C.]. The following is a translation of it :
—
I am in possession of your letter of the 10th instant, which
you addressed to Madame Veuve [Lebecq] at [T.]. Unfortunately
Madame [Lebecq] is blind and has been almost out of her mind
for the last four years. The loss of her two sons during the war
310 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Oct., 1924
was a great grief to her and changed her life completely. You
know that her sons Bernard and Jean fell at , and now there
is no one of her family living. I have been an old friend for
thirty-seven years and I see Madame [Lebecq] from time to time,
but for a few minutes only. I have never heard Madame [Lebecq]
speak of you, Sir. .
>
In reply to this Mr. Brown wrote on July 21st a letter, of
which a copy is with the documents, thanking Monsieur C. for
his letter and regretting the bad news ;
explaining that he
(Mr. Brown) had never known Madame [Lebecq], but that at
a private spiritualistic seance the message from Bernard Lebecq
to Ms mother (as quoted above) had been given. The letter
went on to ask for the following information concerning
Bernard : (1) his birthplace ; (2) his occupation ; (3) the day
of his death and his age at the time ; (4) his regiment. The
writer added that Monsieur C.'s answer would be regarded as
confidential.
"
To this came Monsieur C.'s answer, dated and postmarked
from an important town in Belgium, and purporting to have
been written on July 25th. The street and number were
given. Monsieur C. stated that he had returned home a week
before ; that Mr. Brown's letter to Paris (that is, the one dated
July 21st) had been forwarded ; that he found it of some
interest, but knew nothing of spiritualism ; that Madame
[Lebecq] could not be spoken to on the subject of her sons,
because she only partly understood what was said to her and
was distrustful of everybody. He stated, in reply to the
questions that Mr. Brown had addressed to him, that [Bernard]
was born on March ith, 1881 ; that he fell at on July
3rd, 1916, aged 35 ; that he was a dealer in wines and spirits ;
and during the war was in a Zouave regiment, which was
—
the writer thought—the 7th. These statements confirmed what
Bernard had said through the table. Mr. Brown was enjoined
to treat the letter as confidential.
This letter having been acknowledged by Mr. Brown, the
next event was a further conversation with Bernard through
the table on July 30th. He was asked whether he knew a
friend of his mother's at B. He said yes, and on being
asked for the name of an old friend of his family living at
Oct., 1924 A Fictitimts Communimtor 311
B. replied C Monsieur C . He was then told of his
mother's illness, and appeared much shocked ; he asked if she
suffered much and where she was. The sitters promised to
write again to Monsieur C, and to let Bernard know what
they heard when they could ; there would be no further
sittings for some weeks however. He was asked what was
Monsieur C.'s occupation, and replied that he was a dentist
(dentiste) at B., but denied that he had patients either at T.
or in Paris [the two places besides B. named in Monsieur C.'s
letters]. His address at B. was given, and corresponded—
-
street and number—with that on Monsieur C.'s last letter.
Monsieur C. was informed by Mr. Brown in a letter dated
August 3rd of this communication, and asked whether he could
say whether Madame Lebecq suffered and where she was, as
the sitters wanted to help Bernard as well as they could. In
his reply, again dated from B., on August 8th, he said Madame
[Lebecq] had left T. and was in a hospital {maison de sante)
near Paris, that it was not possible to see her without giving
her annoyance as she was angry with everyone, but that he
did not think she suffered much.
In the meanwhile Mr. Robinson, a friend of Mr. Jones who
had been present at the sitting of July 30th, endeavoured
through a friend living in Belgium to find out something about
Monsieur C. This friend, who wrote on August 6th, ascer-
tained that the house in B. from which Monsieur C.'s letters
were addressed had been destroyed in the war ; that the firm
of C. was and always had been dealers in lace, that their
present address was in the same street but a different number,
and that there appeared to be no dentist of the name of C.
at B., none being mentioned in directories. It seemed a
possibility that there had been confusion in the table-tilting
between dentiste (dentist) and dentelles (lace).
Monsieur C.'s letter of August 8th was acknowledged on the
16th, but a letter from Monsieur C, dated August 17th and
sent from a town in England, reproached Mr. Brown with
breach of confidence, as Monsieur C. had learnt from a friend
that enquiries had been made concerning him. (It was after-
wards ascertained by Mr. Robinson that the enquiries made by
his friend had consisted in looking in directories, so how
312 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Oct., 1924
Monsieur C. could have heard of them is mysterious. Also
that further enquiries, subsequently suggested and thought by
Mr. Brown to have been made, never were made.) Mr.
Brown apparently wrote to smooth matters over (we have no
copy of this letter), and Monsieur C. wrote on August 23rd,
again from a place in England, where he said the letter had
reached him during a brief absence from home, admitting that
Mr. Brown was not to blame about the enquiries, but closing
the correspondence.
There were some odd points about the case at this stage
—
e.g. the curious spelling of the name of the communicator
(which cannot be represented in the name we have substituted
for it), the strangeness of the reply to enquiries addressed to
the French Madame Lebecq coming through a Belgian gentle-
man living at a distance, and Monsieur C.'s letters from B.
being addressed from a house no longer existing. We may
add that a detailed examination of the French of Monsieur C.'s
letters discloses errors so gross as to gravely discredit their
authenticity. Still, up to this point there seemed no reason
to doubt the good faith of all concerned, and it apparently
only remained to discover whether the true information about
Bernard Lebecq's life and death had been published anywhere
—say in a local newspaper at T.—and accidentally fallen under
the eyes of some member of the circle. AVith a view to
ascertaining this, Miss Newton explained what was wanted to
Mr. Brown and Mr. Jones, and obtained their permission to
ask a French member of the Society, who has done work for
us before, and always with care and discretion, to make the
necessary enquiries. He was unfortunately in great family
anxiety and trouble at the time, and this led to considerable
delay. In the spring of 1923, however, he was able to inform
us that enquiries at the war office showed (a) that the regiment
to which [Bernard Lebecq] claimed to have belonged—the 7th
Zouaves—had never existed ; (6) that there was no record of
a soldier named [Bernard Lebek] or [Lebecq] having been
killed. Such a record would certainly have existed, as every
French soldier killed in the war was at once awarded post-
humously the Mihtary Medal and the fact recorded in the
official journal and in the local papers of his region. Thorough
Oct., 1924 A Fictitious Communicator 313
enquiries at T. revealed (c) that there was no such, street there
or in the neighbourhood as that in which Madame [Lebecq]
was said to live ; and (d) that no trace of anyone named
[Lebek] or [Lebecq] having lived at T. could be found, though
search was made through many years. The name [Debecq]
was found, but the person bearing it had not been a dealer
in wines, and had died at Paris during the war as a refugee
—
not as a soldier. The police register at T. for 1914 was
examined and no name of [Lebek] or [Lebecq] found.
These facts were communicated to Mr. Jones by Miss
Newton, and she encouraged him to make enquiries on his
own accoimt, both at T. concerning [Lebecq] and at B. and
elsewhere concerning Monsieur C. What he learnt at T. con-
firmed our French investigator's conclusions. From B. he
learnt that there was no [Emile C] in the firm of [C], though
the late head of the firm, who died before the war, had Emile
as his second Christian name, but was not so called. Also
that no one of the name [Emile C] was known at B. Mr.
Jones further found that nothing was known of anyone of the
name of [C] at the English address given in the letter from
Monsieur C. to Mr. Brown i
of August 17th, 1923.
It was now therefore clear that both the [Lebecqs] and
Monsieur Emile C. were mythical, and that the letters purporting
to come from the latter were forgeries. The statements concern-
ing Bernard Lebecq through the table-tilting were false and
had not really received any confirmation. Evidently a
deliberate hoax had been practised on the circle by someone
who knew what was said by the table-tilting, and was there-
fore able to confirm it in the forged letters. The further
conclusion is almost inevitable that the letters from Monsieur
C had either been written by Mr. Brown or caused to be
written by him, and that he had arranged for their being
posted in difierent towns, presumably in order to give the
impression that Monsieur C. was a person who travelled about
on business. The motive of the hoax is unknown, but it is
possible that in the later stages there may have been in
Mr. Brown's mind a desire to test the Society's credulity.
It should be said that the circle very kindly invited Mr.
^ The other letter posted in England had no full address on it. t
314 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Oct., 1924
Dingwall and Dr. WooUey to attend a sitting in the autumn
of 1922 with a view to seeing the movements of the table, etc.
Only Dr. Woolley was able to take advantage of the invita-
tion, and nothing of importance happened while he was,
present. The phenomena on this occasion consisted only of
the usual movements of the table with contact, due, he con-
cluded, to unconscious movements made by Mr. Brown, and
of raps, the origin of which he was unable to determine.
A SIMPLE TEST FOR THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.i
By Professor Hulsey Cason.
[Editorial Note. We have received from Professor Hulsey Cason,
of Syracuse University, New York, U.S.A., the following report
on some experiments in thought-transference which he has carried
out—with negative results. Professor Cason refers in his con-
cluding paragraph to the " aversion " shown by members of the
various psychical societies "to the scientific method of experi-
ment." In justice to those who have carried out experiments in
thought-transference either in this country or abroad it may be
pointed out that if these persons have not followed the method
advocated by Professor Cason it is not because they are in any way
averse from scientific method, but rather because they are aware
\)t the pecuhar difficulty of applying such a method as Professor
Cason's to experiments of this kind. So far as can be judged by
the circumstances in which thought-transference appears to occur
spontaneously, the state of mind induced by time-experiments
conducted on such rigid lines is not a state of mind conducive
to the reception of telepathic impressions. In investigating any
psychical or psychological phenomena not under our conscious
control it is surely better to proceed by finding out under what
conditions these phenomena seem likely to occur, and then
gradually to modify these conditions to meet scientific require-
ments.
Moreover, Professor Cason does not seem to take into account
the desirabihty of finding suitable subjects for experiment.
Whether one person is better qualified than another to act as
1 For a good introduction into the voluminous literature on this general sub-
ject, see Coover, J. E., Experiments in Psychical Research at Leland Stanford
University, 1917.
Oct., 1924 A Simple Test for Thought-Transference 315
agent may be open to question, but—assuming that such a
phenomenon as thought-transference ever occurs at all—there
seems no doubt that some people are far better qualified than others
to act as percipient, or " re-agent," to use Professor Cason's term.
We can all, however, agree as to the desirability of carrying out
further experiments along all possible lines, and we therefore
welcome this evidence of Professor Cason's interest in the subject,,
and hope that he will pursue his enquiries.]
The material used in our experiment was a pack of 40'
cards, on each of which was drawn a square, circle, triangle,,
or rectangle. These figures had an approximate area of 2 sq.
cm. There were 10 of each in the pack of 40 cards, and
anyone could guess the figure on a given card 1 time in 4 on.
the average, or by chance. This pack of cards was used to
determine the order of the series of figures at the experi-
menter's or " sender's " end. The re-agent or " receiver " had
4 cards before him on which were drawn the same figures,
a square, circle, triangle and rectangle, and in the centre of
these figures was placed an S, C, T, and R, respectively. The
writer attempted to function as the experimenter or " sender
"
in all trials. I would take off a card from the shuffled pack,,
and think about it for several seconds. The re-agent under-
stood that one figure would be used as often as any other in
each series of 40 trials, and that the figures would occur in a
chance order. He made a record of the particular figure
which he believed was being thought of at the moment,
recording S, C, T, or R.
Two types of procedure were used. In the first the subject
and I were in different rooms separated by two walls. In the
second procedure we were in the same room, and about 3 yards
from each other. We may now describe the first kind of
procedure more specifically.
The second hands of two well-regulated watches were set
together ; and at certain times previously agreed upon I would
think of the figures on the consecutive cards of the pack, and
the subject who had the other watch before him attempted to
guess the figure. Starting on a certain minute previously
agreed upon, I would think of a figure and the re- agent would
" search " for it when the second hands of the two watches
316 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Oct., 1924
were between 60 sec. and 5 sec, 15 sec. and 20 sec, 30 sec.
and 35 sec, and 45 sec and 50 sec. At the end of each of
"these periods of impression, or when the second hands reached
the 5-, 20-, 35-, and 50-sec mark, the re-agent wrote down S,
C, T, or R. Thus 4 trials were made per minute. In the other
room I was thinking about the consecutive figures suggested
by the pack of cards during these same periods of impression
and also for some 2 sec. both before and after each period.
I made a record of the card thought of just before the next
period of impression, thus making my record after the re- agent
made his. At the end of a series of 40 trials, i.e. at the end
of a 10-min. period, I went into the subject's room to be sure
that the watches were exactly together and that everything
was all right, but nothing was said about the order of the
figures. The subject rearranged the 4 cards before him as he
wished from time to time, in order to equalise any advantage
due to position. Before beginning each series of 20 trials, the
le-agent put any records just made out of sight. After agree-
ing upon another starting-point, I returned to the other room,
and after the pack of cards had been shuffled several times,
another series of 40 trials was begun.
The 11 subjects who took part in this experiment generally
completed three series of 40 trials each per day. They were
kept in total ignorance of the outcome of the experiment, and
I was also careful not to look over the record sheets myself
until a large enough number of trials had been made to
furnish reliable results. All of the re-agents made an honest
efiort to guess the figure being thought of, and the records
showed that no subject consistently preferred any particular
figure. In fact, more changes from figure to figure were
found in the subject's records than would be found ordinarily
in a chance arrangement with a shuffled pack of cards. With
the procedure outlined above, it seemed that the conditions
were satisfactorily controlled, and the results bear out this
assumption only too well.
No extra-chance influence was observed in 3040 trials made
in this way. The theoretical probability is 25 right out of
100, and the group of 11 subjects made an average score of
25-36. This minute difference of 0-36 in 100 or about 1 in
Oct., 1924. A Sim-pie Test for Thoug?d-Transference 317
300 has no reliability whatever. We conclude, therefore, that
mental telepathy does not materialise under these conditions.
The same pack of 40 cards was used in the other type of
procedure. Now, however, I sat facing the subject, in the
same room, and at a distance of about 3 yards. The re-agent
could see the upper portion of my body, but the view of the
cards was shut ofE from his position by a screen. 2400 trials
were made with 10 subjects. After tapping on the table as
a signal for the subject to look up, I would turn over the first
card of the pack, think about the figure and look at it for
some 7 sec. This time-interval was kept as nearly constant
as possible. At the end of each period of impression the card
was laid aside in a new pile turned face down. When the
subject saw this movement of the arm made in laying the
card aside he recorded either S, C, T, or R. Between three
and four trials were made per min. All subjects were in-
structed to make whatever use they could of corneal reflection,
"muscle reading," "intuition," changes in expression, move-
ments of the head, changes in position, sounds originating from
the physical process of thinking, etc. I made a record of the
order of the figures after each series of 40 trials had been
completed, and both subjects and experimenter again remained
in complete ignorance of the outcome until after the experiment
had been finished.
The results from this procedure were a little surprising
because of various claims which had been made for " muscle
reading," " intuition," and the like. In 2400 trials the 10
subjects made an average score of 25-25 right out of 100,
where the theoretical probability is 25-00. This microscopic
difference of 1 in 400 has no reliability whatever. Shght
movements of the body apparently do not serve as an adequate
basis for judgment imder these conditions. Whatever stimuli
the subjects may have received did not seem to possess any
meaning as far as the four geometrical figures were concerned.
Bringing the re-agent into the same room and placing him at
a distance of only 3 yards also did not enable him to make a
higher score than chance would allow. During the experiment
several of the subjects paid particular attention to eye move-
ments, changes in expression, and movements of the head, but
318 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Oct., 1924
apparently to no avail. In this latter procedure the subjects
were asked to underline the letters, S, C, T, or R, in their
records, when they felt particularly certain that they were
correct. 57 letters were underlined in this way, but only 14
of these were correct,—thus affording a further illustration of
the law of chance. Various factors of suggestion, etc., seem to
influence the subject under these conditions. Introspective
testimony is of very questionable value.
Seven men and four women, all juniors or seniors in college,
took part in the two types of experiment, and no subject
showed any particular superiority over any other in his ability
to guess the figure being thought of. During the first type
of procedure over half of the subjects believed in mental
telepathy in one form or another, and all of them were
interested in making the trials. Practically all of the subjects
believed that some result beyond chance would be obtained in
the second type of procedure, and the failure to obtain such
a result was apparently not due to any lack of serious effort
or willingness on their part.
A good opportunity was afforded for " mental telepathy " to
manifest itself in both of the procedures described above.
Throughout the experiment the records were conveniently kept
in groups of 20 trials each, and the following table shows the
frequency with which the different numbers of correct guesses
in 20 trials were made :
No. correct guesaes
in 20 trials. Frequency.
0
1
2
3
4
5
0
m
40
50
SO'
48-'
•
6
'7'
8
9'
10
11
12 0
•
Oct., 1924 A Simple Test for ThongM-Transference 319
The average score of these 272 groups of 20 trials each is
5-06, as against a theoretical probability of 5-00. There was
no case of none correct out of 20, and no case with more than
11 correct. The distribution is seen to be skewed slightly
towards the larger numbers of correct guesses out of 20 trials,
but this distribution coincides almost exactly with the curve
of chance for this material. In 5440 trials, therefore, the
n subjects scored on the average 1-0125 correct out of 4-0000,
as against a theoretical probability of 1-0000. The probable
error of this difference of 0-0125 in 4-0000, or 1 in 320, is
many times larger than the difierence itself.
The result of this brief venture into the thaumaturge's field
of the occult affords nothing new to those who work with
psychical research, but the type of procedure illustrates a
useful method of detecting or failing to detect the presence of
mental telepathy, however weak or frail its manifestations may
be. The members of the various psychical research societies
show a peculiar aversion to the scientific method of experi-
ment, but if their claims are ever to be substantiated this is
the method which will have to be employed.
Syracuse University.
CASE.
L. 1258. A Telepathic Dream.
The follo^ving case of a dream apparently of telepathic origin
was received through one of our Members, Mrs. Ernest Hock-
liffe, who is personally acquainted with the dreamer, JMrs.
Griffith. The first report of the dream was contained in a
letter from Mrs. Griffith to Mrs. Hockliffe, thus :—
Friar's School, Bangor,
March 24, 1924.
. . . The incident you referred to was merely that I had a
very vivid dream about people whom I have not met, and as I
do not dream often and it was particularly vivid, I mentioned to
my husband that Sir R. J. Thomas and family were in great
trouble and I was very concerned about them in some way. He
is Member for Anglesey, and I had heard that one boy was at
320 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Oct., 1924
Uppingham 1 and that is all I knew of them. Anyway, after break-
fast we heard of the fire that had taken place in their house
near Holyhead the previous night and that there was a valuable
picture burnt D. Qt. b. Griffith.
In a subsequent letter to Mrs. HocklifEe, dated March 29,
1924, Mrs. Griffith writes:—
The date of the fire could be found out because it was in all
the local papers and happened soon after the Prince's visit here,
on which occasion I saw Sir R. J. Thomas for the first and only
time. As to the time of night, I never wake up until the
morning bell goes, so I am quite ignorant. . . .
D. St. B. Griffith.
Later, in reply to a letter from the Secretary, Miss Newton,
a confirmatory statement was received from Mrs. Griffith's
husband, thus:— i; ,
,
:.,
., May 25, 1924.
When my wife woke up one morning she said, " I have had a
vivid dream and it was that the Sir R. J. Thomas' were in great
trouble, fuss and disturbance." That day we heard that there
had been a fire during the previous night and that a valuable
picture (supposed to be a Raphael) had been burnt.
W. J. BoDFAN Griffith.
According to the report published in the Holyhead Chronicle
on Friday, November 23, 192.3, the fire at Sir R. J. Thomas'
house at Holyhead broke out on Sunday evening, November
18th, just as " the family were about to sit down to supper,"
and was got under control about 5 o'clock on the Monday
morning, by which time a large part of the house had been
destroyed. Since Bangor, where Mrs. Griffith lives, is only
about 23 miles from Holyhead, Miss Newton enquired into the
question of whether (a) the fire could have been seen at
Bangor, and (6) whether any news of it reached Bangor on
the Sunday evening. Information on these points was obtained
through a Member of the Society living in Bangor, to the
following effect:— ,, .
The news came to Bangor same evening per train (it was
known at Bangor Station). Mail train leaves Holyhead every
1 Where Mrs. Griffith had lived for some j'ears.
Oct., 1924. Case : A Telepathic Dream 321
evening, 7.30—due Bangor, 8.25. Bangor Fire Brigade was not
called out.
Some students that I questioned, who live in upper Bangor,
quite scouted the idea that the glare from an ordinary fire at
Holyhead could be detected in upper Bangor. Apart from the
fact that there is a distance of over twenty miles, there is a high
ridge in the way. . . .
•.i!!'^'- '
-
Having ascertained that the news about the fire reached
Bangor on Sunday evening, Miss Newton then enquired of
Mrs. Griffith as to the possibility of any member of her house-
hold having heard the news that night, i.e. before she had her
dream. To this enquiry Mrs. Griffith replied as follows :
—
Ju7ie 26, 1924.
As far as I know no one in the house knew of the fire at Sir
R. J. Thomas' until I read it in the paper. It is, however,
difficult to guarantee anything because there are over seventy
people in the house, but none of the boys were out as late as
when the mail train came in. .
D. St. B. Griffith.
In these circumstances, it appears improbable that Mrs.
Griffith can have had any normal knowledge concerning the
fire on the night of Sunday, November 18, 1923, though the
possibility of her having unconsciously overheard some remark
dropped by a person who knew of the fire cannot be absolutely
disproved.
CONCERNING A RECENT CASE : A CORRECTION.
In the Journal for May of this year (Vol. XXL, p. 269) we
printed a report of a book test sent to us by Mr. J. F. C.
Kimber, who was himself the percipient. We have since
received a letter from one of our Members j)ointing out what
he thinks must be "a slight error, on the supposition that the
copy of Tennyson's Demeter is in the original edition of 1889.
The words '
at this glad ceremonial ' are on the fourth line
of page 9, not page 8. The third and fourth lines on p. 8
run :
— , ^ ,
,
Hail the fair Ceremonial
Of this year of her Jubilee."
322 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1924
In consequence of this letter Mrs. Sidgwick wrote to Mr.
Kimber, asking if he could throw any light on the point at
issue, Mr. Kimber replied as follows :
—
Aug. 5, 1924.
... I have looked up tlie quotation and must own the fault
is mine. In writing to you giving you the case, I wrote from
memory instead of, as I should certainly have done, referring to
the book again.
I am so very sorry, as I hate carelessness in these matters.
Mrs. Kimber will tell you that it was p. 9, not p. 8, I asked
her to look up for me. . . .
J. F. C. Kimber.
With the above letter was enclosed a letter from Mrs.
Kimber, as follows :
—
August 5th.
Just a line to say that the mistake about page 8 in the book
Demeter is owing to my husband having written it down from
memory. When he called me into the room, he told me to look
at page " 9, line 4," and read it out. I then read " at this glad
ceremonial," put a mark at the page, and a little mark at the
line which lies before me in the book now. Another time we
will see that the details of a test arc written down at once, then
there will be no mistake. . . .
Gertrude L. Kimber.
CORRESPONDENCE.
The Half-Belief in Immortality.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—In reviewing my Problems of Belief for the last Pro-
ceedings, Mr. G. L. Dickinson mentions, quite rightly, that I have
quoted in it a number of typical answers to the Questionnaire of
the American Branch of the S.P.R. which Richard Hodgson
circulated nearly twenty-five years ago. He does not, however,
explain why I did this, and the reason bears so directly on the
.attitude and policy of the Society that attention must once more
be drawn to the point which these answers seem to have proved.
I used them to illustrate the nature of what I call a " half-
belief," and to explain why under normal comlitions belief in
immortality remains a half-belief, and I defy an unbiassed mind
Oct., 1924 Correspondence 323
to read these documents without accepting my interpretation of
them. Mr. Dickinson should, I think, have pointed all this out,
as also that this was the first occasion on which these answers
have been published in extenso, thus completing the discussion
begun in Proceedings, Part 49.
But what is more unfortunate is that he should have seriously
mistaken the original aim of our inquiry. He represents it as
having been an inquiry into " What the recipients believed,
hoped, feared and so on about the question of survival after death.
The raphes showed great diversity of opinion and much reluctance
to attempt to pursue the question in a scientific way."
Now this is just not the point Hodgson, .James, and myself
tried to elucidate. We did not ask people to tell us about their
beliefs and opinions. We realised how easily beliefs arej professed
and how lightly opinions " are given, and knew that, whether
we asked for them or not. we should get more of them than we
wanted. What we asked for was the human sentiment, i.e. the
way people felt about the prospect of survival, and the sort of
future life that would be acceptable. We thereby assumed that
there was something deeper and more significant than " opinions
"
and '''
beliefs," viz. the feelings, desires, cravings, instincts, which
find expression, or rather take cover, in the opinions professed ;
and our questions were designed as inducements to analyse them
out.
Thus, if our assumption was justified, as I hold the answers
proved, it would evidently be an enormous mistake to treat the
" beliefs " held as merely intellectual products, capable of being
dealt with by argument. They are largely what it is the fashion
now to call ••
complexes." To affect them the methods of Psy-
chical Research would have to address themselves to their real
nature, and to be modified accordingly. Nay, in any scientific
inquiry it would be necessary to distinguish, as intellectualist
theory had not done, between ordinary opinions, which are super-
ficial and volatile because no one cares enough about them to be
obstinate, and those which are camouflage for deep-seated cravings
and prejudices and, when assailed by reasons, change their form
but not their ground. Mr. Dickinson, I am afraid, has either
failed to follow this argument, or dishkes it so much himself that
he has slurred it over. But in the latter case will he not have
provided one more illustration of its truth \ F. C. S. Schiller.
324 Review Oct., 1924
NoTJO BY Mr. G. Lowes Dickinson.
I regret if I failed to follow Mr. Schiller's argument. I am not
aware of " disliking " it, and I suppose myself to be very much
aware of its general truth. Whether I am also an " illustration of
its truth " I dare not affirm or deny. For if I were, of course I
should not know it. The same applies to Mr. Schiller.
G. Lowes Dickinson.
REVIEW.
Alls clem Reiche des Hellsehwunders, neue retroslvOpiscJie Versuche.
By Ubald Tartaruga. J. Baum, Pfullingen. Pp. 55.
Dr. Tartaruga, whose accoimt of the clairvoyant '
Megalis ' I
reviewed in the Journal for March 1923, has now become the
Director of a Parapsychical Institute which has been started in
Vienna and the Editor of its Library, of which this work is the
first publication. It reports new experiments with '
Megalis,'
and also with a young Viennese business man, '
Ernest L.,' who
goes into trance voluntarily, and then becomes a child-like person-
ality, '
Ero,' and it has an important bearing on the theory of
'
clairvoyance.' For Dr. Tartaruga makes a determined attempt
to test (1) the validity of explaining such performances by tele-
pathy, and (2) the actual way in which clairvoyants '
see '
the
scenes they describe. His suggestion for testing the first point is
that there should be four series of experiments with every medium
:
(a) one in which all those present are aware of the object of the
experiment ; (6) one in which all but the experimenter know this ;
(c) one in which few, one or none know ; and finally (d) one in
which the only one who knows is absent, and does not know
either when or where the experiment is to take place, and so
that he cannot be supposed to be actively transmitting his
thought. It is evident that such experiments might yield results
which would render the telepathic explanation extremely im-
probable.
For the purpose of elucidating the second point, Dr. Tartaruga
very rightly thinks that the actual proceedings at a sitting, as
taken down stenographically, must be stated and annotated, in
order that their significance may be grasped. The conclusions he
draws from his own experiments are that there really is such a
thing as clairvoyance independent of telepathy (in any ordinary
sense), and that in estimating the results it is essential to make
am])le allowance for the fact that what the medium sees he may
be quite unable to interpret, because his trance-intelligence is
quite insufficient to understand it. There appears to be no
doubt that Dr. Tartaruga's experiments are conducted on the
right lines, if scientific progress is to be made ;
and, altogether,
he is to be congratulated on producing a substantial and valuable
contribution to psychical research. F. C. S. Schiller.
No. CCCCIX.—Vol. XXI. November, 1924
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A
GENERAL MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
WILL BE HELD IN
THE STEINWAY HALL,
WIGMORE STREET, LONDON, W.,
On FRIDAY, DECUMBER \2th, 1924, at 5.15
; WHEN .\ PAPER ENTITLED
" Further Experiments in Thought-Transference carried out
by Professor Gilbert Murray
"
By Mrs. HENRY SIDGWICK,
will be read by
AIrs. W. H. Salter.
N.B.— Visitors will be admitted on production of an i?ivitation card signed
by a Member or Associate. Each Member or Associate is allowed
to invite o?ie friend. Me?nbers and Associates will be admitted on
signing their names at the door.
326 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov., 1924
NEW MEMBERS.
Ainsworth, A. S., Thomson Falls, Montana, U.S.A.
Allison, Mrs. E. W., Hotel Warrington, 161 Madison Avenue, New"
York City, U.S.A.
Batten, Mrs. Mount, Mornington Lodge, West Kensington, London,
W. 14.
Blatchford, Robert, The Firs, Horsham, Sussex.
Childs, Mrs., 13 Croftdown Road, London, N.W. 5.
Coplestone-Boughey, Mrs., Kichmond Hill, Chester.
Fermor-Hesketh, Sir Thomas, Bart., Easton Nestor, Towcester,^
Northamptonshire.
Granger, E. P., Kenora, Ontario, Canada.
Griffith, Mrs., 19 Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Lambert, Rudolf, Werastrasse 2, Degerloch bei Stuttgart.
Lang, Mrs. J. D., Quest, Salcombe Regis, Nr. Sidmouth, Devon.
Librarian, James Jerome Hill Reference Library, St. Paul, Minne-
sota, U.S.A.
Librarian, The University Library, Bristol.
Martin, Charles E., 22 Preston Street, Brighton.
Mor-ris, Mrs., 13 Croftdown Road, London, N.AV. 5.
Taylor, George A., 20 Loftus Street, Sydney, Australia.
Vinen, Northcote H., 8 Park Mansions, Sydenham, London, S.E. 26,
Wilcox, Mrs., 23 Ridgway Place, Wimbledon, London, S.W. 19.
Woolley, Mrs. Cornell, 9-50 Park Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
Zeller, Dr. Gustave, Lutherstr. 29, Harburg near Hamburg.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 213tli Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, W.C., on Friday, October 31st, 1924, at 3 p.m. ;:
Sir Oliver Lodge, and afterwards the President, in the-
chair. There were also present : The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour,
Sir William Barrett, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Sir Ohver
Lodge, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J.
Woolley ; also Mr. E. J. Dingwall, Research Officer, and Miss
I. Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as
correct.
Nov., 1924 Meeting of the Council 327
Twenty new Members were elected. Their names and
addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for June, July, August and September,
1924, were presented and taken as read.
On Sir William Barrett's proposal, the Council agreed under
certain conditions to place the Library at the disposal of groups
of Members desiring to meet and discuss various aspects of
psychical research.
The Council expressed their grateful thanks for the recent
gifts of £200 and £110 received from a Member who wishes
to be anonymous, and to Mr. H. F. Saltmarsh for the valuable
help he has given in making and presenting to the Society
special apparatus for the seance room.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 167th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Robert Barnes Hall of the Royal Society of Medicine, 1 Wim-
pole Street, London, W., on Friday, October 31st, 1924, at
5.30 p.m. ; The President in the chair.
Professor Charles Richet read a paper entitled " Des
Conditions de la Certitude dans les Sciences Metapsychiques,"
which will be, it is hoped, published later in the Proceedings.
THE FORMATION OF GROUPS FOR DISCUSSION.
With a view to stimulating the interest of Members and
Associates in the Society's work, the Council are willing to
place the Library at the disposal of groups desiring to discuss
various aspects of psychical research, on the following con-
ditions :
1. The library cannot be reserved for group meetings more
than twice a month, and a clear week's notice must
be given to the Secretary. Group meetings can only
be held during the afternoon, between 3 and 6 p.m.,
on week-days, excepting Saturday.
2. Groups must consist exclusively of Members and Asso-
ciates. Each group should appoint a Secretary who will
328 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov., 1924
make any necessary arrangements with the Secretary of
the S.P.K.
3. The choice of subject, method of discussion and member-
ship of each group will be left to the group : it will
probably be desirable to limit each group to a maximum
of 15 Members.
4. Group Meetings must not be advertised, nor must any
report of any discussion or other proceedings at any
group be made to any periodical, whether pubhshed or
privately printed, mthout the Council's consent.
These arrangements are provisional and may be modified
as the result of experience. The Council hope that they will
help Members to keep in touch with each other, and believe
that informal discussions by groups might serve a useful
purpose in supplementing the ordinary Meetings of the Society.
CASE.
L. 1259. A Telepathic Dream.
The following case of a dream which appears to have been of
telepathic origin has been sent to us by Lady Grey of Fallodon,
who is a Member of the Society.
The first report of the case was received in a letter from
Lady Grey addressed to the Editor, Mrs. Salter, as follows :
WiLSFORD Manor, Salisbury,
June Uth, 1924.
I do not know if the following case of thought-transference would
interest the S.P.R. that occurred between myself and a friend
lately. Miss MacRae (the friend of whom I write) is often the
recipient of impressions and dreams, and has intimations of what
her friends are doing at a distance which are arrived at not
through the ordinary channels of sense.
I was walking with my son on Sunday the 8th [June, 1924]
and I said to him :
" For the last week I have had a return of
that neuralgic pain in my neck that I had three years ago ; I
wish I knew if it comes from a tooth and if I ought to have
the tooth out or not." ..,
On the 10th Miss MacRae wrote me the letter which I enclose
Nov., 1924 Case : A Telepathic Dream 329
My son Stephen endorses below the fact that I spoke to him
of this neuralgic pain before T\e received the letter.
Pamela Grey of Fallodox.
Corroborative Statement by Lady Grey's Son.
I remember the conversation with my mother to have been
exactly as she states above, and her reading the letter aloud to
me subsequently. Stephex Texxaxt.
With, the above letter from Lady Grey was enclosed the
following letter from jVIiss MacRae :
June 10 [1924].
Dear Lady Grey,
I have been told you had 'liu, but I hope it is gone now and
that you are quite well again. You looked so well when I saw
you I thought you were safe for the rest of the year and nothing
evil would assail you. I dreamed one night that you told me
you had an old pain coming back down the side of your neck
and that it was caused by a tooth. I hope it wasn't a true
dream; perhaps it was because I was thinking of you before going
to sleep. . . . WiLLEAMEXA.
Subsequently Mrs. Salter wrote to inquire whether ]\Iiss
MacRae could remember how long an interval had elapsed
between her dream and her ^^Titing to Lady G-rey. Miss
MacRae replied to Mrs. Salter as follows :
June 26 [1924].
Lady - Grey has forwarded me your letter, and, in reference to
the date of my dreaming, I did not make a note of it, but I
remember I was two or three days without writing after I had
dreamt. ... Willeamexa jMacRae.
]\Iiss MacRae wrote to Lady Grey on June 10, 1924 ; it
would therefore appear that her dream occurred about June
7th or 8th. Lady Grey's conversation with ^h. Stephen
Tennant was on June 8th. Miss MacRae mentions in her letter
to Lady Grey that she had been thinking about her on the
night of her dream. This fact, coupled with her having lately
heard that Lady Grey had had influenza, may have made her
mind receptive to impressions about Lady Grey's health, but
it could hardly account for the very close similarity between
the dream-impression and the actual occurrence.
330 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov., 1924
FOR AND AGAINST SURVIVAL.
By C. G. Palmer.
The great interest aroused by the two papers by Sir Oliver Lodge
and Professor Charles Richet (Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXXIV., pp.
107 ff.) may perhaps be admitted as a sufficient excuse for my
venturing to offer some remarks on the subjects they treat of.
In presenting the difficulty of survival from the scientific point
of view, Professor Richet lays stress on two main difficulties.
The first is the " rigorous parallelism between intellectual func-
tions—otherwise called memory—and the brain," so that it is
difficult to believe memory can exist without the anatomical and
physiological integrity of the brain. The second is the unbroken
chain of analogous memories throughout the immense animal
kingdom. There is no gap or hiatus in the memories from man
" down to the worms," so that if one set of memories survive the
others must also survive. In reference to this passage I submit
that as a worm has no brain, it—the intelligence within it—must
manifestly depend on something which is not brain for the com-
paratively simple intellectual activities of the worm.
A fertile egg of the common hen may be placed in an incubator
completely isolated from direct control by any brain. It contains
nothing resembling a brain. Yet when given suitable warmth the
yolk of it will develop special cells, it will commence to build up
a most complex body, and presently it will fabricate a brain suited
to the future requirements of the chicken after it leaves the shell.
The work thus done by the yolk has involved intellectual
functions of a super-human quality ; it has demanded profound
knowledge and unerring memory to a degree that incomparably
surpasses the intellectual requirements of any work yet done by
man with the instrumentality of his conscious brain. The work
has been done by—or must we not say through the instrumentality
of—-organic substance which had no brain until it made one for
its own purposes. The work has not been done under the control
of a self-conscious mind, but it has necessitated the employment
of intellectual functions. A similar argument develops itself in
reviewing the activities of the vegetable kingdom. Memory is
innate in the organic cell.
Taking this view of the facts, it seems difficult to hold that
intellectual functions cannot persist without a material brain. It
Nov., 1924 For and Against Survival 331
seems more reasonable to use the working hypothesis promulgated
by Sir Oliver Lodge and regard the brain as an apparatus
developed by the formative impulse pari passu with the increasing
needs of more complex organisms by controlling and suitably
directing the motor force—whatever it may be—in somewhat the
same manner as a telephone operator's switchboard increases in
complexity as additional users need separate services.
The second difficulty—the unbroken chain of analogous memories
'
—seems to me logically unanswerable at the present stage, but
yet overborne by the strength of a persistent inner urge. Those
who believe that urge arises from the deeps of the subconscious
mentality cannot lightly disregard it, but will mostly be content
to await the coming of more light to the conscious mind.
The working hypothesis of Sir Oliver Lodge entices me to
describe very diffidently an imagining of my own—a mere scaffold-
ing for thoughts—which has seemed helpful in picturing thoughts
on the genesis of matter and its subsequent behaviour. In
the first place it has seemed to me that persistent action of
any kind is a manifestation of memory. Imagine two unequal
forces that fluctuate rhythmically being liberated in vacuo ; the
two mutually attractive and mutually impenetrable ; both en-
dowed with the persistence which is Memory, and the dominant
force informed with an impulse toward a Purpose unknown, but
of which we now see some of the introductory stages. It seems
to help my thought, but may be sheer nonsense to others.
June 27, 1924.
NOTES ON PEEIODICALS.
The June issue of the Journal of the American S.P.R. has two
articles by Dr. Walter Prince, one of which gives an account of
the experiments with the Scientific American. He describes the
methods adopted and gives some details as to the persons con-
cerned in the inquiry. Drawing a sharp distinction between the
staff making the actual arrangements and the judges, he shows
"that many of the attacks made upon the judges were misplaced and
indicated a misunderstanding of the position. Proceeding, Dr.
Prince discusses the various test sittings held, which usually ended
in the judges deciding that no satisfactory evidence had been
offered to support the medium's claims. In one case, that of the
JRev. Josie Stewart, he deals rather fully with the defence of this
332 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov., 1924^
medium which was led in this country by Sir A. C. Doyle. Mrs.
Stewart claimed to produce " direct writing " upon cards supplied
by the investigators, but the Committee easily discovered that the
cards were substituted and published their conclusions. The case was
a palpable instance of fraud and the judges had no hesitation in deciding
against the medium. Sir Arthur, however, relying upon methods
of propaganda now familiar enough, defended the medium vigor-
ously in a letter reprinted in part by Dr. Prince. Taking a
dozen examples or more, Dr. Prince shows that Sir Arthur s
objections and defence are based upon a number of misstatements
emphasised in order to discredit the judges. Thus he declares
that the judges will ^aj the prize, whereas they will not pay a
penny towards it ; that the medium had a dozen people around
her at one sitting, whereas the printed diagram shows that such
was not the case ; that there was a " minute difference " in the
cards whereas they were in reality longer, thinner, and of a different
weight, texture and colour. Finally, in order to account for the
five missing cards. Sir Arthur suggests that the investigators failed
to count them correctly in the first place ! Dr. Prince concludes
his caustic survey by printing another letter from Sir Arthur in
which the latter suddenly discovers that the attitude of the
Scientific American was entirely justified. This amazing volte-face
was due to the belated discovery that some eighteen years ago
a spirituaMstic Committee had also decided against the authenticity
of the medium's phenomena, and this conclusion disposes, according
to Sir Arthur, of all his objections to the later inquiry.
The issue of the same Journal for August has a translation
of Dr. William Mackenzie's pajjer at the Congress in Warsaw, and
a review of his recent book by Bozzano. Dr. Mackenzie, in a
brochure which has been widely distributed, annoimces his in-
tention of giving up his studies in psychical research, being dis-
couraged by the series of exposures and by the extreme difficulty
of distinguishing the genuine from the simulated, which he thinks
almost insurmountable. The September number has an excellent
review of the work of Rafael Schermann by Dr. Prince, and in
the prefatory note the author hopes that the paper may be of
service to those who wish to learn something of methods and
critical discrimination as practised in psychical research. The article
is an admirable exposition of the principles to be adopted in an.
examination of the claims of a so-called " psycho-graphologist."
Nov., 1924 Notes on Periodicals 333
The Scientific American for July has a further instahiient of
Mr. Bird's account of the work of the Commission. It consists
of a glowing narrative of the phenomena said to occur in the
presence of a Boston lady who is known under the pseudonym of
' Margery." There are several records of actual sittings, but
these are worthless from the scientific point of view and the
medium's work is apparently treated as an exhibition since Mr.
Bird describes it as " the big show." The story is continued in
the August issue. It is written in the same style as the previous
account, and it is a pity that the Committee could not obtain a
secretary who was not so obviously excited, emotional and oblivious
of what facts are important and what are not. But the general
tenor of the account leads one to suppose that the Committee is
more or less satisfied as to the genuine character of some, at
least, of the phenomena which include the independent voice
materializations, lights, telekinesis, etc. Dr. William M'Dougall and
Dr. Prince v.'ere present at some of the sittings and presumably
passed the report before publication. The final verdict has yet
to be pronounced, the Committee having had 31 sittings when
the August issue of the Scientific American was published.
The AugTist issue of Psychische Stvdien has an account of the
experiment with Ossowiecki recently printed in the Journal. Mr.
Grunewald contributes a translation of the report upon Nielsen
recently published by some Icelandic investigators in which the
genuine character of Nielsen's phenomena are strongly afiirmed.
Dr. Schroder has an attack upon the methods and conclusions
of Moll and his school as expressed in the latter's work Der
S]nritismus (Stuttgart, 1924).
The September issue of the same periodical continues Dr.
Schroder's paper and has also a note upon Dr. Murphy's tele-
jDathic experiments by Dr. Bruch of Berlin.
The issue for May and June of the Revue Metapsychique has
the first part of Dr. Geley's report upon the medium Erto,
the tenor of which is already familiar to readers of the Journal.
M. Sudre has a paper upon reincarnation and M. Forthuny continues
his Chronique Stranger, the contents of which should be read with,
caution. -
E. J. D.
334 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov., 1924
CORKESPONDENCE.
"
I. The Apparition of Booty on Stromboli.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—This story has been repeatedly told and always in the
same form, beginning with quotations from Mr. Spinks' log of the
meeting with the Captains Barnaby, Bristowe, and Brewer (or
Brown), and the vision to them and their assembled crews of two
figures in flight up the side of Stromboli. The foremost was
recognised by Barnaby as his neighbour at home, Mr. Booty ;
and for saying that they saw him " run into hell," on their
return to England, action was brought by the widow, but the
case was lost. The date is given as 1687 ; the trial took place
in the Court of King's Bench, and the judge is almost always
reported as having said that " two or three may be mistaken, but
we cannot suppose above thirty were."
The earliest account I have been able to find of this incident
is in Wesley's Arminian Magazine, Vol. VL, p. 43, in 1783, where
no date or names of any judges are given. But all the succeeding
authors (Kirby, 1804; Tregortha, 1808; Cockburn, 1815; Welby
(i.e. John Timbs). 1825 ;
Charley, 1836 ;
Moncriefi, 1830 ;
Ottway,
1846 ;
Mary Howitt (in the Supplement to Ennemoser), 1854
;
Shorter {Spiritual Magazine), 1860 ; W. H. Harrison, 1879 ; Thisel-
ton Dyer, 1893 ; Andrew Lang, 1896) quote the story as genuine.
Timbs adds :
" N.B. —It is now in the records at Westminster,"
and appends a list of four Judges' names headed by " James
the Second 1687," but he may have used some older tradition
;
the roughness of the phrasing in some versions indicates that
there was such. Two contributors to Notes and Queries in 1851
pointed out that the law of the case was impossible at the
date assigned, and that if Booty's death in England occurred,
as was sworn to, at the same time, all but two minutes, as
the time of the apparition, he must have " run to hell " an hour
before he died, owing to the difference of longitude. In 1912
Mr. H. G. Archer {Chambers's Journal, p. 607) said that the case
was not in the London Gazette or the Records of Westminster for
1687 or 1688, but that the story was current all through the
eighteenth century. It is not, however, in Aubrey's Miscellanies
(1696) or in Defoe's View of the Invisible World, or his History of
the Devil (1727).
Nov., 192-1 Correspondence 335
If anyone can inform me of the earliest appearance of the
story in print in the eighteenth century, or references to it,
I should be grateful.
Finally, and this is the object of my note, I think it is esta-
blished that it is literature and not fact, for I have examined
every case in the Court of King's Bench (in Leach's Modern
Reforts, 12 vols., 1793) from the Restoration to the beginning of
Anne's reign, and there is none of this name or bearing the
remotest resemblance to it in circumstance.
Elmstead, Epsom Lane, F. E. Leaning.
Tadworth, Surrey. - .
II. " The Ear of Dionysius."
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—In the " Ear of Dionysius " (Vol. XXIX. of Pro-
ceedings, pp. 201-2), the author is commenting on the strangely
far-fetched association dragged in by the line,
''
An early pipe
could be heard," and goes on to lament the " abominable pun
"
which he says is not characteristic of the automatist. He goes
on to argue, however, that there might be even an evidential
point about the jest as the supposed comnrunicator, A. W. V.,
always considered the sentiment of the poem—" Tears, idle tears
"
to which, apparently, is the allusion—overstrained.
On re-reading this portion of the argument I am inclined to
think the commentator has perhaps missed the real force of the
allusion. Assuming that the allusion is to the quoted lines :
" The earliest pipe of half-awakened birds
To dying ears."
I think it is very significant that the poem brings in the " ear
"
motive in two places. First as emphasised by the pun (" ear
liest pipe ") and next in the phrase " dying ears." It is true
that the plural form is here and the singular has just been
insisted upon very persistently in the script. But what about
the accompanying adjective " dying " ? In view of the " Dy
Dy " of the script four sentences further down, it seems to me
that the association " dy ing ears " is very remarkable. Would
it be far-fetched to suggest that the hiatus in the script word
" ear ly " is a hint to look for a similar hiatus in an associated
word " dy ing " ?
^ ^_
336 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov., 1924
EEVIEWS.
I. Geschichte der oJchuUischen {metapsychischen) ForscJiung von der
Antike bis zur GegenwarL II. Teii. Von der Mitle des 19.
Jahrhiinderts bis zur Gegenvjart. By Rudolf Tischner.
(Pfullingen in Wurtfcenberg. 1921). Pp. 371.
The historian of occultism invariably finds his task harder than would
appear at first sight. The limits of his field are so vague and
shadowy that he knows not what to include and what to discard.
For " occult phenomena " are so easily simulated and their very
existence is so hotly debated that any treatment whatever will be
condemned by those readers whose predilections have led them to
cherish special prejudices. In the choice of his material Dr.
Tischner has not been especially wise ; at least, his book thus
strikes the present writer, who freely admits his own pecuHar
prejudices. Moreover it is perhaps unfair to compare his work
with those of his predecessors, whose aims difl'ered possibly from
his own. Podmore's position remains unchallenged, whatever we
may think of his diy and even caustic comments at the expense
of the spiritualists. After all he erred upon the right side and
escaped the ponderous style of Kiesewetter, whose historical work
is not so well known in England as it might be. Indeed Dr.
Tischner's work resembles the Englishman's rather than the
German's.
It is popular and, for its size, surprisingly accurate, a feature
which naturally commends itself to those who favour truth rather
than propaganda. Starting from the rise of the modern spiritualistic
movement, Tischner discusses the influence of the mesmerists in
laying the ground for the later doctrines. In dealing with the
subject he favours the older views rather than propounding any
newer ideas founded upon original research. With Podmore he
passes over as scarcely worthy of mention the very remarkable
manifestations among early American Shakers, an omission partly no
doubt due to the rarity of Shaker literature in European libraries.
Similarly he neglects to comment upon the rajspings in the Potter
family at Glenn's Falls which took place some seventeen years
before the Hydesville manifestations. On the other hand, realising
the importance of the Joller and Kettelhut poltergeist cases he
mentions them both, and among mediums actually includes Henr}^
B. Allen whilst neglecting the far more important Mary Hollis.
Nov., 1924 Reviews 337
In selecting his cases and commenting upon them, however, Dr.
Tischner has obviously found some difficulty. Thus his perspicacity,
which is well shown in his disdain for the so-called evidence
regarding psychic photography, deserts him when he comes to
deal with such mediums as Eeese or such investigators as Kotik.
His observations upon Kluski are, on the other hand, to be
commended, whilst we cannot assent to his summing up of the
evidence in favour of the Goligher phenomena. Chapter III. deals
almost exclusively with the English and American work upon the
mental phenomena, and his section upon the cross-correspondences
is likely to assist these Continental students who, not fully con-
versant with English, find these cases of some considerable diffi-
culty. Generally speaking, the book is written for German-sjDeaking
p)eoples and fulfils its aim in a way which is really quite admirable.
Had Dr. Tischner been more cautious, both in his selection and in
his consideration of evidence, the book might, we think, have
become the standard modern German authority upon the subject
with which it deals. As it is, however, the author has allowed several
avenues of attack to be opened- upon him. Thus the complete
omission, we think, of the case of Mrs. Blake is almost as extra-
ordinary as the apparent failure to reaUse the enormous importance
of the organised phenomena occurring with Willy Schneider as
compared with these alleged to take place with Guzik or Kluski.
More also might have been made of the book tests and the
•evidence for psychometry. But apart from this weakness the
book exhibits many highly commendable characteristics, and if
only the author successfully resists the omnipresent temptation to
accept evidence upon other grounds than its own inherent solidity,
Ave may expect further and more detailed work from the same
pen which will remain of permanent value amidst the debris of
forgotten scribbhngs which burden our shelves.
E. J. Dingwall.
II. From Agnosticism to Belief : An Account of Further Evidence for
Survival. By J. Arthur Hill. (Methuen & Co. 1924.
7s. 6d. net.)
The author describes the progress of his mental attitude from
agnosticism to belief in a spiritual world and a future life. He
a,lso states his opinions on various psychological, religious, and
philosophical problems which he has encountered on the way or
1
338 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1924
discerned from the farthest stage which he has reached. His
conversion seems to have been due mainly to his experiences
with a single medium, Mr. Wilkinson, who has remarkable powers
of clairvoyance and trance-speaking. Mr. Hill gives strong reasons
for considering that some veridical communications purporting ta
be given through this medium by the spirits of persons recently
deceased can be explained more satisfactorily as due to spiritistic
agency than on any other basis. He admits that " coercive
proof " of such an origin cannot be obtained, but he contends
that the facts were not within the medium's knowledge or revealed
to him by telepathy. In some cases, he shows that they were
not within the knowledge of himself or of any person of his
acquaintance. The possibility of telepathy from some distant
mind, which has no connecting link with sitter or medium, makes
too great a demand on his credulity and, as an explanation of
the phenomenon, is attended with the difficnlty of accounting for
the agency by which the facts are selected from the distant
mind (page 90). In a later chapter on " The Subconscious," he
suggests that we are " all in connexion with each other in the
subliminal levels " (page 148), but he does not discuss the bearing
which this speculative proposition may have on the scope of
telepathy. He nowhere mentions the Theosophical doctrine of
the Akashic Record. In support of the spiritistic theory he relies
on the fact that there are other mediums, who have powers
similar to those of Mr. Wilkinson and obtain equal results. He
also relies on the many records of apparitions as pointing in the
same direction, but he does not lay stress on physical phenomena,
spirit photogTaphy, and the direct voice, chiefly because he does
not consider his experience on these lines to have been sufficient.
Physical phenomena in general do not seem to him to have
much spiritualistic interest, for at the most they only prove the
existence of new forces. In this connection he might well have
discussed the frequent cases in which the phenomena are accom-
panied with communications purporting to come from the spirits
responsible for the manifestations. It is not always easy to ascribe
such claims to subliminal dramatisation. On the whole, the basis for
his opinions seems rather narrow, the foundation might have been
enlarged to embrace recorded observations of classes of allied pheno-
mena. He sums up his case so moderately and fairly in pages
178, 179, that one much regrets the omission to deal with som^e
Nov., 1924 Reviews 339
excluded questions, on which his opinion would have been read
with interest.
He discusses some psychological problems, as well as the contact
between psychical research and religion, the difference between
the intuitional and scientific methods of seeking truth, the nature-
of the after life and the scheme of evolution, without throwing new
light on these subjects. In the last chapter, " Final Conclusions,"'
he has recourse to the writings of Hebrew prophets, Omar
Khayyam and Browning for his ideas and illustrations. He has
reached what he calls a mild orthodoxy, a belief in a spiritual
evolution in a friendly universe with dim consciousness of an all-
pervading God. It is an interesting and suggestive work writtea
in a pleasant and easy style. . A. W. Trethewy.
III. A Magician Among the Spirits. By Houdini [pseud, i.e. Weiss^
Harry]. (New York, Harper & Brothers, 1924, pp. xix. 294. $4
net.)
I THTNK it was Johnson who pointed out the fact that knowledge
is of two kinds : we know a subject ourselves, or we know where
we can find information upon it. Though Houdini's knowledge
of psychical research may be most profound, he has successfully
hidden this fact from the reader of A Magician Among the Spirits.
And the historian of the future who has to refer to the " impartial
results of many years of careful study " (see advertisement), will
deserve all the pity he gets.
When I opened the volume and found two pages of " errata
and addendum " I feared the worst. Another two pages could
easily be compiled. What are we to think of the claim {vide
jacket) that the book " forms a valuable chapter in the crusade
for truth," when we are told that Crawford's book was " pub-
lished by David Gow " (p. 177), and that the Crewe Photo-
graphers " consist of " Mr. Hope. Mrs. Buxton, Mrs. Deane, and
Mr. Vearnacombe " [sic] (p. 123) ?
Houdini tells us on page 63 that Mr. Dingwall had caught
Eusapia Palladino cheating and " stated positively " that he knew
her to be a fraud. For the sake of posterity v,'e will inform Houdini
that Mr. Dingwall never saw Eusapia in his life, and that he is
not at all certain that she was always fraudulent. On page 128
we are told that Mr. Harry Price had a sitting with Mrs. Deane,
whereas the fact is that Mr. Price has never had a sitting with
340 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov., 1924
this particular photographic medium. These are only a few of
the silly mis-statements in Houdini's " crusade for truth," and
none of those mentioned has been corrected in the list of errata.
We are almost tempted to say with Macbeth :
" And be these
jugghng fiends no more believed " !
There is an interesting chapter on Slade, and an alleged con-
fession extracted from the slate-writing medium by a namesake of
Houdini's—Remigius Weiss. The " confession " is printed on
page 99, but why this most important document has not been
reproduced in facsimile is a mystery not elucidated by the author.
As there are no fewer that six portraits of Houdini scattered
throughout the pages, it is to be regretted that photography was
not brought in as a witness to this very strange " confession."
Houdini records (p. 20), another confes.sion by Ira, the survivor
of the two Davenport brothers, that their " phenomena " were
produced " by perfectly natural jneans."
Houdini gravely warns us (p. 189) that " not the least of the
evils of Spiritualism is the insanity which it causes," and informs
lis that an " English doctor," wisely unnamed, " has estimated
the number of such cases at a million." I am afraid that the
p)erusal of Houdini's book will not effect any cures.
Students of the " nu speliug " will find many choice examples
in A Magician Among the Spirits. We read of Eva C. and the
Villa " Carmine " ; Mile. " Tomchick " ; Mr. " Baggley," etc., etc.
The author informs us in his Introduction that he doubts " if any
one in the world Jias so complete a hbrary on modern Spirituahsm
"
as Houdini. What a pity he did not make use of it
!
No. CCCCX.—Vol. XXI. December, 1924
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A CONVERSAZIONE
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i,
Oh WEDNESDAY, JANUARY i^tk, 1925, a( ^ p.m.
Tea, for which a charge of is. will be made, will be provided
between 4 and 4.45 p.m., and it is hoped that later a talk on
" Life in a Haunted House " will be given by Mrs. X, introduced by
Dr. Schiller.
It is requested that all Members and Associates who intend to be
present will inform the Secretary beforehand, so that she may arrange
about the tea. Members and Associates u<ho wish to bring a friend are
asked to apply to the Secretary for a ticket not later than January -fh.
N.B.
—
Members and Associates ivill be admitted on signing their natnes
at the door. J'isitors ivill be admitted on production ofan invitation
card signed by a Member or Associate. Each Member or Associate
is allowed to invite one friend.
342 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Dec, 1924
THE SEANCE ROOM.
We publish in this issue of the Journal a photograph (Plate 1)
of the interior of the new Seance Room, in which over forty
sittings have already been held. (For plan, see Journal,
November 1923, p. 151.)
At the extreme right is the note-taker's chair, and in front
of it, the note-taker's table, on which are two rheostats for
the central inverted bowl lights and a box for taking notes,
internally illuminated through ruby glass. A little to the
front and to the left of the table is the gramophone, and
behind it, a camera on tripod. Above the camera and to
the right are two black switches, a maximum and minimum
thermometer, and, just above, a double lamp bracket, with
one of the bulbs enclosed in a ruby shade. A similar attach-
ment can be seen on the left hand wall and both of these
brackets are controlled separately by sliding rheostats, one of
which can be seen a little beneath and to the left of the
thermometer. Each rheostat is fitted with a sliding scale
attachment.
The cabinet curtains are black satin and slide on rollers
along a bow-shaped bar from corner to corner. Just within
the cabinet can be seen the medium's chair in the centre,
a little table for experiments, and in the ceiling one of the
hooks for suspending scales. In front of the cabinet stands the
magnesium light apparatus, which is smokeless and adjustable.
The inverted bowl fitting, suspended from the ceiling just
by the air grid, has been specially designed for this room
and provides upward and downward motion, the bowl itself
being detachable by means of two bayonet catches. Within
the bowl, which is enamelled white inside, are four lamps
on a separately-wired double series, two being of ruby glass
and two of white glass, and all controlled at three different
points in the room.
Just behind the arm-chair to the left is the sliding shutter
which covers the window and effectually excludes light.
Heating is provided by a couple of electric radiators, one of
which can be seen behind the note-taker's table. As fresh
air enters, stale air is drawn out through the central grid
in the ceiling by means of an electric fan outside the room.
r
PLATE 2.
Dec, 1924 Cases 343
CASES.
P. 294. 1. .
A Dream Premonition of a Photographic Phenomenon.
The following case is especially interesting as apparently an
incident promised in a dream was fulfilled at a later period
through the phenomenon of a photographic " extra " occurring
upon an exposed plate. The case has been known to us for
some considerable time, and late in 1922, when the Society's
Research Officer, Mr. Dingwall, was preparing a general report
on psychic photography, it was decided to include this to-
gether -with several others as deserving especial attention.
Circumstances, however, made it impossible to carry out this
scheme,^ and this case therefore is printed separately as it
stands ; it is hoped to pubhsh another one of equal interest
in due course. Mr. Dingwall has had a considerable corres-
pondence with Lady Grey, who is the principal witness in the
case. At his request she very kindly drew up the following
statement concerning the occurrence. The Society possesses
copies of the statements made by Lady Grey's sons to whom
she related tlie content of her dream.
WiLSFORD Manor,
'
'
Salisbury.
•
- -
,
fe ..
-
Jan. 29, [1923].
Dear Mr. Dingwall,
The sequence of dates and events in the case of the Hand-
Photograph is as follows. I first heard of the Crewe Circle in
the winter of 1916. In the simimer of 1917 I went to Crewe,
Mr. Hope knowing my name, and I obtained photographs that
showed " extra spirits," but nothing that we recognised as my
son. I was naturally disappointed, but extremely interested, as
we thought we recognised two of the faces : and the Crewe Circle
had impressed me favourably, appearing honest, and showing no
curiosity ;
they asked no questions, and I had brought my own
pktes, signed them, and placed them in the slide. On my return
home, and later in the summer, I had a dream, in which my son
said that he would go to Crewe with me and stand behind me,
putting his hand on my left shoulder ; and he would try to get
iSee Journal, May 1923, p. 82; July 1923, 111-114.
344 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Dec, 1924
photographed doing this. My younger son, at my wish, wrote
this down, and in October he and I went to Crewe. Mr. Hope
knew nothing of my dream ; the sitting took place exactly as the
previous one had, and the photograph of a hand on my shoulder
was on one of the six plates exposed on that occasion.^ Again
I had brought my own plates.
Apart from the spiritistic hypothesis, it is interesting as evidence
of some liind of supernormal activity. Perhaps it is a good case
of thought photography, for it followed my dream; and possibly
the boy's presence helped, he having written down the dream
and standing as witness to it. As an argument in favour of
Hope, if we take it as spirit photography, it may be said that
had he been fraudulent on this occasion it is a series of young
men's faces he would have tried to show on the plates, and not
a hand. Further, as there was a considerable lapse of time
between my first sitting with him in July 1917 and my next in
October of that year, he had ample opportunity to equip himself
with some photograph of my soldier son's face, either from the
Press or some photographer, to work from fraudulently to this
end.
There still stands, however, the objection that you may bring
forward that, having told my family of my dream, I may
have told it to Hope. You have only my word that I did not
do so, but one might say against this that the bare fact of my
having taken the precaution to get my younger son to write the
dream down and date it, in the case of our obtaining good results
at Crewe, is in itself some testimony to my anxiety to see this
matter through in order and with care.
I did not want Hope to know anything about my dream, so that
his conscious mind might not bias the result, even though it
were supernormally, for I was eager for the facts to support the
authenticity of my dream.
It seems to me a case of interest, whether it stands either for
thought-photography or spirit-return. ;
-
As an argument for thought-photography we cannot close our
minds '
to the possibility of my own conscious mind and that of
my younger son influencing results, though supernormally.
On the other hand, I have another experience that came through
Plate 2 shows the result of the sitting with apparently a left hand and
wrist resting upon Lady Grey's left shoulder.
Dec, 1924 Cases 345
the channel of a dream that would stand in support of the
spiritistic hypothesis. The thing is strengthened by my son having
known in Earth-life of my psychic dreams. This experience I
speak of is recorded in the Earthen Vessel, the book-test known as
the Ecclesiasticus Book-test.^ You will find it in the index of
the book. Please look it up, if it is not too much trouble ?
I think it provides unusually good evidence, cunningly contrived
to meet the objection of telepathy from the living.
I hope you will forgive my writing at such length, but I think
you should know all there is about this case.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) Pamela Grey.
II.
L. 1260. A Eemaekable Case of Vision op the Dying.
By Sir William Barrett, F.E.S.
The evidence of Visions of the Dying, when they appear to
see and recognize some of their relatives of whose decease
they were unaware, aiJords perhaps one of the strongest
arguments in favour of survival. I have given some striking
instances of these visions of the dying in my book, On the
ThresJiold of the Unseen, and other cases will be found iu
the Proceedings of our Society. Even Prof. Richet states
that he regards these facts as very important, and more
expKcable by the spiritist theory than by cryptsesthesia, and
he adds that " Among all the facts adduced to prove survival,
these [visions of the dying] seem to me to be the most
disquieting," i.e. from his own (materialistic) point of view.
We must, however, remember that hallucinations of the
dying are not infrequent. Expectancy may possibly account
for these ; the dying person being under the hallucination he
or she has seen some deceased relatives. Hence the chief
evidential value of these visions depends on conclusive proof
that the dying person was wholly ignorant of the decease of
the person he or she saw. The importance of the case I
am about to narrate is enhanced, from the extraordinary
care taken to prevent any knowledge of the illness or death
^See The Earthen Vessel, p. 79.
346 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. dec, 1924
of the person, whose vision was seen, reaching the percipient.
The present case was related to me by Lady Barrett ; it
occurred when she was in attendance on a patient in the
Mothers' Hospital at Clapton, of which she is the Obstetric
Surgeon.
Lady Barrett, in January last, received an urgent message
from the Resident Medical Officer, Dr. Phillips, to come to a
patient, Mrs. B., who was in labour and suffering from serious
heart failure. Lady Barrett went at once, and the child
was delivered safely, though the mother was dying at the
time. After seeing other patients Lady Barrett went back
to Mrs. B.'s ward, and the following conversation occurred,
which Lady Barrett wrote down on her return home :
When I entered the ward,—Lady Barrett says,—Mrs. B. held
out her hands to me and said :
" Thank you, thank you for
what you have done for me,—for bringing the baby. Is it a
boy or girl 1
" Then holding my hand tightly, she said :
" Don't
leave me, don't go away, will you ?
" And after a few minutes,
while the House Surgeon carried out some restorative measures,
she lay looking up towards the open part of the room which
was brightly lighted, and said :
" Oh, don't let it get dark,
—
it's getting so dark, — — — darker and darker." After a few
moments she looked up again with a radiant smile and said :
" Oh, lovely,—lovely." " What is lovely ? " I asked, " What I see,"
she replied. I said :
" What do you see ?
" She repHed :
" Oh,
lovely brightness,—wonderful beings. Oh, light, beautiful bright-
ness." Then looking steadily towards one place for a few moments
she said :
" Why, it's Father ! Oh, he's so glad I'm coming,
he is so glad. Oh, it is lovely, if only P. (her husband) could
come too." Her father had died some time previously.
She welcomed her husband, who had been sent for, and spoke
of " Our Baby " to him. The baby was brought for her to see
and she said :
" Perhaps for Baby's sake I might stay, but Oh !
the lovely brightness." To her husband she said :
" You won't
let Baby be put out to anyone who won't love him, will you ?
"
Then she gently pushed him to one side saying :
" Let me see
the lovely brightness," and shortly afterwards she died, smiling
happily.
Dr. Phillips who was present, after reading the above notes,
Dec, 1924 Cases 347
writes to me saying that she " fully agrees with Lady Barrett's
account."
The most important evidence is, however, given by the'
Matron of the Hospital, to whom I wrote, and who has sent
me the following account :
" I was present shortly before the death of Mrs. B., together
with her husband and her mother. Her husband was leaning
over her and speaking to her, when pushing him aside she said :
" Oh, don"t hide it, it's so beautiful." Then turning away from
him towards me, I being on the other side of the bed, Mrs. B.
said :
" Oh, why there's Vida,"' referring to a sister of whose
death three weeks previously she had not been told. Afterwards
the mother, who was present at the time, told me (as I have
said) that Vida was the name of a dead sister of Mrs. B.'s, of
whose illness and death she was quite ignorant, as they had care-
fully kept this news from Mrs. B. owing to her serious illness.
(Signed) Miriam Castle,
Matron^
I asked Dr. Phillips to try and obtain the independent
report of Mrs. B.'s mother, who, as the Matron stated, was
also present at the time. This was kindly done, and I have
received the following interesting and informative letter from
Mrs. Clark (Mrs. B.'s mother), with whom also I had an inter-
view subsequently :
Highbury. N. 5.
I have heard you are interested in the beautiful passing of
my dear daughter's spirit from this earth on the 12th day of
January, 1924.
The wonderful part of it is the history of the death of my
dear daughter, Vida, who had been an invalid some years. Her
death took place on the 2.5th day of December, 1923, just two
weeks and four days before her younger sister, Doris, died. My
daughter Doris (Mrs. B.) was very ill at that time, and the
Matron at the Mothers' Hospital deemed it unwise for Mrs. B.
to know of her sister's death. Therefore when visiting her we
put off our mourning and visited her as usual. All her letters
were also kept by request until her husband had seen who they
might be from, before letting her see them. This precaution was
taken lest outside friends might possibly allude to the recent
348 Journal of Society for Psychical Researcli. Dec, 1924
bereavement in writing to her, unaware of the very dangerous
state of her health.
After the delivery of her baby my dear child was sinking rapidly ;
at first she said : It is all so dark, I cannot see." A few
seconds after a beautiful radiance lit up her countenance ; I
know now it was the light of Heaven, and it was most beautiful
to behold. My dear child said :
" Oh, it is lovely and bright ;
you cannot see as I can." She fixed her eyes on one particular
spot in the ward, saying :
" Oh God, forgive me for any thing
I have done wrong." After that she said : "I can see Father, he
wants me, he is so lonely." She spoke to her Father saying :
" I am coming," turning at the same time to look at me,
saying :
" Oh, he is so near." On looking at the same place
again, she said, with rather a puzzled expression :
" He has Vida
with him," turning again to me saying :
" Vida is with him."
Then she said :
" You do want me, Dad, I am coming." Then
a very few parting words or sighs were expressed, nothing very
definite or clear. With great difficulty, and a very hard strain,
she asked to see the " man who married us," this was to her
husband, who was standing on the opposite side of the bed.
His name she could not say ; it was the Rev. Maurice Davis, of
All Saints, Haggerstone, E., and he was sent for. He had known
my dear child for some years, and was so impressed by the
vision that he quoted it in his Parish Magazine for February last.
Yours respectfully,
(Signed) Mary C. Clark.
In reply to my letter, the Kev. Maurice Davis tells me
that V'hen he arrived at the bedside of Mrs. B. she was un-
conscious, and soon after passed through the gates of death,
which to her formed the entrance to a radiant life, free from
the suffering she had so long endured. He heard about the
vision from Mrs. Clark just after it had taken place, and
briefly narrates the fact in the Parish Magazine he sent me,
emphasising the great care the mother and other relatives had
taken, to prevent any news of the illness and death of the
sister, whose vision was seen, reaching Mrs. B.
The Rev. Maurice Davis, at my request, kindly called upon
me and gave me the particulars of the vision which he had
beard from the Matron and Mrs. Clark. These corresponded
Deo., 1924 Cases 349
accurately to what has been given above. The husband's
evidence I have tried to obtain, but so far without success ;
he has abeady married again, and probably wishes to forget
his first wife.^
III.
L. 1261. Two Cases of Co-incidental Dreams.
We print below a report of a case in which two persons
—
husband and wife—dreamt very similar dreams on the same
night. A first account of the incident was given to the
secretary, Miss Newton, in conversation by Mr. B. Jordan-
Smith, one of the dreamers and a Member of the Society.
Subsequently Mr. Jordan-Smith wrote to Miss Newton as
follows :
-
2nd March, 24.
Further to my conversation with you on Tuesday afternoon
last, I enclose you statement of two dreams experienced the
same morning by myself and wife on the 11th February, 1924,
and related at breakfast time.
I may, however, mention that on awakening I generally go
over the details of any such dreams that strike me, with a
view to relating or recording later. If the dream is very marked
I generally make a shorthand note of it in a note-book kept
at the bedside. I did not, however, make such a note of this
particular dream until both were related at breakfast time about
8.45 a.m.
There is just the possibility in this case of a telepathic im-
pression being received of my dream by Mrs. Smith, as I generally
awaken first. Otherwise it seems to support Mrs. Henry Sidgwick's
suggestion on telepathy that you mentioned. B. Jordan-Smith.
With this letter was enclosed the following statement
:
Dream.
B. Jordan-Smith. 11-2-24. 7 a.m.
I awoke from a dream about 7 a.m., as follows,
—" That Annie
^ Any mothei'S who read this narrative will be sure to ask what has become
of the baby? When it was a few mouths old the grandmother, Mrs. Clark,
asked to have charge of it. She most tenderly cared for it until the husband,
]VIr. B., insisted on taking it to his own home. This could not be prevented,
but, lacking the care and attention the delicate babe had hitherto received, it
languished and died. . . :
350 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Dec, 1924
(Mrs. B. J.-S.) was cuddliug to her face a long necked bird,
a sort of a cross between a turkey and a pheasant. Its beak
and head was rubbing Annie's eyes (mostly left eye). I was
ajjprehensive that it might damage the eyes with its beak, and
I said,
—" be careful of your eyes." Annie said something about
it would be alright.
I related this at breakfast time about 8-45 a.m. to Mrs. Jordan-
Smith, when she remarked she had a dream early this morning
about a swan and her eyes as follows :
Dream. .
Mrs. A. Jordan-Smith. 11-2-24.
Sea was coming on a sort of incline and I threw a bit of
something on to the water for a dog to fetch out. The dog
ran to get this. I saw coming up this incline a swan, which
went for the dog. I crouched down and the swan's neck was
over me. I kept quiet, and said to Ben, " I suppose it could
hurt me." Ben said, " Oh rather ! it could have your eyes out."
A correct statement.
A. Jordan-Smith.
B. Jordan-Smith.
L. 1262.
We also print another case of two co-incidental dreams in
which, one of the- dreamers was Miss Ann Jofies, as she has
been called. Eeports of some of Miss Jones' earlier experiences
have been sent to us and three of them will be found in
Mrs. Sidgwick's paper Phantasms of the Living [Proc. S.P.R.,
Vol. XXXIII., pp. 317, 330 and 352). It will be noticed
that the dreams occurred some time ago in December, 1919.
A verbal report of them was given by Miss Jones to the
Editor, Mrs. Salter, very shortly afterwards and the written
accounts, printed below, were enclosed in a letter written
to Mrs. Salter by Miss Jones on March 9, 1920. The case
was held back at the time as it was hoped that further
evidence might be obtained in regard to another similar case
in which Miss Jones was concerned, and the two cases could
then be printed together. It has not, however, been possible
to obtain this evidence and the present seems a favourable
Dec, 1924 Cases 351
opportunity to print the case. The friend to whom Miss
Jones related her dream on the day of its occurrence—whose
corroborative statement is printed below—is the Mr. M. who
was concerned in the case which Mrs. Sidgwick relates on
p. 330 of her paper.
Statement by Miss Ann Jones.
(Enclosed in letter to Mrs. Salter, dated March 3rd, 1920.)
I was staying in my rooms at on the morning of Tuesday,
Dec. 29, 1919. I was awakened from an unusually deep sleep
at 7.45 by the woman who calls me every morning. I sat up
in bed and was aware of her movements in the room, but was
unable to reply to her customary remarks on account of a vision
of Heaven closing in the shape of an immense dark-blue-purple-
violet globe with a segment still open from which a radiance
of light and music was coming towards me. As the light and
colour faded the beat of the music became more intense. Finally
I made an effort to arouse myself, and turned from the side
of the room where I had been seeing the vision to get out of
bed. I saw standing on a mirror over the fireplace a small
white toy elephant which I had bought some weeks earlier as
a Christmas present for a child, but had not given away. The
sight of this toy completely banished the effect of light and music
and I was awake. I spoke to no one of the experience until
late that afternoon when Mr. [M.] came to see me. I then told
him this story with special reference to the heavily stressed nature
of the music. He left the house before 6 o'clock and my sister
E. did not arrive from Stepney until after 6.30. She had not
met him on the way. [Ann Jones.]
Statement by Miss E. Joyies.
At Loughton, in Essex, on the morning of Tuesday, 29th
December, 1919, I dreamt I saw my sister [Ann] walking up
a slight incline and disappearing into a mound. This I knew
to be Heaven. I stood watching for a few moments, when she
re-appeared from round the back of the mound, this time in
the shape of three small white elephants, which moved briskly,
in single file, down the incline towards me. I was wondering
in what fashion to address my sister in her triplicate form,
when I awoke with a start to find it was 7.4-5 in the morning.
I spent the whole day in Stepney, and in the evening went
352 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Dec, 1924
to [Miss Ann Jones' lioiise], arriving there about 6.30 p.m.
It was not until some hours later that I suddenly remembered
the dream and related it to my sister.
E. [Jones.]
In her covering letter of March 9, 1920, Miss A^m Jones
says :
She [Miss E. Jones] told me at the time that she'd been called
at 7.30 and fell asleep till 7.50.
In reply to a letter from Mrs. Salter asking whether he
could give an account of the dream related to him by Miss
Ann Jones on December 29th, Mr. M. wrote as follows :
Feb. 26, 1920.
. . . Such is my memory now that try as I may I cannot
clearly recall the dream [Ann] told me, though I remember it
being told very well. I think there was some small figure came
in at the end of it. . . .
W M .
It will be noted that although Mr. M. was unfortunately
not able to remember the details of the dream, he was able
to corroborate the fact that it had been related to him.
THE RESEARCH OFFICER.
The Research Officer v/ill be absent from England from the
middle of December until probably early in February. Cor-
respondence will not be forwarded.
THE MEDIUM WILLI SCHNEIDER.
The Society has recently had the opportunity of having a
series of sittings with the young Austrian medium, Willi
Schneider, who has visited England at the Society's invitation.
Some striking results have been obtained under exceptional
conditions of control, and a full report will appear later in the
Proceedings.
Dec, 1924 Brain and Speech 353
BEAIN Am) SPEECH.
By Captain Quentin C. A. Craufurd, R.N., A.M.I.B.E.
Sir Oliver Lodge's article on Brain and Speech has encouraged
me to offer a contribution to his argument from a point of view
that I hope may be original
It has been rather a hobby of mine to study the methods by
which animals communicate their thoughts. I think it is pretty
generally supposed that animals converse in some kind of a lan-
guage, but I have not found much evidence of this, and I am
inclined to think that they naturally use speech in any form very
little.
Of course, if we teach them to use our method of communi-
cating thought we introduce human methods, but the fascinating
thing to study is their method.
First of all do not let us put a fictitious value on speech.
Speech is not thought, it is not even the expression of thought*
It is a convention by which we endeavour to stimulate thoughts
in others by famihar sounds. It is impossible to awaken a thought
that is not already dormant in the brain, and before an audience
can catch the meaning of something put forward each one must
" have ears to hear." This means that each hearer must be
capable of translating what he hears into common sense.
Now we have such a thing as thought-transference along Unes
that are unfamiliar. We may suppose brain waves to exist, but
we have no proof of them. Let us call them brain waves for
the purposes of this article, and for want of a better name.
I assume that these brain waves do nothing else than stimulate
certain centres or whirlpools of thought. Consequently, I have
no difficulty in allowing the possibihty of brain waves from animals.
And the assumption has been fruitful. I have on many occasions
traced the stimulation of thought to animal friends.
Let me give an instance. WhOe I write there is a little
sparrow playing about on my shoulder, absolutely fearless and
with no apparent desire to join his own people. He is very
young, and no doubt he will leave me in the near future. Why ?
Instinct ! Nonsense ! His instinct, whatever be meant by that
word, taught him to avoid me when he fell out of the nest. I
think he wiU leave me on account of slanderous and ill-natured
354 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Dec, 1924
thoughts put into his mind by his own race. They mistrust me,
and he certainly does not.
The roundabout methods of getting at an idea which Sir Oliver
Lodge so well illustrated in Brain and Speech seem to me to
supply the clue. The other sparrows will never use any term that
relates to me as a benefactor, simply because they do not know
that I have tended and fed this little youngster and can have no
conception of me in that light, and my experience is that directly
he begins to associate with them and imbibe their ideas he will
go. Again, my experience teaches me that if I want to keep
him I have to act. I have to endeavour to make him form an
idea, and what that idea is it is absolutely impossible for me to
know, for it is a sparrow's image and not a human one.
The nearest I can get to it is " that which I (the sparrov^)
like." And I have found that no amount of affection and care
on my part will necessarily create such an image, it must be
formed in the little animal mind. Strangely enough, the surest way
to xim this animal loyalty, or if you like to call it so—love—is
to pretend to be indifferent, occupied with other things. If you
observe animals making friends, this is their way. It creates, if
I may so express it, a vacuum, a vacancy in .thought, which the
desire to be noticed fills with its own ideal. This is all very
human on the purely natural side, and almost any daughter of
Eve is well acquainted with its power, though she would probably
express it in very dif!erent words. But this, or something of this
description is, I believe, the clue.
So far I have been putting forward a theory from the animal
side, but it is time to come to the effect of animal influence upon
a human brain. In dealing with little wild animals one is far
more successful in trusting to one's own instinct, or rather the
thought of the moment, than in appealing to ordinary reason.
I am going to propose that these thoughts of the moment are
very often akin to transference of thought. Careful observation of
coincidences in an enormous number of trials lead one to this
conclusion. I will take an instance of this same little sparrow.
I had to feed him with a match to do duty for his mother's
beak and bread and milk. At first he would not offer his mouth.
There came into my mind a happy thought. I do not know how
to describe it, and must adopt a roundabout phrase or rather
paragraph in order to communicate the idea :
Dec, 1924 Brain and Speech 355
" When mother comes to feed me she suddenly enters where the
light is."
I am sorry I cannot do better than that; it is not true. The
words as I have put them never came to me at all. Yet it
woiild be also untrue to say that I saw a picture of the nest and
the mother arriving and blocking out the light. But I got it
—
the idea—in a flash, and it v^as correct.
I moved my hand suddenly instead of very gently as I had
tried before, also I moved it so as to block out much of the light.
Instantly the little mouth was all agape, and from that moment
I had no further difficulty ; I had come into contact with some-
thing understood.
Now it would be far easier for me to claim that I had reasoned
this out, and I am sure it would make much better reading, but
it would not be true.
Again I will give an instance of thought-transference from this
same little subject.
I am sorry to have to confess that I neglected to think. The
little bird had to be fed at early dawn and the bread and milk
had become very dry, but being sleepy that did not worry me at
all. In fact, I never gave the matter a moment's thought. I
woke up with the first cry of the little mite, crammed it witJi
food and dropped off into the state of dreams.
One particular dream persisted. I saw a stork which I knew
was really a flamingo in the marshes which abound in the Sahara
desert. The stork which was really a flamingo I knew to be my
little guest the sparrow, and also I knew the reeds growing in the
marshes were in reality my shaving brush. The dream evaporated
as dreams do, while I gradually wakened to the fact that the little
bird was extremely thirsty.
But how did I know this was the meaning of the dream ?
That is a secret which is difficult to discover.
The chief point was that the little bird was exceedingly thirsty,
but it required a certain amount of conviction to make me get
out of bed at that time of the morning and go and get water
from the bottle, which happened to have the shaving brush leaning
up against it, giving an enlarged view of the bristles like reeds
growing in the water.
We have many curious things here, some of which I can explain,
but the outstanding point for the present is the fact that the bird
356 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Dec, 1924:
was very thirsty, that he was appealing to me for relief and that
I got the message. That the message formed itself in my brain
in a " roundabout way " is another matter.
The point is my inner consciousness perfectly well understood.
I do not claim for a moment that I would have understood if
I had been awake. I should probably have got the message
and taken no notice of it because I would, ten chances to one,
have been thinking of something definite.
I take it that definite thought blots out vague impressions such
as thought-transference, at any rate for the time being, though
we may stumble upon the message at a later moment, finding it
Hke an isolated footprint in a frequented garden and believing
it to be our own. For perhaps the brain may be compared to a
sort of garden in which ideas grow from seeds and contribute
thoughts founded upon memorial seeds, which are the memory.
And when I say seeds, I mean literally some kind of nucleus
formed by an impression or minute injury to the brain tissues.
Thought-transference would scarcely go so far as to injure the
brain and create a memory, though the recipient might create
such a permanent record by his own act.
So I liken the impact of an outside thought to a footprint and
our own idle fancies that leave no record to footprints of our own.
Now watch the process of the transference of thought from this
little sparrow. No one else may find the key, but searching my
own memory I can find it without difficulty. Allow me to
continue my simile of the garden. I find thoughts about thirst
planted long ago when first I passed through the Suez Canal.
The desert produced mirages and away in the distance there
appeared to be innumerable marshes. I deliberately thought of
the tales I had heard about men dying of thirst being encouraged
by these mirages. While looking at them a number of flamingoes
flew out of the reeds on the right bank of the Canal. It was
the first time I had seen flamingoes in the wild state. They
went off in the direction of the mirage. Their legs trailing away
behind them brought up a magic-lantern picture I had seen as
a small child. It was a flight of storks bringing babies as presents
to various mothers :
—a German notion, I believe. Now, my
little baby sparrow fallen out of the nest with his absurd long
legs trailing out has a connection here. In that same magic-lantern
display on Christmas long ago the slide which most took my
Dec, 1924 Brain and Speech 357
fancy was a comic one of a German with a shaving brush ; it was
one of those moving slides and was real magic to me.
The coincidence of the shaving brush seen through the water
bottle I cannot explain. It was after the dream and may have
no connection. AVe can wipe it off the slate for the purposes of
this article.
Now we see the action of the brain. It clothed the idea of
thirst in memory images from that part of the garden where the seeds
of the voyage through the Suez Canal lay.
It might have clothed the idea of thirst in myriads of other
memory forms, but in this instance it chose that particular part
of the garden. I shall not try to account for this apparent
locality in the brain just now, but I may express it by saying
I happened to be walking in that particular part of the garden
just then. Or if you like it better, my consciousness happened
to be inhabiting that particular part of the brain.
But the idea of a garden is to my mind an old one—as old
as the story of Adam and Eve and the Garden of Paradise.
Here then the little sparrov>r met me on the threshold of the
subliminal world, and, knowing me as its protector, asked for drink.
This surely is beyond our three dimensional world where sparrows
are classified as a group of automatons. It seems to me to be
in that region where Sir Oliver Lodge found his dog still living
and Rider Haggard became acquainted with his dog's accident
;
a spiritual world or a place of unknown dimensions where life
does not require material to manifest itself.
Now this absurd dream is just an example of the manner in which
knowledge filters imperfectly through the brain and forms images
thrown together in a ridiculous manner. Are we to be surprised
then if communications from disembodied spirits come clothed in
absurd garments on occasion ?
The grave man of science can present equally absurd pictures
of his thoughts. He can appear absolutely ridiculous. Indeed, to
some minds he presents no other picture and we get the creation
of an image of the Professor of our comic papers.
Scientific Thought is not really a ridiculous thing, it is the
blending of two points of view that gives us the caricature.
When advanced thought crosses orthodox teaching it invariably
creates ridicule and distorted ideas. The history of discovery is
full of such things. Hence it is not only speech which is unable
358 Journal of Society for PsycJncal Research Dec, 1924
to disentangle itself from what Sir Oliver Lodge calls a roundabout
idea when the brain is not properly awake, but the brain even
in waking life acquires new knowledge by approaching it in a
roundabout way.
We can afford to be warned by the ridicule with which our
forbears clothed new ideas, ideas which to our generation are
almost self-evident facts. There were not a much larger proportion
of unreasonable men among our forefathers ; it v/as merely that
they were unable to absorb the novelty, to interpret it in terms of
ordinary experience. If they did so, it appeared a ridiculous image.
Surely then the impact of truth from an outside, unexpected or
unrecognised source, musi make its appearance in the form of a
caricature.
KEVIEWS.
I. Die Theosophie {Anthroposophie) in Psychologischer Beurteilung.
By Albert Sichler. J. F. Bergmann, Munich and Wiesbaden,
1921. Pp. 45.
This little work belongs to a series more or less popular, of
monographs on " border land questions " of nervous and psychic
life, in which it forms No. 112. It makes a gallant attempt
to convey to the German public some idea of the Theosophical
movement, started by Helena Blavatsky, and of the " anthroposophy
"
developed out of it by Rudolf Steiner. Both movements are
treated with respect as philosophies, though their psychology is
criticized ; and hardly any stress is laid on the frauds which have
accompanied the history of Theosophy. Nor does it seem an
insuperable objection to Mr. Sichler that both doctrines should
be entirely composed of the arbitrary assertions of their authors,
for whjch no shadow of proof is offered. Altogether, he must
be a very charitable man. This characteristic is also indicated
by his readiness to swallow Freud's psycho-analysis and Indian
" Yoga," which he considers far superior to " theosophy." They
may be, but a little regard for the methods of scientific proof
would add to the credibility of both of them, as of " theosophy
"
and " anthroposophy." F. G. S. S.
II. Crystal-Gazing : A Study in the History, Distribution, Theory
and Practice of Scrying. By Theodore Besterman. William
Rider and Son, Ltd. 5s. net.
Mr. Besterman's painstaking compilation describes the various
Dec, 1924 Revieivs 359
methods of scrying, reviews the history of the practice in many
countries—quoting many curious passages from the by-ways of
literature, ancient and modern—and finally deals with the scientific
side, quoting Miss G-oodrich-Freer, Mr Andrew Lang, and other
S.P.R. investigators. The author's general conclusion is that
" scrying is a method of bringing into the consciousness of the
scryer by means of a speculum through one or more of his senses
the content of his subconsciousness, of rendering him more sus-
ceptible to the reception of telepathically transmitted concepts,
and of bringing into operation a latent and unknown faculty of
perception "
(p. 160).
The book is of interest to the anthropologist and folklorist
rather than to the psychical researcher, for it gives no new
facts, the author's experiments having yielded nothing worthy
of inclusion ; but it will be a useful reference volume for anyone
who takes up this branch of investigation and wishes to know
something of its history. J. A. H.
III. The Company of Avalon : a Study of the Script of Brother
Symon, Suhprior of Winchester Abhey in the time of King
Stephen. By F. Bligh Bond, F.R.I.B.A. (B. H. Blackwell,
Oxford, pp. xxxvii + 159. 7s. 6d.).
In the " Company of Avalon," Mr. Bligh Bond publishes extracts
from a series of scripts relating to the early history of Glaston-
bury Abbey, obtained since the publication of " The Gate of
Remembrance " in 1918. The interest aroused by the earlier
work has opened up new channels of " automatic " activity, and
in the present volume the author has been able to avail himself
of scripts received through three automatists new to this particular
subject, namely a lady called " S.," Mr. Philip Lloyd and Mrs.
Travers Smith. The last named is, of course, well known in
connection with the recently published " Oscar Wilde " Scripts.
As the sub-title indicates, the author deals mainly with the
script emanating from and through the communicator called
" Brother Symon," who claims to be in some fashion rein-
carnated in the automatist " S." The period of history covered
is from the earliest times to the destruction of the Abbey by
file in 1184. The documentary evidence for this period is very
slight, and the remains on the site of the Abbey are necessarily
scanty. Independent sources, to which the automatists are stated
to have had no access, bear out some of the statements made
360 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1924
in the scripts, but it is not likely that future research will en-
able verification to be carried as far as was possible in the case
of " The Gate of Remembrance " scripts. The statements (illus-
trated with automatic drawings) that the original settlement was-
a " hut circle," are very interesting, but not all his readers will'
be able to agree with Mr. Bond's interpretation of the data
in terms of transcendental mathematics.
The author, in this book, shows himself more inclined than
he was in 1918 to accept the ''
script intelligences " at their
own valuation, and he boldly develops some of their statements
in the direction of speculative theory.
The author gives us some information, perhaps as much as
he can, about the automatist " S." She has always been in-
terested in monks (page 13, footnote), and her control is " Brother
Symon."' Is her interest in monks a cause or an effect of
" Brother Symon " ? The reader whose mind is not already
made up will find this a very difficult question to answer.
To those who are eager for •
more, Mr. Bond holds out a hope
of a further book. He does not appear to have had time yet
to make a complete collation of the various scripts, and we
look forward with lively anticipation to the next volume of this
extraordinary series. G-. W. L.
IV. The Rose Miraculous : How Joseph of Arimathea came to
Glaston, hearing in his bosom the Sangreal. Metrical Version
hy F. Bligh Bond of Script, by H. T. S. Central Somerset
Gazette Office, Glastonbury. Is. 6d. net.
Many of our readers will recognise under the initials H. T. S.
the name of a lady whose automatic scripts have aroused wide-
spread interest and discussion. The scripts now published differ
greatly in literary form and content from those by which she
is already known. They were produced in Mr. Bligh Bond's
presence with a fluency, 2,200 words per hour, which is all the
more astonishing as the legend they narrate was unfamiliar both
to H. T. S. and Mr. Bligh Bond. Mr. Bond in his preface writes ;
" No claim is made for the authenticity of the story here given.
. . . The final verdict to be passed upon the tale will depend
upon the extent to which scholarly analysis may prove its accor-
dance with what is most fundamental in the great cycle of "Grail
'
literature, and what is most probable historically in the traditions
of the mission of Joseph."
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. XXI
1923-1924
A.
Abeeceombie, Blanche, Reference to the case of - - - - 145
Alrutz, Dr. S., Concerning the Hypnotic Experiments of - - 177-179
Reply by 179-184
„ On Case L. 1226 42
„ „ the medium Megalis 61, 96, 147
A Magician among the Spirits, Review of 339
American Journal of Psychology, ^ote on ...... 240
American Society for Psychical Research, Journal of
62, 77, 148, 203-204, 219-220, 254-256, 286, 297, 331-332
American Society for Psychical Research, Proceedings of - - 62-63, 216
Aphasia, Dr. Henry Head on ------- - 264
Apparition at the time of a fatal illness 100
„ of a Uving person 290
„ of Booty on Stromboli 334
Appeal for donations towards the expenses of removal and of Research,
Response to 29-30, 36-37, 48, 99, 110
„ A Further, for the Research Fund 81-82
Response to - - 110, 130, 152, 169-170, 229, 239, 290, 327
Archives Suisses de Neurologie et de Psychiatric, Note on - - - 62
Arkiv for Psykologi och Pedagogik, 'isote on - - - - - - 147
ii Index to Vol. XXI.
Armstrong, Charles W., Case contributed by 243
Auditory Hallucination 114, 119
Aura, A proposed investigation of the so-called ----- 16-17
Aus dem Beiche des Hellsehwunders, neue retroskopische Versuche,
Review of 324
Automatic Messages (Table-tilting, writing, etc.)
10, 33, 48-49, 53, 62, 89-90, 144, 145, 171, 172, 203, 359, 360
B.
Baddeley, Colonel C. E., On Mi-. Hooper's Experimental Study of
the Appreciation of Time by Somnambules ----- 17-19
„ Obituary Ill
Barrett, Lady, Evidence contributed by 346
Barrett, Sir William F.—
Cases, Reports of 157, 293, 345
Concerning Professor Richet's Thirty Years of Psychical Research 139-143
On the Price-Hope case 199-200
„ work of M. Camille Flammarion 45-48
Psychical Research, An Early Society for 67
„ Experiences in 228
„ Some Reminiscences of and Lessons from Fifty
Years of 290
Bayfield, Rev, M. A., Death of 35
Bazett, Miss L. M., A Communication through 119
Beilby, Sir George, Obituary 306
Beraud, Marthe, Sittings with, at the ViUa Carmen and the alleged
confession of the coachman Areski - - - - - - 62, 94
Bergson, Professor Henri, On the function of the brain. Reference to - 268
Best, CUiiord S., A Laboratory for Psychic Research - - - - 16
Besterman, Theodore, Crystal Gazing : A Study in the History, Distribu-
tion, Theory and Practice of Scrying, Review of - - - - 358
Bisson, Madame J. Alexandre, Le Mediumisme et la Sorbonne - - 122
Bond, F. Bligh, On Dr. Wilkins's Criticism of the Psychical Claims
concerning Glastonbury Abbey ...... 248-249
Reply to, by Dr. H. J. Wilkins 271-272
„ The Company of Avalo7i 359
„ The Rose Miraculous 360
Book-Tests 29, 50, 269, 321-322
" Borden, Mrs.," Mediumship of 62
Boustead, Mrs., An Instance of subliminal consciousness of the lapse
of time 80
Brain and Speech 264, 299, 353
British College of Psychic Science and the Price-Hope case - - 2, 4-10
Brittain, Mrs., Incidents in sittings with - - - - 104, 167-168
Index to Vol. XXI. iii
Brody, Poltergeist case 204, 219
Bromberg, F. G., Case reported by - - 187
Brown, Miss A. M., Case contributed by - 213
Brown, Dr. William, Co-optation of, as a Member of the Council 98, 237
Browning, Oscar, Obituary 169
Bruck, Dr. Carl, References to articles by - - - - 148, 304, 333
Butler, Miss Ethel A., Case contributed by 116
„ J., Evidence contributed by 114
0.
C, Stella. See Stella C.
Cambridge Society for Psychical Research 67
Case of Apparent communication through a medium by a person living,
but suffering from Senile Dementia 87, 128
Cases
—
L. 10, 40, 43, 50, 87, 92, 100, 104, 114, 164, 166, 176, 187, 206, 213,
243, 269, 280, 290, 293, 319, 328, 345, 349, 350
M. CI. 54
P. 343
Cason, Professor Hulsey, A Simple Test for Thought-transference - 314
Castle, Miss Miriam, Evidence contributed by 347
Chenoweth-Drew Automatic Scripts 62
Children concerned in alleged poltergeist phenomena - - - - 31-32
Clairvoyance, Alleged - - 95, 148, 155-156, 204, 234, 259-263, 301-302
Case suggesting 54
Experimental work on 219, 324
Hypnotic 60-61, 96
Mediumistic 324
Modus Operandi of. Reference to experiments on - - 324
On the use of, in legal cases 94
Telepathic explanation of. Reference to experiments to
test 324
Clairvoyance, UEctoplasmie et la, by Dr. Geley, Review of - - - 300
Clark, Mrs., Case confirmed by 347
Communication, Case of apparent, through a medium by a person living,
but suffering from Senile Dementia 87, 128
Communications purporting to come from the Dead, On the difficulty
in giving names and other mediumistic disabilities - - 82, 118-120
Communicator, A Fictitious ........ 306
Communicators
—
A. V. B. 130
Bentley, Mrs. 281
Ellis, Colonel 50
Irving, Mrs. 40, 104
iv Index to Vol. XXI.
Communicators
—
McGlure, Mr. 10
Myers, F. W. H. - - - - 266
S.G. 119-120
Wilde, Oscar 203
Congress for Psychical Research at Warsaw
99-100, 109, 152-156, 219, 231, 234
Official Report 156
•
Papers read 152-154, 187
Proposals 154-155
Connaissance et la Methode Experimentale, Les Voies non Sensorielles
de la, by Professor Richet -------- 138
Controls of Stamton Moses, Review of 143
Corrections concerning cases 43,117,128,321-322
Correspondence 16-19, 64, 80, 95, 96, 117, 118, 177-184, 201, 249, 285, 299,
322-324, 334
Council elections, Meetings, etc. See Society for Psychical Research.
Crane, A. R., and Miss Crane, Case contributed by - - - - 10-16
Craufurd, Captain Quentin C. A., Brain and Speech - - . - 353
Crawford, Dr. W. J., On the work of, with the Goligher Circle 19-21, 62, 128
Crewe Circle, The Proposed Investigation of
10, 32-33, 81, 82, 111-114, 226, 227, 230-231
,, ,, Photograph of hand, obtained by Lady Grey - - - 343
Cross, Miss M. Belle, Mediumship of 203
Cross-Correspondence between Statements made through two mediums 104
Cross-Correspondences, On the 337
Crystal Gazing : A Study in the History, Distribution, Theory and Practice
of Scrying, by T. Besterman, Review of - - - - - 358
Crystal vision 157
Cysts, Dermoid, and phenomena of supernormal physiology, A possible
connection between 94
D.
d'Albe, E. E. Fournier, D.Sc, The Goligher Circle, Review of - - 19
Dallas, Miss H. A., Brain and Speech 299
„ On the process of transmission - - - - - - 118
Das Hellseh-medium Megalis in Schweden, Review of - - - - 60
Das Zweckgesetz in der Nature, Review of 253
Da\'is, Rev. Maurice, Evidence contributed by 348
Deane, Mrs., " Spirit " photography of 32, 33
de Bray, M. Gheury, Further Notes on Hypnopompic Illusions - - 71-73
de Faria, Dr. Nogueira, 0 Trabalho dos Mortos 120
de Heredia, C. M., S.J., Spiritism and Common Sense, Review of - - 44
De Tempel, Note on 147-148
Der Spiritismus, by Dr. Moll, Criticism on 333
Index to Vol. XXI. v
Des Conditions de la Certitude dans les Sciences Metapsychique • • 327
Dickinson, G. Lowes, On the review by, of Dr. Schiller's Problems of
Belief 322-323
Note by - 324
Die Theosophte {Anthroposophie) in Psychologischer Beurteilung, Review of 35&
Dingwall, E. J.
—
Appointment as Research Officer 31
Case of Pasquale Erto - - - 278
Congress at Warsaw 109, 153, 187
Experiment with the Polish medium Stephan Ossowiecki 155-156, 259'
Notes on Current Periodicals
62, 77, 94, 147, 203, 219, 239, 254, 286, 302, 331
Reviews 19, 44, 78, 94, 108, 120, 122, 300, 336
Sittings with mediums - - - - 31, 37, 155, 228, 230, 231, 278
Donohoe, Mrs., Sitting with Mrs. Brittain 167-168
Dowsing Experiments 42
Doyle, Sir Arthur Conan, Motion on the Price-Hope case - - - 28, 29
Dreams, The Phenomena of
—
Coincidental dreams 92, 349, 350
Dream memory 136, 137
„ „ recovered after many years 296
„ premonition of a photographic phenomenon - - - 343
On the problems of dreaming 59
Reciprocal dream 293
Sense-impression lasting into waking consciousness - - 294-296
Tasting, a dream of 164
Telepathic dreams 164, 319, 328
Veridical dream concerning a fatal accident ----- 206
Driesch, Dr. Hans, Reference to papers by - - - - - 77, 256
Dunraven, Lord, Experiences in Spiritualism, with D. D. Home, Publica-
tion of 236-237, 259
Dying, Case of Vision of the 345
E.
Ear of Dionysius, Correspondence on 335
„ „ Publication of a French translation of - - - 34
Edwards, Rev. F., References to articles by - 148, 203, 219-220, 254-255
Effluence, Nervous, On the question of, in certain hypnotic experiments.
See Hjrpnotism.
Ellis, Mrs., Evidence contributed by- - • • • - -51, 52
Erto, Pasquale, Mediumship of - 64, 77, 153, 228, 278-280, 286, 302, 333
„ Exposure of 279-280, 286-287
Eva C, Report of the Society for Psychical Research on. Reference to 30, 79
„ Sorbonne Report on 77, 122, 153
vi Index to Vol. XXI.
Evans, Miss Mary M., Evidence contributed by 176
Experiences in Spiritualism with D. D. Home, by Lord Dunraven, On
the publication of 236-237, 259
Experimental Study of the Appreciation of Time by Somnambules - 17-19, 37
F.
Farmer, R. R., Case confirmed by 107
Falcomer, Professor M. T., Obituary - - 306
Fisk, G. W., On The Ear of Dionysius 335
Flammarion, Camille, Corresponding Member 26
Election of, as President - - - - 27 29, 45, 236
„ Presidential Address of - - - - - 110, 236
„ „ „ English translation - 111, 130, 236
Florence, Miss S., Evidence contributed by 293
Florentine, Abraham, The case of 118-119, 145
Forecasts in Scripts concerning the War 48-49
Frankhn, Quartermaster- Sergeant A. H., Case confirmed by - 210-211
From Agnosticism to Belief, Review of 337
Ery, Miss Agnes, Review of Fraiilein Kindermann's Loh, - - 122-124
Future Life, On the American Branch of the S.P.R.'s Questionnaire on
Human Sentiment with regard to a - - - - - 322-323
G., C. H. B., Case contributed by 54-58
Gazzera, Linda, Reference to the mediumship of .... 121
Geley, Dr. Gustave, Election of, as a Corresponding Member - - 224
„ UEctoplasmie et la Clairvoyance, by 300
„ Obituary of 304
„ References to articles by 94, 148, 239-240
„ Report on the medium Erto 333
Geschichte der Okkultischen Forschung von der Antike bis zur Gegenwart,
Review of---------- - 336
Gibb, Miss Agnes H., Case confirmed by 214
Glasgow Society for Psychical Research and the alleged poltergeist
phenomena in Argyllshire 31-32
Glastonbury Abbey 248, 271-272, 360
Glerm's Falls, Early case of Tappings at 336
Glossolaly, Sitting for 230
Goligher Circle 19
Gorefield, Alleged poltergeist disturbances at - - - - 107, 229
Gower, Dr. John H., On the death and work of 35-36
Graham, A. D., " The Subconscious Mind " 29
Grey of Falloden, Lady, Cases contributed by - - - - 328, 343
Index to Vol. XXI. vii
Griffith, Mrs., Case contributed by 319
Grignon, Miss A. E., Experience in Hypnopompic Illusions - - - 74
Groups, The formation of, for discussion 327-328
Guzik, Jean, On the mediumship of
148, 152, 156, 204, 231, 239-240, 254-256, 258, 302
H.
H., J. A., Review of Besterman's Crystal Gazing 358
H. B., On the mediumship of 94-95
Hackett, J. T., My Commonplace Book, Review of - - - - 184
Obituary of 242
Hallucination, An auditory
Hallucinations experienced under special recurring conditions of light 75-77
Happich, Carl, Das Okkulte 94
Hardenberg, Graf K., Das Okkulte 94
Harris, Mrs. B. C, Evidence contributed by 189
Head, Dr. Henry, References to work by, on Aphasia 264-265, 267-268, 269
Hershey, Mrs., Mediumship of 1^8
Heuze, M. Paul, On the exposure of the medium Erto - - - 286-287
Hill, J. Arthur, From Agnosticism to Belief, by. Review of - - - 337
Hindrances and Complications in Telepathic Communication - - - 99
Hobart, Dr., Experience related by 294
HockUfEe, Jlrs. Ernest, Case reported by 319
Hodgson Memorial Fimd at Harvard, Appointment under - - - 34-35
Hoffmann, Dr. Adolf, Reference to account by, on poltergeist disturb-
ances at Brody 204
Holt, Mrs., Evidence contributed by 162-163
Home, D. D. See Lord Dunraven's Experiences in Spiritualism.
Hooper, Sydney W., An Experimental Study of the Appreciation of Time
by Somnamtndes -------- 3, 17-19, 37
Hope, William, Mr. Price's Sittmg with, Controversy on
2, 4-10, 28-29, 113, 148, 186, 192-200, 226-228, 230
„ The Society's attempts to investigate. See Crewe Circle, Proposed
Investigation of.
Horizon Ulusion 240
Houdini, A Magician among the Spirits, by. Review of - - - 339
Hyperaesthesia merging into telepathy 247
Hypnagogic and hypnopompic Illusions - - - - 64, 71-75, 151
Hypnotism, Phenomena of
—
Clairvoyance, Experimental 60-61, 96
Community of sensation
Effluence, Nervous, On the question of - -
•
Post-Hypnotic States, Appreciation of Time
Psychometry, by a hypnotised subject - - - •
- 217
177-184
- 17-19
216-219
viii Index to Vol. XXI.
Hypnotism, Phenomena of
—
Telepathic 217-218, 304
„ Stimulations at a distance. Negative report on - - 42
I
Immoetality, The Half-Belief in 322-324
Indridason, On the mediumship of 286
Irving, Rev. W. S., Cases contributed by - - - - 40, 104, 235
„ Thoughts on Trance Phenomena 82
„ „ Correspondence on 118
J.
James, Miss S. Boucher, Cases contributed by - - - - 136, 137
James, Mrs. William, Death of 35
Java, Poltergeist case in 286
Jones, Miss Ann, Correction concerning a case contributed by - - 117
Jones, Miss Ann, and Miss E., Case contributed by - - - - 350
Jones, Sir Lawrence J., elected a Vice-President ----- 35
Jordan-Smith, B., Case contributed by 349
Jordan-Smith, Mrs., Case contributed by ----- - 350
Journal of Abnormal Psychology, Note on 62
K.
Keeler, Pierre, On the mediumship of 62-63
Keyserling, Graf H., Das Okkulte 94, 204
Kimber, J. F. C, Book-Tests contributed by - - 29, 50, 269, 321-322
Kimber, Mrs., Evidence contributed by - - - - 54, 271, 322
Kindborg, Dr. Erich, References to articles by - - - - 204, 286
T^nAerm&r\n,Yiermj, Lola, or The Thought and Speech of Animals - 122
Kluski, Franck, References to the mediumship of - 62, 148, 302, 337
Kotik, N., Reference to experiments by 94, 337
Kriminal-Telepathie und Betroskopie, Review of - - - - - 60
L.
L., Ernest, Reference to the trance mediumship of - - • - 324
L., G. W., Review of Mr. Bligh Bond's T^e Corw^ani/ o/ ^m?o?!. - - 359
L——, Miss G., Case confirmed by 92
UAnnee Psychologique ......... 4-2
Laboratory for Psychical Research in Leeds ----- 16
La Lutte pour la Metapsychique, Note on 302-303
Lambert, Rudolf, Reference to an article by 148
Larken, E. P., Cases reported by 100, 164
Index to Vol. XXI. ix
Laszlo, L., Exposure of ----- - 256, 280, 286, 288
La Telepathie, Review of 124, 177
Lauritzen, Severin, Obituary notice 242-243
Leaning, Mis. F. E., Case reported by 294-295
„ Enquiry for certain references to hypnagogic and hypnopompic
experiences 64
„ On the reputed apparition of Booty on Stromboli - - - 334
„ Study of Hypyiagogic Phenomena 151
Lebecq, Bernard. See Communicator, A Fictitious.
VEctoplasme et la Clairvoyance, by Dr. Gustave Geley, Review of - 300
Le Mediumisme et la Sorhonne, by Juliette Alexandre-Bisson, Review of 122
Leonard, Mi-s., Trance phenomena of
—
Book-Tests, Concerning the 52-53, 83
Communicator, Evidence of personal identity - - - - 130
Incidents 40, 104
See also Rev. W. S. living's " Thoughts on Trance Phenomena."
LesHe, W. E., Concerning Dr. Alrutz's Hypnotic Experiments - - 177
„ Dr. Alrutz's reply to 179
Lodge, Sir Oliver
—
Arguments For and Against Survival 62, 228
" Brain and Speech " - - - 264
„ „ With reference to - - - - 299, 353
Case contributed ---------- 290
Note on Mr. Piddington's J?'orecaste in Scripts concerning the War - 48
" Our Outlook on the Universe " 220
Raymond Revised ---------- 24
Review of Richet's Traite de Metapsychique - - - - 203, 204
" Some recent Sittings in Paris with the medium Guzik " - - 258
Lola, Reference to - - - - - 127
Lola, or the Thought and Speech of Animals, by Henny Kindermann,
Review of 122
VOpinion, Notes on 240, 279, 286-288
Luminosity of Uving organisms. References to articles on 148, 153, 288
Luminous phenomena. Alleged 64, 153, 278
M.
Mackenzie, De. William, Metapsychica Moderna - - - - 126
„ On the difficulties and discouragements in psychical
research 332
„ „ the medium Erto 278
„ " Thinking " animals - - - 122, 123, 124, 127-128
^
MacRae, Miss W., Case contributed by 328
" Margery," Sittings with 333
Mason, Miss M. H., Experience of hypnopompic illusions - - . 74
Materialization phenomena. References to reports on - 121-122, 128, 148
X Index to Vol. XXI.
McClure, H., Case contributed by 10, 43
,, Mrs., Evidence contributed by 15
M'Connel, David E., Further Evidence in the case of the apparition of - 42
McGuinn, Quartermaster-Sergeant E. J., Evidence contributed by
206-208, 209-210
McGuinn, Mrs. E. J., Case contributed by 206
McKenzie, J. Hewat, and the Price-Hope case ----- 4.9
Mediumship, On the phenomenon of------ - 301
Megalis, Clairvoyant medium 60-61, 96, 147, 324
Members and Associates. See Society for Psychical Research.
" Metapsychic Science and Survival," by Professor Charles Richet - 274
Metapsychica Moderna, Review of ------ - 126
Messer, Professor August, On Sittings with Willi Schneider, Reference to 148
Meyer, Dr. A. F., Criticism of physical phenomena, Reference to - - 94
Miller, Miss, Case in connection with the mediumship of - - - 281
Mitchell, Dr. T. W., Presidential Address 35, 37
Moger, H. J. See Price-Hope case.
Moll, Dr. Albert, Der Spiritismns, by 333
Montague, Miss St. Jolm, Case contributed by 157
Morozoff, Luba, Reference to 203
Moses, Stainton, The Controls of 143
Mumler, " Spirit " photographs. Reference to 34
Munch, Kurt, Alleged clairvoyance of. Reference to - - - - 148
Murphy, Gardner, Appointment under the Richard Hodgson Memorial
Fund at Harvard 34-35
„ Telepathic Experiments by. Reference to - - - - 333
My Commonplace Book, by J. T. Hackett 184, 242
N.
Nervous Effluence, Alleged existence of a specific. See Hypnotism.
Newton, Miss I., Experiments in thought-transference - - 234-235
Nielsen, Finer, Sittings with 228, 333
Nineteenth Century, " Our Outlook on the Universe," by Sir Oliver Lodge 220
Note, Additional, on Case L. 1226 42
„ on Mr. Piddington's paper. Forecasts in Scripts concerning the
War 48
Notes on Periodicals - 42, 62, 77, 94, 147, 203, 219, 239, 254, 286, 302, 331
Nutter, Miss Helen G., Case reported by 176
0.
Obituaey : Baddeley, Colonel C. E. Ill
Beilby, Sir George, F.R.S. 306
,, Browning, Oscar 169
Falcomer, Professor M. T. 306
„ Geley, Dr. Gustave - 304
Index to Vol. XXI. xi
Observations on Mr. Price's Sitting with Mr. Hope, by the Hon. Officers
of the Society 4
Occult Review, Notes on 62. 77, 94, 203, 302
Occultism and Modern Science, Review of ------ 78
Oesterreich, T. Konstantin, Election as a Corresponding Member - 224
„ Occultism and Modern Science, by ----- 78
OMulte, Das 94, 204
Ossowiecki, Stephan, Sealed letter-reading medium
62, 155-156, 204, 234, 259-263, 333
Osty, Dr. Eugene, References to articles by .... 94, 204
0 Trabalho dos Mortos, Review of 120
Ouija-board experiments ........ 10, 33, 53
P.
Pagenstecher, De., Experiments in psychometry . . - . 216
Palladino, Eusapia, Reference to the phenomena of - - - - 79
Palmer, C. G., For and Against Survival 330
Palmistry, A suggested empirical basis for the study of - - - 303
Parapsychic Institute, Vienna 200, 272, 324
Pear, Professor T. H., Remembering and Forgetting, Review of - - 58
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, Count, Case of Mr. " Y." - - - 249
„ Concerning Professor Richet's Traite de Metapsychiqne and
the medium Sambor ....... 201
Peter, General, References to articles by 64, 219
Phantasms of the Living, by Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Additional note on a
case published in 42
„ French translation of 237
Physical phenomena 19-24, 31, 44, 62, 64, 77, 79, 94, 107, 108, 120-122, 128,
146-147, 148, 201, 204, 229-230, 231, 240, 249,
254-256, 278, 286-288, 297, 301-304, 331-333, 336-
337, 339, 352
Piddington, J. G., Election as President 224
„ Forecasts in Scripts concerning the War - - 3, 37, 48-49
„ Presidential Address 274
Piper, Mrs., A case of apparent communication through, by a person
living but suffering from Senile Dementia 87
„ Trance phenomena of. Reference to 78-79
Plenge, R., Case connected with the death of 187
Poltergeist phenomena, Alleged - - - 31-32, 107-108, 153, 204, 219, 336
Prado, Madame, Mediumship of 120-122
Precognition, Apparent indications of 50
On 163-164, 204, 275-276
Premonitory Crystal Vision - - - - - - - - 157
Presidential Addresses 110, 111, 130, 274
xii Index to Vol. XXL
Prevision. See Precognition.
Price, Harry, Library on Magic and Witchcraft 33-34
,, On the medium Guzik, Reference to - - - - - 254, 255
„ Pveport on " Stella C." 256, 297
Price-Hope case 2, 4-10, 28-29, 32-33, 113, 148, 186, 192-200, 226-228, 230
Psyche, Note on 303
Psychic phenomena, Proposed classification of - - - - - 155
„ „ Proposed prohibition of public exhibitions of - 155
Psychic Photography, Case 343
„ „ On the evidence for, submitted in response to the
Society's invitation - - - 32-33, 231
„ „ References to discussion and reports on
34, 127, 153, 219, 337
Psychical Research, A Laboratory for 16
„ ,, Glossary of terms used in, A proposed - - 154-155
„ ,, Methods and critical discrimination in - - - 332
„ „ Precise limits of, A proposed enquiry into the - 154
Two new Groups for 200-201
Psychical Research, Fifty Years of, by Sir William Barrett - - - 290
Psychische Studien, Notes on - 64, 77, 94, 148, 204, 219, 256, 286, 333
Psychometry, Experiments in. See Z., Senora Maria Reyes de.
„ References to literature on 95, 148
Pugh, H. W., Offer to the Society in connexion with psychic photo-
graphy 33, 112
R.
R., I. Bloomqtjisst, Case confirmed by 160-161
RadclyfEe-Hall, Miss M., On some Evidence of Personal Identity
obtained in recent Sittings with Mrs. Leonard - . . . 130
„ Resignation from the Council .... 258, 285
Raymmd Revised, by Sir Oliver Lodge, Review of - - - - 24
Reading closed Books 145
Remembering and Forgetting, Review of 98
Research Committee, Appointments of members of - - - - 98
Reviews 19, 24, 44, 58, 60, 78, 94, 108, 120, 122, 124, 126, 143, 184, 253,
300, 324, 336, 337, 339, 358, 359, 360
Revue Metapsychique, Notes on
62, 64, 77, 94, 148, 204, 239-240, 256, 278, 288, 333
Richet, Professor Charles
—
Address at the International Congress of Physiologists - - -138
Arguments against Survival -------- 228
Des Conditions de la Certitude dans les Sciences Metapsychique • 327
" Metapsychic Science and Survival " 274
On M. Simon's Les tables tournantes de Jersey ... - 148
Index to Vol. XXI. xiii
Richet, Professor Charles
—
References to articles by - 62, 148, 256
Thirty Years of Psychical Research 139
Traite de MHapsychique, Concerning - - - - 201, 203, 204
Roberts, Mrs. Wynn, Case contributed by 164
Robertson, Mrs. F. B. See " Case of apparent Communication through
a medium by a person living, but suffering from Senile Dementia."
Robinson, Mrs., Case reported by ------- 280
Rolf, the Mannheim dog 123, 127
Romano, Mr., Experiments with, Rsference to 203
S.
Salter, W. H., Appointment as Hon. Secretary ----- 224
„ Review by 184
Salter, Mrs. W. H., Election as a Member of the Council . . - 3
„ Evidence collected by 15, 100-104, 164-166, 187-190, 213-216, 243-
247, 328-329, 350-352
„ Obituary Notices by 242-243
„ Reviews by - '
24, 124
Saltmarsh, H. F., Apparatus contributed by - - - - - 327
Sambor, On the mediumship of 201-203
Sanguineti, Dr., On the medium Erto, Reference to - - - - 278
Scatcherd, Miss F. R., Motion supported by 28, 29
Schermann, Rafael, On the work of ------ - 332
Schiller, Dr. F. C. S.—
Notes on Recent Periodicals - - 42
Report on a Case of apparent Communication through a medium
by a person living, but suffering from Senile Dementia - 87, 128
Reviews 58, 60, 253, 324, 358
" The Half-Belief in ImmortaUty " 322
Schneider, Rudi, Alleged exposure of - - - - - - 256, 286
Schneider, Willi, The mediumship of 64, 148, 153
„ S.P.R. sittings with 31, 352
Schrenck-Notzing, Dr. von, Articles by. References to - 94, 204, 219, 256
„ ,, Investigation of Willi Schneider : Sittings at which
Mr. Dingwall was present - - - - - 31
„ „ On the work of, with physical mediums - - - 64
„ „ Participation in experiment with Ossowiecki - 259-263
Schroder, Dr., On Dr. Albert Moll and his school . - - . 333
Schwab, Dr., Teleplasma und Telekinese, by - . - - - 108
Scientific American, Prize offered by, for psychic phenomena - - 64
,, „ Results obtained by the Commission
220, 303-304, 331-333
Scott, Sydney C-> Assistance given by - 3
„ Election as a Vice-President - 35
xiv Index to Vol. XXI.
Stance Room, Acquisition of 151-152, 228-229, 239
„ Descriptions and Photograph of - - . 151-152, 342
,, Donations to £24 258 290
Sichler, Albert, Z»te Theosophie (Anthroposophie) in Psychologischer
Beurteilimg
ggg
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry
—
A Correction concerning a Case published in Proceedings - -
117
Evidence collected by, in reports on Book-Tests -
29, 50, 270, 322
Hindrances and Complications in Telepathic Communication -
99
Phantasms of the Living, Additional evidence in a case published in 42
Review of A. W. Trethewy's The Controls of Stainton Moses - -
143
Silbert, Frau, Accusation of trickery against - - - .
287-288
Simon, Gustave, Les tables tournantes de Jersey 148
" Sittings in Paris with the medium Guzik," by Sir Oliver Lodge - 258
Skeat, Miss Clara L., Case contributed by 17g
Smith, H. Arthur, Death of - -
35
Smith, Mrs. Travers, Script of, and experiments with - - 33, 359, 360
Society d'Etudes Telepathiques 200-201
Society for Psychical Research-
Accounts—
Endowment Fund 39 233
General Fund 3g £32
Council, Appeal for contributions towards the expenses of removal
and Research, Response to 29-30, 36-37, 48, 99, 110
» » A Further, for the Research Fund - - - 81-82
„ Response to 110, 130, 152, 169-170, 229, 239, 290, 327
and Officers, Elections and Co-optations 3, 26, 27, 66, 98, 225
" » „ Hon. Secretary - - . . 224
- » » „ Research Officer - - - 224
Meetmgs - 2-3, 25-27, 66, 98, 109, 150-151, 186, 222-225,
258, 273-274, 289, 326-327
„ On Mr. S. C. Scott's generosity in regard to the legal
business of the Society 3, 36, 237
Reports 30, 228
Resignations and Deaths .... 258, 285, 306
„ Statement in connexion with the Price-Hope controversy 2, 4-10
Fmancial Statements - - - - 28, 36-37, 38, 82, 225-226, 232
Formation of Groups for discussion 327-328
Legal assistance given by Mr. S. C. Scott - - - -
3, 36, 237
Library on Magic and Witchcraft, Loan of 33-34
Meetings
—
Annual General 27, 225
Conversaziones 29, 228
General -------- 110, 274, 327
Private 3, 98-99, 151, 186-187, 258, 290
Index to Vol. XXI. XV
Society for Psychical Research-
Members and Associates, Honorary, Corresponding and Ordinary,
Elections of - - 2, 25, 26, 27, 66, 98, 109, 150, 186, 222, 224,
258, 273, 289, 326
,, On the assistance given by - - - - - 34, 235-236
Presidency, Elections to 27, 224
On the 45
Private Meetings, Extension of admission to . - . - 35
Removal to Tavistock Square 30
Research Officers, Appointment of 31, 224
Tenant, The Society's 237
Vice-Presidents, Election of 35
Work of the Society, On the . - - 77, 139-143, 184, 290
Some Reminiscences of and Some Lessons from Fifty Years of Psychical
Research, by Sir William Barrett 290
Sorbonne Commission, Report of, on Guzik - - - 240, 254-256
„ EvaC. - - - - 77,122
Spirit-Identity. See The Controls of Stainton Moses.
Spiritism and Common Sense, Review of ------ 44
Stanley, Miss E. Marjorie, and Mrs., Case contributed by - - - 290
Steininger, Fraiilein K. See Megalis.
SteUa C, On the mediumship of 231, 256, 297-299
Stewart, Mrs. Jose, Mediumship of 220, 331-332
Stone-throwing Incidents 286 (footnote)
Stratton, Dr. F. J. M., On M. Warcollier's suggested experiments in
thought-transference 177
Subliminal Consciousness of the lapse of Time - 3, 17-19, 55, 80, 95-96
Sudre, Rene, References to articles by - - 62, 94, 153, 302-303, 333
Suringar, Dr. J. Valckenier, Experiments in thought-transference
147-148, 170-175
Survival, Arguments For and Against ------ 228, 330
" Survival, Metapsychic Science and " 274
Survival, Evidence and references bearing on the question of - 10, 46, 62,
82-92, 104, 118-120, 130-136, 143-145, 153, 154, 264-271, 274-278,
280-284, 322-324, 330-331, 337, 359-360
T.
Tables tournantes de Jersey, Les -------- 148
Tarrant, Mrs. G., Case contributed by - - " " ^7, 128
Tartaruga, Dr. Ubald, Kriminal-Telepathie und Retroskopie, by - - 60
,, Das Hellseh-medium Megalis in Schweden - - - 60, 147
„ Parapsychic Institute 200
,, Aus dem Reiche des Hellsehxounders ----- 324
Taylor, Mrs. E. M., Evidence contributed by 282
Telepathic Communication, Hindrances and Complications in - - 99
Index to Vol. XXI.
Telepathic Experiments, Suggested methods for - - -
125-126, 177, 314
Telepathy
—
An extension of hyperaesthesia 247
Animals, Possible telepathy with 123-124, 127-128
Cases, Spontaneous 50, 164, 170, 176, 187, 213, 290, 293, 319, 328, 349, 350
Experimental - - - 124, 177, 200-201, 217, 234-235, 304, 314
On the need of further experiments - - -
153
Extended, An Instance of 166
References to current literature on
59, 60, 99, 124, 147-148, 203, 204, 304, 324, 333
Tcleplasma und Telekinese, by Dr. F. Schwab, Review of - - -
108
Tennant, Stephen, Case confirmed by 329
The Company of Avalon, hy F. Bligh Bond, Review oi - - - 359
The Qoligher Circle, by E. E. Fournier d'Albe, D.Sc, Review of - -
19
The Rose Miraculous, Review of 350
" Thinking " Animals 122 127-128
Thirty Years of Psychical Research -139
Thoma, Dr. Leopold, Experiments with Megalis in hypnotic clairvoyance 60-61
Thomas, Rev. C. Drayton, On the Price-Hope case
186, 190, 191-194, 226-227
Replies to 194-199, 227-228, 230
Thomas, Ernest S., Case contributed by 296
Thought-transference. See Telepathy.
" Thoughts on Trance Phenomena "
82
Time, Subliminal Consciousness of the lapse of -
3, 17-19, 55, 80, 95-96
Tischner, Dr. Rudolf, Geschichte der Okkultischen Forschung von der
Ayitike his zur Gegenwart, by. Review of - - - -
336
,, References to articles by 94^ 256
Traite de Metapsychique, by Professor Charles Richet - - 201, 203, 204
See also Thirty Years of Psychical Research.
Trance Phenomena—
Correspondence between statements made through two mediums - 104
Personal Identity, Evidence of 130
References to literature on 78-79, 153
Transmission, On the process of - - - - 82-87, 118, 264-269
„ Circumlocutions, difficulty in giving names, hedging,
and other mediumistic disabilities viewed in the
light of Aphasia 264-269
Transmission theory, William James's, Evidence in favour of - - 91
Trethewy, A. W., The Controls of Stainton Moses, by. Review of - - 143
„ Review of J. Arthur Hill's From Agnosticism to Belief 337-338
Troubridge, (Una) Lady, Review of Dr. W. Mackenzie's Metapsychica
Moderna 12Q
Troubridge, (Una) Lady, and Miss Radclyffe-Hall, On Some Evidence of
Personal Identity obtained in recent sittings with Mrs. Leonard - 130
Index to Vol. XXI. xvii
V.
v., Mk., Automatic writing of. See Oscar Wilde communications.
Vett, Carl, Election as Corresponding Member 224
ViUa Carmen, Phenomena of. See Beraud, Marthe.
Vincent, Mrs. Evelyn, Case contributed by 92
Visions of the Dying ---------- 345
VoUhart, Frau Maria, Mediumship of - - - - ' - - 77, 108
W.
Wagner, Adolf, Das Zweckgesetz in der Natur 253
Wales, Hubert, Case contributed by - - - - - - - 166
Warcollier, R., La Telepatkie ------- 124, 177
Watson, Mrs. D. Milne, " On the Appreciation of Time by Somnambules " 95
Watson, Mrs. Lacon, Case contributed by 100
Weiss, Harry. See Houdini {A Magician among the Spirits).
Westcott, Rev. B. F., Cii'cular by, on the Cambridge " Ghost Society " 68-71
Westlake, Ernest, Death of 35, 36
Wietrich, E., Societe d'Etudes Telepathiques ----- 200-201
Wild, Miss Ida, Experiences in Hypnopompic Illusions - - - 75
WUde, Oscar, Communications purporting to come from - - - 203
Wilkie, Mrs. D. M., Case coiatributed by 188
WHkins, Dr. H. J., Criticism of the Psychical Claims concerning Glaston-
bury Abbey, F. Bligh Bond on 248-249
WooUey, Dr. V. J., Appointment as Hon. Research Officer - - - 224
„ On the mediumship of Miss Stella C. 297
Wright, George E., Motion supported by 28-29
Wright, Mrs. Olive S., Mediumship of 230
X.
'
X., Mrs., Evidence concerning, obtained in sittings with Mrs. Leonard 131-136
Y.
' Y.," Mr., The case of 249
Yam, Miss, Reference to the mediumship of - . . - - 267
•
Z.
Z., Senora Maria Reyes de, Psychometric medium - - - 62, 216
Zimmer, Professor, On the himinosity of living organisms - - 148
> S i.
FOR NOTICE OF MEETING SEE FIRST PAGE.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
JOURNAL
OF THE
and Associates only.
NO. CCCXCL—VOL. XXL
JANUARY 1923.
CONTENTS
Notice of Meeting, 1
New Members, 2
Meetings of Council, 2
Private Meetings, 3
Observations on Mr. Price's Sitting with Mr. Hope, 4
Case, 10
Correspondence: I. A Laboratory for Psycliic Research, 16
II. " The Appreciation of Time by Somnambules," - . - 17
Reviews, - - - 19
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, IV.C. i.
All rights reserved.
Robert MacLehose & Co. Ltd., University Press, Glasgow.
NOTICES.
Communications for the Editor to be addressed to—
Mrs. Salter, Society for Psychical Research,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
Members are invited to send contributions as to facts arising within their
own observation or critical discussion of the results already obtained by
the Society.
Subscriptions for 1923.
Subscriptions for 1923 are now due. Members and Associates are
requested to send them to the Treasurer, W. H. Salter, Esq.,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, at their early convenience.
The Subscription of Members is Two Guineas ; that of Associates is
One Guinea.
Cheques may be Crossed "London County Westminster & Parr's
Bank, Hanover Square Branch."
With regard to the Subscriptions of Canadian and American Members,
see Notice on third page of cover.
Information relating to any branch of the Society's work may be sent
to the Honorary Secretaries, or to the Secretary, Society for Psychical
Research, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
Members and Associates are requested to send notice of any change
of name or address to the Secretary, Society for Psychical Research,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
Applications for Membership and tor printed documents should be
addressed to the Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C. 1.
Subscriptions are payable to the Hon. Treasurer, W. H. Salter, Esq.,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1. Article 18 is as follows :
—
"All subscriptions shall become payable upon the election of the Member or
Associate, and subsequently on the 1st day of January in each year ; provided that in
case any Member or Associate is elected on or after the lat day of October, his sub-
scription shall be accepted as for the next following year."
Forms for the regular payment of subscriptions through a banker may
be had on application.
A form of bequest can be had on application to the Secretary, Society
for Psychical Research, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
The Rooms of the Society, at 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, are
open every week-day from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., except on Saturday, when
ttiey close at 1.30 p.m.
NOTICES.
ANNUAL GENEEAL MEETING.
The Annual General Meeting (for Business Purposes only) of the
Members of the Society will be held at 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1,
on Wednesday, January 31st, 1923, at 3.30 p.m.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
Meetings of the Council will be held at 31 Tavistock Square, London,
W.C. 1, on Wednesday, January 31st, 1923, at 2.30 p.m., and immediately
after the Annual Business Meeting.
CONVERSAZIONE.
A Conversazione will be held in the Society's Eooms, 31 Tavistock Squai^e,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, February 7th, 1923, at 4 p.m. Tea will be
provided, and it is hoped that one or two short communications will be read.
NOTICE TO MEMBERS OF THE SOCIETY RESIDING IN
CANADA AND THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
Members and Associates living in America are requested to pay their
subscriptions, as they become due, to the Society's Agent, the F. W. Faxon
Co., 83 Francis Street, Boston, Mass.
The subscription of Members is Ten dollars annually, or a single payment
of One hundred dollars ; the subscription of Associates is Five dollars
annually, or a single payment of Fifty dollars. These subscriptions are due
immediately on election and subsequently on the first day of January in
each year.
Orders for exti'a copies of publications on the special terms allowed
to Members and Associates should also be sent by Canadian and American
Members and Associates to the F. W. Faxon Co., to whom payments for
the same should be made m advance.
Bound in cloth, Demy 8vo, 325 + viii pp., ivith Index, Price 13s. 6d. net, $3.75,
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESSES
TO THE '
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
1882—1911,
BT
HeNBY SiDGWICK, BaLFODB SteWAKT, AKTilOS J. Balfouk,
William James, Sir William Crookes, F. W. H. Myers,
Sib Oliver Lodge, Sib William Barrett, Charles Richet,
Gerald W. Balfour, Mrs. Henrt Siogwick, H. Arthur
Smith, and Andrew Lang.
Members and Associates can obtain copies of the above at the reducrd
price of Is. Qd. net (in America, §2.00), inclusive of postage, on application to the
Secretary, S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1. The application must
be accompanied by a remittance.
TBEE JOURNAL.
The Journal can be obtained, bound in cloth, as under, by Members and
Associates :
—
Vols. I., II. (Nos. 1—35) . . 15s. Od. (14.50) each.
„ III. -XIX. (Nos. 36—370) . . 10s. 6d. ($3.15) ,,
The price of separate numbers is as follows :
—
Nos. 1-35, Is. 2d. (40 cents) each ; Nos. 114, (Nov., 1894), and 118, (Mar. and
April, 1895), Is. 6d. (50 cents) each ; other Nos., 9d. (25 cents) each; double
numbers, Is. 2d. (40 cents).
THE PROCEEDINGS.
The PROCEEDINGS can be obtained, bound in cloth, as under, by Members
and Associates :
—
Vol. I. (Parts I. —IV.) pp. 336
STL 8s. 3d. $ 2.35
II. v.—VII.) . . . 340 7s. Id. „ 2.35
III. VIII.—IX. J
• . . 500 13s. 9d. yy 4.75
IV. X.—XI.) . . . . . 605 6s. 9d. 1.85
V. XII.—XIV.) , . . . 606 8s. 7d. 2.35
VI. XV.—xvii.) . . . . 707- 10s. 7d. 3.25
VII. XVIII.—XX.) 442 7s. Id. 1.85
VIII. XXI.—xxiii.) 647 lis. 9d. ,, 3.35
IX. XXIV.—XXV.) . 407 6s. 9d. 1.85
X. XXVI.) . . 466 6s. 9d. 1.85
XI. XXVII.—XXIX.) . 637 8s. 3d. „ 2.35
9 9
XII. XXX.—XXXI. and Appendix 391 6s. ,, 1.85
XIII. XXXII.—XXXIII.) 654 8s. 7d. ,, 2.65
J >
XIV. XXXIV.—XXXV.) 436 7s. 6d. 2.35
T )
XV. XXXVI.—XL.) 522 9s. 4d. ,, 2.65
J»
XVI. XLI.) 650 9s. 2.65
99
»J
XVII. \ > >
XLIL—XLV.) 468 9s. 7d. 2.75
3 J
XVIII. \ ) >
XLVL—XLIX.) . . . 548 lis. 3d. ,, 3. 15
»> XIX. I J» L.-LII.) . . . . 508 9s. 9d. „ 3.00
»»
XX. \ J
)
LIIL) . . . . , . 444 9s. „ 2.65
JI XXI. \ J
»
LIV.—LVI.) . . . . 584 9s. 9d. ,,2.65
)1 XXII. I »> LVIL) 446 9s. „ 2.65
yy
XXIII. V > >
LVIIL—LIX.) 602 lOs. 6d. ,,3.15
>l
XXIV. \ )»
LX.—LXI.) . 758 lis. 3d. ,,3.15
) 1
XXV. \ ») LXIL—LXIV.) 540 9s. ,,2.65
>>
XXVI. \ ) J
LXV.—LXVII.) . 544 9s. 9d. „ 2.65
»> XXVII. I >» LXVIIL—LXX.) . 562 9s. 9d. „ 2.65
yy
XXVIII. V > >
LXXI.) . . 657 10s. 6d. ,,3.15
y y
XXIX. \ >» LXXn.-LXXIV.). 467 10s. Id. „ 3.00
yy XXX. '
)) LXXV.-LXXVIIL) . 612 10s. 6d. „ 3.15
yy
XXXI. \ 99 LXXIX.—LXXXl.) 417 10s. 6d. ,,3.15
y y
XXXII. \ ) J
LXXXIL—LXXXIV.) . 395 8s. 9d. 2.70
In paper \ )
)
LXXXV.) . . . . 22 2s. ,, .60
Any of the Pakxs can be purchased separately.
Cloth covers for binding Vol. XXXII. of the Proceedings, and Vol. XIX. of
the Journal (as well as earlier Vols.), may be obtained, price Is. 6d. (50c.) each.
Any of the above may be obtained from the Secretary, Societj' for Psychical
Research, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
Note. —Single numbers or volumes will be sent post free.
