{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1william_c_nde.html","mytitle":"William C NDE 8195","mylang":"de"}
          	        William C NDE 8195  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					William C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4280 William C NDE 8195  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 8195  					</p>  					

While in the Intensive Care Unit of the hospital the doctors inserted a feeding tube into my nose while I was intubated.  The nutrients from the feeding tube filled my belly causing my stomach to spasm and all the nutrient went into my lungs because I was intubated.  I felt my lungs fill and my breath shorten. The call-button was just out of reach when I realized I had no control and there was nothing I could do.  I thought of my family and the life I wouldn't lead. My eyes swelled in tears as I took my last breaths. Then everything went black.  

  				  It seemed instantly that I was somewhere else.  It was as though I stepped through a doorway in the back of my mind and into another dimension.  I first noticed the floor or rather the absence of it. There was a thick mist or fog that covered the ground up to my knees. The very next thing that I noticed was the sound of music. It soothed me.  I didn't know the song but it seemed familiar. It was symphonically orchestral and  with brass, strings and woodwinds, but the sound was still subtle.  The sound seemed to be coming from my right. So, I looked in that direction. 
  				  
                    I saw a deep void of darkness, like an astronaut who looked into the stars from orbit.  Then I looked in front of me and saw my deceased grandmother. She was standing just in front of the 'White Light.' The light radiated warmth, light, love and anything I needed to know. I also noticed other figures off to the left of me.  They seemed peaceful in pairs holding each other and swaying with the music.  My grandmother delivered the choice to me. I could stay with her or go back to my life.  She told me that if I stayed, everything would be o.k. She said that if I went back to my body, it would be the most challenging experience I would ever endure.  Then she showed me my grieving family. It was like I was transported to the moment when my loved ones were talking about me. I saw my other grandparent who were still alive. She was driving to the hospital to see me. My Papa was consoling my grandma saying, 'Don't cry, he's going to make it!'  I also saw my best friends driving to see me at the hospital. They were saying how bad it was and how I didn't look like myself. I also saw my mother and aunt in the hospital watching over me. I saw their tears and the uncertainty in there expressions. 

                    The night of the car accident there was a friend of my Aunt whom I had never met. She woke my Aunt up in the middle of the night to say that a young man my Aunt knew was in terrible danger. This friend of my Aunt happened to be a sensitive.  My Aunt called my Mother right afterwards. My Mother had just got off the phone with the sheriff's office. My Mother had seen a vision of her mother and I  laughing and having a good time. This was during the same time as my NDE. I also had a premonition dream three years before the car accident.                        					More Information:  

  					    Dr. Jeff:  I would appreciate any comments that you have to a question of mine.  One of the questions that you responded to, and your response was:
        
    Did you have a sense of knowing special knowledge or purpose?   Yes   I felt as though just seeing the crossroads and standing before the light gave me an experience that not many other people had.  My grandmother conveyed a piece of information regarding everyone, that NDE's and experience like them will become more frequent and people will begin to see the true 'Meaning of life' That is to LOVE give it receive it share it and spread it in any way you feel.      

                                                    That is very interesting that you became aware that NDE’s and experiences like them will become more frequent.  With regard to NDEs, did you have a sense as to whether this meant more people would have life-threatening events resulting in more NDEs occurring, or could this mean there will be about the same number of life-threatening events with more people will having NDE-type experience at the time of the life-threatening event?  Any further comments that you have on this would be appreciated! 

 Thanks again for sharing!

  Best regards,  

       -Jeffrey 

  William:  Thank you Jeffrey, to answer your question. When my grandmother conveyed to me that more people would have experiences that would open their eyes to the dimensions that exist parallel to ours and how strong those dimensions influence ours.  This did not necessarily mean that people would have to suffer physical pain in order to come to that point of understanding.  She inferred that every person would come to that understanding in their own way.  Basically she told me about more of a spiritual awakening a shift in the paradigm of the collective consciousness of our dimension.  I personally believe this is related to the changing of the ages and our solar system's position in our galaxy.

  		            					Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 2002
        
        NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Surgery-related       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)         In June 2002, I was riding in the back seat of a 1986 Nissan Sentra with five other friends driving down an old country road.  We approached an intersection where the road was uneven with a large bump.  We lost control, swerved off road, and hit a telephone pole. I suffered internal bleeding and was rushed to the hospital. Before I could receive medical attention, I was sent home and told I was fine.  After 36 hours I collapsed and died for the first time. It was not until later that I had my NDE.  I was rushed back to the hospital and opened up again. I coded three more times during the surgeries.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I visited my living friends and relatives while they were talking about me. Transporting to them felt instantaneous.            I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   The only way I can find the words is to feel a completeness or feeling whole and one with everything.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Yes! I felt as if I was completely connected to the collective and God.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning              I had no sense of time. When I saw my grandparents in their car driving to the hospital to see me, that was days from the time when my friends were in their car on the way to see me at the hospital. Even though I seemed to experience these two occurrences consecutively with no time in-between.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything seemed very clear as if a veil had been lifted and I could know or express anything instantly with clarity and purity with no miscommunication or misunderstandings.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing seemed the same. The only thing I could hear was the music. All the communication was telepathic. I believe the music may have been telepathic as well.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My Grandmother

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I believe 'The White Light' is our interpretation of God. It was a warm, pure, earnest, compassionate, and unconditional LOVE.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     The floor was covered in a thick fog or mist up to my knees. There was beautiful sounding music coming from my right. I looked to my right, I saw a deep void of darkness. I saw the light in front of me and my grandmother in front of the light. To the left I saw many other shadowy figures that seemed to be holding each other and swayed with the music.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Just before my NDE, I felt fear, anxiety, sadness, hopelessness.  Once I let go, I only felt LOVE and all the good feelings that come with it.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     While in the presence of the light, I could understand everything and I wanted nothing. I didn't really care what the secrets to the universe were or the meaning of life.  The veil of communication was lifted and I was able to see only truth. In life we must decipher the truth from lies. While in the presence of the light I was in the presence of absolute truth.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No                                   

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated.   My family did not regularly attend church although we did respect the 'Golden Rule'.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I love praying and worship although I don't attend any specific religion.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths.   I look at my life completely differently now. I look at religion much differently now as well. To me all religions have many truths and we have all the truth inside us.  We must experience life and love is the most important thing to learn or share or have or give.  Everything else is just cultural, we are products of our environments.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I was a 17-year-old man during this time and honestly, I was not thinking about my spirituality. I thought I was indestructible and immortal.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origi.   I was greeted by my grandmother who died when my mother was young. We communicated telepathically.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Nothing is created or destroyed only transformed.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     While in the presence of the light I understood that all life is eternal because we are all connected. We are a collective consciousness. We merely transform into another dimension. This life is all about love because once we are in the presence of God. Love is the only emotion. Love is God's chosen emotion. Love is really greater than an emotion but for the purpose and confines of language I will refer to love as an emotion.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     While in the presence of the light, I understood that all life is eternal because we are all connected. We are a collective consciousness. We merely transform into another dimension. This life is all about love because once we are in the presence of God, love is the only emotion. Love is God's chosen emotion. Love is really greater than an emotion but for the purpose and confines of language I will refer to love as an emotion.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists                          

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt as though just seeing the crossroads and standing before the light gave me an experience that not many other people had.  My grandmother conveyed a piece of information regarding everyone, that NDEs and experience like them will become more frequent and people will begin to see the true 'meaning of life' That is to LOVE - give it, receive it, share it and spread it in any way you feel.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     While in the presence of the light I understood that all life is eternal because we are all connected. We are a collective consciousness. We merely transform into another dimension. This life is all about love because once we are in the presence of god love is the only emotion. Love is God's chosen emotion. Love is really greater than an emotion but for the purpose and confines of language I will refer to love as an emotion.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     While in the presence of the light I understood that all life is eternal because we are all connected. We are a collective consciousness. We merely transform into another dimension. This life is all about love because once we are in the presence of god love is the only emotion. Love is God's chosen emotion. Love is really greater than an emotion but for the purpose and confines of language I will refer to love as an emotion.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     This question goes beyond the comprehension of our minds. While in the presence of the light everything made sense.  I feel that our suffering is the greatest of all blessings.  We learn the most from that which nearly kills us.  Each persons hardships are directly related to the lesson that person must learn. It is our choice whether we accept the challenge or not.  Regardless of what path I choose, it seems as though I'm destined to learn these lessons. I might choose the time place or even circumstances, yet the lessons still remain the same. Those lessons come differently for everyone.  I feel the lessons are about LOVE, such as how to give, receive, share, spread the love.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is God's chosen emotion. Really, love is more than just emotions. It is impossible for me to describe anymore because God's love is indescribable.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life.     I mostly changed how I viewed and perceived my existence.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel closer to many people that were around me during that time.                          

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   the immense and earnest feeling of love and warmth from the light (God) is completely indescribable.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I will always remember this as long as I can remember.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There is another related occurrence.  When I was fourteen, three years before the accident, I had a premonition dream.  In the dream, I saw myself in the the car. There were many different details that were identical to my experience; such as,  I was sitting in the car and the girl that was on my lap. Most importantly, I remember specifically in the dream the girl driving took her hands off the wheel for a moment and screamed just before impact. 

                          All of this was shown to me at the end of a different dream that holds incredible significance to me.  The dream that precluded my premonition began in an old gothic cathedral. It was a dark dream. I was standing with my back to the doors, looking into the church.  No one was at the altar and all the people looked sick.  I remember the stained-wood pews and cobblestone floor. There was a dankness about the room. I had a package to deliver that seemed to be my mission or purpose. As I started towards the front to deliver the package in my hands (about the size of a shoe box), all the people in the seats began to stand up in front of me.  Next thing I realized, there was a whole line of people in front of me.  At first the person asked me questions. 

                          I don't remember exactly, but rather than answering the questions, I closed my eyes. When I looked at the people with my eyes closed, my minds eye saw what they really were. At first, it looked like a small gremlin. So I opened my eyes and moved past them.  I continued like this and the creatures or monsters got bigger as I kept going up the line.  I did not let this slow me down until the last person. He was a sick old man. When I closed my eyes, I saw a huge beast with intermingled snarling and razor-sharp teeth. He had horns busting through the skin of the shoulders. The  head was sharp and twisted like  overgrown thorns. The  bright, blood-red eyes connected with me. Before I could open my eyes from the dream, I was in the back seat of the car a moment before impact.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I immediately shared the story once I woke up after making my decision to live.  My mother changed career paths after the accident, from insurance into nursing. I also found a career in the medical field.  My brothers, sister and friends all seemed to have some change.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I felt like I had been given a second chance. I felt like I had a special experience and it was important that I share it as much as possible.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     I still feel the same.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   The closest thing to my NDE is large amounts of DMT or Ayahuasca.  Those chemicals help bring me to a certain point. Although, I feel that during my experience I was taken beyond the point that any chemical could bring the human mind.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       During my stay in the intensive care unit, the doctors induced coma. After 24 hours, three of my family members and a friend of the family who was an 'energy worker' and reiki master performed a reiki healing session.  I remember seeing their faces and many beautiful colors and lights around them. I was filled with love and joy. We seemed to communicate telepathically. For a moment they said that I woke up, so they took a picture.                                                                                                                              				                      


                    Experience Description 5166  					</p>  					This is what led to my NDE. I was in my teens. I was out with friends, and some of them had been drinking. I had a real bad feeling about what was coming. We were trespassing at some abandoned mines, and we were drinking, even though we were underage. On the way home, we went over a large bump on a country road, and the driver lost control. The car spinning out of control caused everyone in the back seat except for me to fly out of the car. I was held in by my lap restraint. (I believe this is what initially tore my small intestine.) I was taken by helicopter to a local hospital where the doctor said everything was fine. I stayed there a few hours and then was sent home. 

I slept for sixteen hours but when I tried to get up, I collapsed because renal failure had set in. I soon lost consciousness and was readmitted with septic shock to a different hospital. After a couple weeks of intensive care, I started to get better. Still, in the intensive care unit, I had an experience while they were attempting to administer a nutritional supplement through an NG tube. (This tube goes down through the nose and into the stomach. It's to help feed someone when they have a vent life support system going down the throat into the airways and lungs. I seemed to have an aversion to this tube. I had been restrained previously for pulling it out. Doing this can cause serious injury.) While receiving the nutrient, my body tried to purge it out. This resulted in my lungs filling up with the nutrient though the air vent, and I started suffocating.

I remember how it felt to die. My breaths got shorter and my eyes watered so everything became blurry. I thought to myself, 'This is it, and that's okay.' As I had that thought, everything went black. When I opened my eyes, I saw an undefined floor that looked like fog; and I heard soft soothing music. When I focused my eyes, I saw the light in front of me illuminating everything around me. There were figures to the right of me that looked like they were moving to the music. In the foreground stood a woman, my grandmother! She was beautiful. I had never met her. She had died of ovarian cancer when my mother was only a girl. First, she told me that I was welcome and I could stay. Then she let me know that although the damage to my body was great, if I wanted to go back I could. She told me that it would be very difficult for me, but in the end, I would grow a great deal from this.  She told me that those close to me would be changed by this, too. Then she showed me what my family and friends were going through now. First, I saw, some of my close friends in a car talking about the car accident. Then I saw my grandparents talking about it, too.

So these were my near death experiences. The most bizarre part of this was the premonition dream I had had four years prior to the crash. This dream starts with me in a dark cathedral with old wooden pews and cobblestone floors. I notice that occupants of this church are very sick and pale. I proceed down the aisle with a shoebox-size package. The people in the pews start standing in front of me. As I approach them, I close my eyes and I see who they really are. At first what I see are images of small gargoyles. They get progressively larger and more frightening until I make it through the crowd and see that the last person is a sick old man. I close my eyes and then see a large snarling beast with red eyes, and horns coming from his shoulders. His mouth has sharp, crooked, intermingled teeth. He reaches inside me and pulls out my fear. I open my eyes and then I am in the car and the girl is on my lap. The driver is screaming and her hands have been forced off the steering wheel as we spin out of control and leave the pavement. This was like a snapshot taken of the night of the car accident - and it was shown to me in that dream four years before it actually happened. During the accident, I flashed back to the scene in that dream - I was in the old cathedral again, and there was an orb of light at the altar, illuminating the entire room.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 23 2002

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentSurgery-related    Other multiple clinical deaths over a period of two weeks  I was a passenger in a drunk driving accident. We hit a telephone pole. The accident left me with severe internal injuries that were not properly diagnosed upon admission to the first hospital. The injuries were left untreated and this caused severe internal infection.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was at my highest level of consciousness at random times. I remember that I experienced certain events quite vividly and that at other times, I was sedated.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision changed throughout the experience. Some parts were in vivid color and detail and some were without much.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I think when you're dead these vibrations are felt like a sixth sense. When two people communicate, it is pure, without speech. Thoughts just flow from one and into the other.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandmother, who died before I was born, greeted me with a choice to stay or go. She let me know that no matter what decision I made, I would always have a place there.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was warm, and I felt like I was a part of the light and it, a part of me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     undesrcibable

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calmness and serenity, peace and love - love in its purest form, like a light.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   spiritual

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What is your religion now?       Liberal   spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   It seemed like a long time, but I was only gone for a couple of minutes.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There was a pure communication that did not required words. I felt it as a sort of extra sense.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that I had a dream premonition about the car crash and that it was intertwined with another dream which had religious features.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Not long after I had been off the vent for a couple of weeks I told others about my experiences. Hearing about my experiences has changed everyone around me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1william_c_nde.html