{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wesley_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Wesley W NDE 3483","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wesley W NDE 3483  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wesley W NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1544 Wesley W NDE 3483  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a truck driver for 'Road Runner Trucking' in 1991, and in my third year, and a rookie at flatbed driving. I started my run in Hondo Mississippi, with a load of aluminum framing going to a small town in Southern Nebraska. It was what they call a shutdown load. Meaning if you don't get there on time it will shut down the factory. So I ran non-stop to the destination.

Trip started out strange, I stopped in west Memphis to shower and change. I was fuelling up with 150 gallons of diesel in the rain. Two islands away, lightning struck the pump and the transformer starting a fire and scaring the shit out me. Then when I was in Springfield, Missouri, I fueled up and left five minutes before a tornado hit the truck stop. I kept on running, to Kansas City, Kansas stopped for coffee. By this time, I was exhausted but I keep running. I reached Beloit, Kansas (a bump in the road) at 8:00 am and keep running, even though I was having a hard time keeping a wake.

I remember reaching over and turning over a tape of Dwight Yokem. That's when it happened. I fell asleep with my eyes open. I must have driven five miles like that. I missed the road construction signs and wrecked the truck. I will leave those details out for they are not important.

The next thing I know I was somewhere else (but still the same place). This place existed outside of time and our reality. Yet I was still in the truck. I heard someone speak to me. He/they told me not to be afraid. I was not frightened. I felt whole for the first time that I was allowed to remember. He/they showed me the next crossing, but I really should stay 'here' and not to go on any farther. They/he asked me if I remembered the strange epileptic-like fevers that I had when I was a child. I did. They showed me that they were there then and when I had the bike wreck when I was only five years old. They showed me again. There they/he were. They showed me that He/they were at the birth of my first son. They showed me some other stuff but I was not allowed to remember. Then He/they told me that I was not done yet. He/they brought my attention to the body on the floor of the truck.

I remember asking them who he was? All they would say is that I'd better wake him up or he will die in the fire! So I went to shake his arm to wake him when I realized that it was me on the floor of the burning truck! He/they told me that the only way out was through the fire and that it would be okay. Then I was back in my own body coughing and choking on the black smoke. The rest is history. I did receive third and fourth degree burns over thirty percent of my upper body, but that's okay now.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  07/25/91

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury    Other 'I do not know if there was clinical death or not, there was no one to take my pulse during the event.'  The vehicle was on fire and the fuel tank was about to explode! I was unconscious with a severe head injury.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The entire time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time did not have an effect on this place.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I'm uncertain but I could see more than 3D.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I was unable to hear anything from the physical world. But the being that was speaking was speaking to my mind directly.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There was someone else there. He/they were speaking to me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   A barrier: something between here and there, I'm not sure what it was and where it was.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     We did not persay go any where, but we were outside of time and dimension. not serton unshure?

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt good and absolutely no sadness anywhere.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     He/they, reviewed something but I was not allowed to see.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     See question 23.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     There were two boundaries, one between the here and now and one between there and forever.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   generic.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     A sudden realization that there are many paths to richness and that acceptance is the key to peace.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'very spiritual. but I call myself religions non-conformist, ie: I refuse to conform to any religious organization, for they all preach hate!'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     A sudden realization that there are many paths to richness and that acceptance is the key to peace.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I had a feeling of knowing, but not allowed to remember.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have a greater tolerance and acceptance of others that I meet. And I pity those who can't see beyond their religious bigotry.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   That's the whole point, it was hard to explain, and so I can't very well explain it! If I knew how to put it into words, I would.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was all meaningful and significant!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was six days after the accident in the burn unit of St. Frances regional hospital in Wichita, Kansas and with a catholic priest. He ridiculed me and called it the work of the devil, and that I should renounce Satan and ask God for forgiveness. WHAT A PILE OF CRAP!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Just what I heard in the news, stories and such.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     At first I felt it was meant for someone else. Someone with more authority and knowledge of what I was supposed to do?

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Now that I have had a few years to dwell on it, it was a lesson in humility, grace, and charity. A moment of clarity, and purity of soul. A divine intervention and redirection. A lesson in cause and effect, that every action affects everything else, and the connectivity of everything.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Some of your questions are incomplete, vague, and need more options.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wesley_w_nde.html