{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wendy_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Wendy S NDE 7547","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wendy S NDE 7547  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wendy S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3871 Wendy S NDE 7547  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Feb 13th 2013. I spent the day at work during a large snow storm. I carry the auto immune disease Henoch-Shonliein purpura, very rare. [Editor’s Notation: An inflammatory disease of the small blood vessels.] I was currently taking medication for this.  I left work around 4 pm. My legs and hands were swollen. I left work early because I did not feel well. I took a shower.  When I got out, I called for my husband to let him know I didn't feel well. I fainted just after that. 

I instantly went to a place that was pure white light and beautiful. I had a conversation with my deceased parents. My Father died December 17, 2007, and my Mother died on my Father's birthday, December 31, 2010. The love that was felt really isn't like what we experience alive. It encompasses everything around you. There are no earthly words to describe it. I told my parents that I loved them and they reciprocated. I was present with them but could hear my husband and son in the background, like they were the dream. I struggled with wanting to stay there or come back to earth. It was an incredible place. I told my parents I could not stay, that my son needed a Mother. We told one another that we loved one another. 

I awoke to the emergency medical technicians and ambulance at my feet. The emergency medical technician was calling in my blood pressure to the emergency room and it was 60/40 when it should be 120/80. I do believe I died that night and came back. I cannot wait to return!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Feb 13 2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Illness. Drug or medication overdose.    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  While with my parents, they were the present and I could hear my husband and son in the background, as if they were a dream. The facts have been checked out.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was at the highest level of consciousness when I had to make the decision to stay with my parents or come back to my family.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My everyday vision is full of colors and heaviness. During the experience my parents were colorful but everything that surrounded us was a white light.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was the same. Though while with my parents, they were the present and I could hear my husband and son in the background, as if they were a dream.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My parents. See my explanation.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Everything that surrounded my parents and I was bathed in pure white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt love, joy, peace, sadness, and confusion. It enveloped every sense of my being.  Love, joy, peace to be within the presence of my parents and all that surrounded us. Sadness, knowing I had to leave them. Confusion when I had to make the decision to stay or come back.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Everything was encased in love, peace and joy.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That I needed to return for my son.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I was certain that I needed to return to be a Mother to my son who was adopted in 2008.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is a word we use on earth. The "love" during the experience cannot be explained with earthly words.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life. I've chosen to travel to more locations. I take time for myself.     Slight changes in my life. I've chosen to travel to more locations. I take time for myself.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The experience itself was not difficult to explain. I actually wanted to tell anyone and everyone that would listen. However, explaining what it was like, where my parents were, was difficult. There are no earthly words to explain the love, joy and peace that envelop you.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately. More believed than did not.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Source: Curiosity, reading. I don't believe that it affected my experience.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It's been a few years and I can remember the experience like it was yesterday.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wendy_s_nde.html