{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1weston_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Weston G NDE 3266","mylang":"de"}
          	        Weston G NDE 3266  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Weston G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1192  Weston G NDE  3266  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Late spring thaw caused Elkhorn River to overflow its banks. I went down the river in a row boat with a friend and his two older brothers. We wore no life vests. River current forced boat into a tree limb. Limb threw me to the rear of boat. The boat then tipped and took on water. I panicked and jumped away from the sinking boat. Not knowing how to swim, I went under water and submerged three times. I stayed under for approximately twelve minutes. While under I, at first, saw many dazzling colors. I also remember seeing angels and darkness. The darkness was very scary and it seemed as though it lasted forever. Then I was in a dark tunnel, and I began to see a dim light at the end of the tunnel. As I traveled closer to the light, it became brighter end brighter. Finally, the light became the most brilliant white one could ever imagine. The white then began to take the form of Jesus. I don't remember if words were exchanged, but I did get the urge to stay with him. I wanted to stay. But he sent me back, and the next thing I knew my head was bouncing off a tree limb, which was part of a downed yet stable tree in the water. A hand then came down under the water and took my submerged arm lifting me up from the river and placing me on top of the tree trunk. I was saved.  Before this experience, I had never before been inside a church. I only knew Jesus through pictures - I was saved by my friend's big brother.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    'JUNE, 1962'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death .


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I'd like to say at the time of the light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I'd like to say at the time of the light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    It's hard to see under water. But, I learned that certain senses can be visual aids.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     The tunnel was square and very dark.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Dim to bright to fantastic white.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Fear, terror, calmness, peace, wanting.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Uncertain     I believed in God before the experience, and I now believe in God. I now attend church on a regular basis, but I don't attend just because of my experience.

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     I believed in God before the experience, and I now believe in God. I now attend church on a regular basis, but I don't attend just because of my experience.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It happened so long ago. I'd like to remember more of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The spiritual meeting with Jesus. It was as if I was facing the greatest being in the entire universe.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Approximately twenty years. Experience shared with my wife. I don't think she believes me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     The reality of the experience is that it happened, and I'm glad it happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Nothing has changed.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1weston_g_nde.html