{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wenyu_lee_nde.html","mytitle":"Wen-Yu Lee 16123","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wen-Yu Lee 16123  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wen-Yu Lee  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4998 Wen-Yu Lee 16123  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    Wen-Yu Lee, NDE due to car accident (Zhi Hu forum on 7-23-21)  

  Where is this place?  

  I felt overwhelmed in this gray, misty world.  

  The scenery in front of me looked like an abstract oil painting, all in a mess.  

  Vaguely, I heard a feeble voice.  

  "This was a hospital! I had died!"  

  First, I was astounded then later I laughed and teased myself. Although it seemed to be I was faceless.  

  In my deepest reflection, it was a bright car headlight and a loud, deafened honking noise.  

  I could not help looking down on myself.  

  Too bad! I saw nothing, or in other words I had no flesh.  

  Is this soul?  

  In a split second, many thoughts ran past me such as the 18-layer hell, the ox-headed and horse-headed grim reapers, and the judge official of hell.  

  Had not had a chance to look around, suddenly far ahead there was an opening in the sky.  

  Its multiple colors looked like it had a spill of the mixed colors oil paints in this grayish surrendering, however it felt vividly alive.   

  Right after that there was a strong, forceful sucking sensation.  

  The colorful cave pulsated a powerful attraction.  

  Not thinking too much on my mind, It started like a mite remover running at full speed, then a “swish”, I was hopelessly taken by a force into the cave.  

  This peculiar cave is filled with mystery.  

  No words that I could describe it.   

  My mind was fogged until a “thud”  

  The familiar pains woke me up.  

  I got up quickly and looked around.  

  The sky was still overcast and the ground was gloomy.  

  However, it was not abstract anymore.  

  This world seemed like it was photographed by a black and white camera.   

  There was a pitch-black sun up in the sky.  

  Unearthly weird, however it emitted dim light.  

  It brightened this grayish world.  

  There are tons of dots packed closely, it turned out to be they are all several meters wide puddles.  

  I felt bewildered and then I turned around.  

  Occasionally, I would see a shadow figure falling down from the sky far away.   

  A  “thump”, it fell into the puddles then disappeared.  

  I reached down to take a look.  

  It was the grayish ground.  

  The puddles were less than several meters apart.  

  What I saw was a dark, deep abyss.  

  I had no intention to know what would happen if someone fell into it.  

  Luckily, I walked around the puddles and headed towards the dark sun in the sky.  

  No sounds  

  No colors  

  No anyone   

  I did not know how long this had been..  

    Then I saw a hut in a distance.  

  A withered yellow wooden small house.  

  I kneeled down and cried because other than the dark-gray color I had not seen anything else besides this shack.  

  Suddenly, I could not remember who I was while I was crying.  

  Well then, why I was crying though？  

  I stood up in confusion. I walked toward the wooden cabin like a zombie, as I remember I knocked on the door.  

  “Da, Da”  

  “Squeaking”  

  A skinny old man opened the door.  

  He has a wrinkled face and a pointy nose.  

  Unlike other elderly whose eyes are turbid, he has a pair of big bright eyes. He was surprised to see me.  

   “Aren't falling into the puddles yet? Come in.”  

  He talked in a hoarse voice but spoke perfect Mandarin.  

  “Who am I?”  

  I stood still, asked this question.  

   “Alas, chaos”  

  Old man shook his head, then he held onto my hands and took me into the house.  

  As I walked into it, “boom” all the strange messages squeezed into my head.  

  I remembered, I remembered everything now,  

  “Where am I?”  

  I was so excited to ask him.  

  ”This is the place of reincarnation. The beginning and the end of wisdom.”  

  The old man replied.  

  ”What about those puddles?”  

  ”They are places of rebirth, once you enter it you would be disassembled to basic particles then recombined with other particles that had been taken apart to mold into a new soul.”  

  The old man sensed my suspicion, he continued and said, ”Some of them are lucky enough to fall into the ground, but sooner or later they will be dissipated.”  

  Decomposition, synthesis? Are these made up of souls?  

  “Will I die?”  

  I asked   

  “You have died already.”  

  The old man sneered.  

  “Died?”  

  Yep! I died on impact by a 16-wheeled truck. I had died then.  

  “Is there an afterlife?”  

  I asked again.  

  “No, it will be a brand new soul in the next life, but that has nothing to do with you.”  

  The old man answered in a world-crudest, indifferent way.  

  “...”  

  “So then who are you?”  

  Since this place is for incarnation, then who is this old man? I urgently questioned him.  

  “As for me, I am a tomb keeper.”  

  The elder smiled splendidly and said:  

  “Since the day when wisdom was born, from ancient to nowadays, many have died.”  

  “For me, I am their tomb keeper and also I am yours as well.”  

  “Everything on earth will fade away as time goes by. The deceased will be remembered for a while, but eventually all things will be buried after a thousand million years. No one will ever remember anything.”   

  “The job of the tomb keeper is to remember every human being." He pointed to his head. And he said, “I remember the very first soul was born to the one at the very moment now. I remember every one of them.”  

  “Forever, because I am the tomb keeper for all human beings."       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wenyu_lee_nde.html