{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wayne_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Wayne W NDE 688","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wayne W NDE 688  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wayne W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						222  Wayne W NDE  688  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was a young, 'tough guy' years ago. Another life, it seems. I was in Northern Ontario, looking for work in the mines when I happened to get into a scuffle with another young tough guy. I fell and hit my head (the temple) on the corner of a metal waste container on my way to the floor. I was on my hands and knees, looking at the blood streaming from my skull into a pool on the tiles.


I looked up and saw that I was no longer in the room I had been in.  I was outside in a beautiful setting; rolling hills, trees, birds singing in the sky. I was surrounded by a large group of beings. They were in a circle around me, observing me as I kneeled before them.


There appeared to be order to their positions. The younger looking ones were in the front, closest to me. The older behind, peering over the heads and shoulders of the ones in front of them. All of them wore white robes and were hairless. (Bald.) They were communicating with each other with their minds and I could 'hear' their thoughts in my mind, very, very clearly. The younger ones were asking of the older ones, 'Is he ready? Is he Coming? Should we help him? Is he ready? Is he Coming? Should we help him?' The older ones simply stated, 'Wait, be patient, wait.'


(Keep in mind; at this time in my life, I was not spiritually involved or religious in any way. I was a tough guy and I felt - and was proud - that I walked alone.) I shook my head and found myself back in the room, bleeding profusely from the cut. My opponent helped me to my feet and took me to be stitched up.


This vision was a profound and powerful event in my life, as you can imagine. It was some time ago (over thirty years) and there was not much talk those days about near death experiences, so I kept quiet about it, pondered it, absorbed it, and eventually found myself renewed by it. (I was not on drugs, either, so it was not a drug-induced hallucination.) This event occurred. It was real and I have no doubt of it's authenticity. I have been given a gift in this seeing and can tell you all with complete confidence: You are not alone - EVER! And, there IS NO DEATH! Rejoice, be well, love!

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    January 1974

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?        Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Lucid

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   timelessness

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Mentally, yes, audibly, no.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     see account above

The experience included:      Light

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     there is no death

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     Possibly an increased sensitivity to the feeling/thought process of others.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wayne_w_nde.html