{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wendi_nde.html","mytitle":"Wendi NDE 124","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wendi NDE 124  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wendi NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1461 Wendi NDE 124  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After leaving my body I was pulled into a void or darkness. In the distance, I saw a white ball of light come close and closer to me. I couldn't really make out what it was until I got closer. I could tell it was a human form. Finally, I realized who it was. It was a deceased friend of mine who had committed suicide the previous year. I was very close to this person in life, we went to High School together and he was a support to me in life as well as in death. He told me that I needed to return there was a strong sense of needing to return. When I asked why he told me my life had a meaning and a purpose. It wasn't my time yet. I did return.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 30, 1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death   I had a heart attack due to an untreated heart condition known as Wolfe Parkinson White Syndrome.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I don't remember.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was very alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was clinically dead for about ten minutes but to me it seemed like time didn't really matter.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See main narrative.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Utter Joy and Happiness, Indescribable Peace and calmness and love.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was told by my friend that I needed to return. I felt a sadness come over me I didn't want to go back. I felt that I had no choice but to return.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Born again Christian

What is your religion now?       Moderate   non denominational

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I realized that life is too short to worry about things, to love humanity, I have more compassion now, I don't feel afraid of death. Life is a precious gift. The individual I was before the experience is gone.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The emotions at the time of the experience is very hard for me to describe the feelings of indescribable peace. A wonderful Joy and happiness. No fear. The beauty of the experience is indescribable!

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best was the emotional part and seeing my friend again. The worst was the physical part of dying. It was extremely painful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared this experience with my friend's mother and she was touched, almost jealous, that I had this encounter with her son. She wanted to know what he said. He had mentioned her to me briefly. I wasn't to tell her of my experience until the right time. She hadn't dealt with his death fully and was still grieving. She told me that she was still grieving over his loss. We have a special bond now.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wendi_nde.html