{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V24 1927-28","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v24_1927-28.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V24 1927-28","mylang":"de"}
JOURNAL
OF THE
iety for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXIV
1927—1928
For Private Circulation among Me?nbers
and Associates only
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, IV.C.i.
All rights rescrzied
i
Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2015
https://archive.org/details/journalofsociety24soci
No. 431.—Vol. XXIV. ' " '
January, 1927.
jbuRNAt;
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
CASES.
I.
L. 1276. Two Telepathic Impressions.
We jjrint below wliat appear to be two instances of tele-
pathic impressions passing between Miss Ida Wild and her
sister. Miss Ida Wild is an Associate of the Society, and an
earlier instance of telepathy between her sister and herself
(in the form of a dream) was printed in the Journal for October
1925 (Vol. XXII. p. 120 ff). At the time when the experiences
described below occurred Miss Ida Wild was in Devonshire
and her sister was in London.
On July 30th, 1926, Miss Ida Wild wrote to the Editor, Mrs.
Salter, as follows :
Old Larkshayes,
Dalwood, Kilmington,
S. Devon.
Here are two instances of telepathy (?) between my sister Ann
Wild, and myself, both within a few days, one from her to me,
one from me to her.
It may seem odd that as I was so worried 1 waited till Thurs-
day to telegraph. We live, however, three and a half miles from
the nearest office, and on Wednesdays from half time, five miles
is our nearest, and I have a very busy life of routine. . . .
Ida Wild.
Enclosed with this letter was the following statement
:
I. The Elm-Tree. (From I. W. to A. W.)
While A. was home, we decided the elms must come down
before Winter. Trim told us we had better wait for Fall. That
/
2 Journal oj Society for Psychical Research January, 1927
is the last A. heard ori th". subjfict, She went away in June.
On July 21st, the goats broke down the hurdling under the elms,
and there was a regular hunt to get them down to the paddock.
At once, I told Trim that we must have proper fixed fencing by
the coach-house in place of hurdling. On July 23rd, the men
got driven by bees, and after dinner brought out the tools for
throwing the trees, Trim saying that it was a pity to start fixed
fencing now and then have to destroy it with tree-throwing in
Fall. Thus the idea of tree-felling was not earlier than 21st,
when I told T. of the fence. The danger was, the elm might
fall in the lane and over neighbouring orchard-land, so they
lopped and nicked to turn it clear N. down our orchard. I
do not believe it could have fallen E. over coach-house. As
it was, they were not quite ready for it to part when it gave a
great circular twitch, and fell W. into the garden, and over
orchard gate. They were hours clearing it, and the '
race-
course '
fence is only just (29th) repaired.
(See A. W.'s letter date, 29-7-26. Also I. W.'s diary, 23-7-26.)
With the above statement was enclosed a letter from Miss
Ann Wild to her sister, from which we quote the following
extract
:
29 Palace Gate, W. 8,
29-7-26.
... I am simply kicking myself about the elm tree because on
Thursday or Friday, [July 22 or 23] I dreamt that it fell, but over
the tin-tab and broke it. I ought to have written at once or
told my dream. No evidence now.
Ann.
Although this case lacks corroboration, we print it here
because we have other better attested instances of telepathy
between Miss Ida Wild and her sister. With her letter of
July 30th, 1926, Miss Ida Wild enclosed a further statement
as follows :
II. Telegram to Ann. (From A. W. to I. W.)
On Tuesday, 27th, I had a strong feeling of '
woe '
and unease,
what you call '
presentiment.' It was with me at rising, and
increased aU day, in spite of a strenuous day. I tried through
1 = tin-tab [see below].
January, 1927 Cases 3
my diet of the last few days for a reason, but couldn't find one !
During tlie afternoon and evening, I was almost '
fit to be tied
"
when I beard motor-bicycles, thinking I should get a telegram to
say A. was dead or dying or mutilated. I hadn't any reason
for believing her ill ;
though she is never extra robust, she is
generally fairly fit. On Wednesday I was busy plucking fowls,
etc., and sat in a linhay where I could see the road, and the
sound of a bicycle (motor) made me nearly ill. I may say, I
was absolutely sure I should have had a card or note a.m. Wednes-
day, but none came. Thursday I went to Axminster early, and
talked to the man who drives me about my anxiety ; he was
airy about it, and said " No news, good news,"' and tried to per-
suade me I was nervous, quite unlike me, as he admitted. I
sent a wire (I had of course again had no letter a.m.) to Ann,
" Please don't be annoyed at this telegram, but are you quite
all right ?
" Her answer never arrived at O.L. tiU nearly 5 p.m.
(See A. W.'s note 29-7-26, also my diary, 27th July.)
The letter from Miss Ann Wild to her sister referred to
above was as follows :
29 Palace Gate, W. 8.
29-7-26.
. . . Your telegram came about 12 and the reply I sent was
retiirned to me an hour later for a fuller address, which delay I
regret.
In case it was a dream that prompted it and you thought I
was ill, I am as fit as a fiddle now. But on Tuesday my tummy
went wrong and during the night I felt awful bad and thought
" Now I've got appendicitis right enough." In case you didn't
have a dream but I neglected to write, it was the rottenness
of my innards on Tuesday that kept me lazy. . . .
Ann.
Miss Ida Wild also sent us some pages from her diary, from
which we quote the following extracts :
July 23rcZ, Friday.
... In morning T. and S. got stung while I was out. So later
they threw one of the two elms by coach-house, and it proved
rotten, so that instead of falling as they nicked it, it crashed
i Journal of Society for Psychical Research January, 1927
through our new race-course fencing all over the garden ! Great
meal for goats !
July 21th, Tuesday.
. . . Much worried about A. W. I Absit omen.
II.
L. 1277. Book-Tests.
A NUMBER of book-tests obtained at Mr. living's sittings have
already been published in Proceedings (see '
A Report on Some
Recent Sittings with Mrs. Leonard," by Mrs. W. H. Salter^
Vol. XXXVI. pp. 207-263). In particular attention may be
called to the incidents related on pp. 239-251, for the book-
tests and other veridical statements there discussed are con-
cerned with the same house and room, though not the same
bookshelves, as the book-test now to be reported. On each
occasion the statements made at the sitting seem to have been,
unusually accurate,^ suggesting that in some way a good
" rapport " had been set up. Mr. and Mrs. Y., from whose
house the tests were taken, have never sat with Mrs. Leonard
and had no personal acquaintance with her. Concerning his.
acquaintance with Mr. and Mrs. Y., Mr. Irving wrote (op. cit^
p. 245) :
" Mr. Y. is the son of some old friends of mine who live in a
parish in which I used to be interested. Mr. Y. is now married
and lives in town. In recent years I had met him but seldom,
and at the time of the sitting [September 23, 1924] knew nothing
of his business or occupation. I had visited his house for the
first time and dined with him and his wife on the Sunday imme^
diately before the sitting, and after dinner we had talked on
psychical matters. I told him some of my experiences in research,
and said that it would be interesting if my communicator would
give me a book-test, or other tests, from his house. My wife had
known him in life fairly well."
The name and address of Mr. and Mrs. Y. are known to-
the Society, but are not given here. '
.
.
1 See communicator's statement at the- sitting, p. 7 below.
Januaet, 1927 Cases 5
Tests were also obtained from Mr. Y.'s house at a sitting on
September 21, 1925. These have not been pubUshed. Mr.
Irving says of them :
" Taken as a whole I think they are
a good series, but not quite so good as the other two. The
last book-tests are marred by an obvious mistake." Mrs. Salter
has seen the record of this sitting and agrees with Mr. Irving's
verdict.
Extract frotn. a Sittin/j with Mrs. Leonard, Tuesday, January 26, 1926.
Sitter : Rev. W. S. Irving. Recorder : Mrs. Dingwall.
Feda. Now, Mr. Bill, she's [the communicator, Mrs. Irving] got
some more book-tests.
W. S. L Good.
F. Wait a minute. The next one isn't Mrs. Twonnie's, and
it's not your home, but it's a house you've been to
before—not at home, Mr. Bill, here. She's given other
book-tests from the same place, Mr. Bill, but it's not
where Mr. George was [the Rooms of the London
Spiritualist Alliance], nor the Psychical 'Searchers, or
any of those places. It's a private place you've been
in before, and she's been interested in, and she's had
some quite good book-tests from. Wait a bit, Mr. Bill,
she's building up a big letter B while she's talking of
this. And she's talking of a house in London, not
quite right in London, she says, just outside. It's not
quite in London. She keep on saying, " Just outside."
Near to London, but sufficiently outside to have some
gardens and trees round about and near it. Wait a
minute. She's showing me a room again. I know she's
took me to this room before : not a very large room,
but a comfortable room. It's got a kind feeling, like
a nice—you know, like a room that's like a nice, fat,
kind aunt,
W- S. L Aunt ?
I"- Yes. Well, Dora [the communicator] says, " It's got a
lived-in feeling, a homely feeling." Yes, aunties what
is fat is homely ! And, Mr. Bill
—
W. S. L Yes ?
F. There's some shelves of books in this room in a very
6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January, 1927
pronounced position. You couldn't mistake them—you
just walk straight across from the door to them. (Feda
indicates opposite the door, straight in front.) There
may be a few more in other parts of the room, but these
are the most noticeable. Now she worked downwards.
W. S. I. Worked ?
F. Yes, she went to what she felt was the top shelf, and
she doesn't often go to top ones. [Note 1.]
First of all will you enquire if there's been a box removed
from this room near where the books are ? I can't tell
if it's a large or a small box, but I know it is a box.
[Note 2.]
She says, " While I was feeling the first few books, on the
top shelf, I had such a strong feeling, such a strong
feeling of figures—as if one of these first few books
dealt particularly "—Too quick !
—" with figures." That
didn't interest Dora, but she noticed it. Wait a minute.
But it took her back, it reminded her of something she
had to do here, Mr. Bill, in connexion with figures, not
that she did once or twice, but that she did reg-u-Zar-ly.
It's something you will remember too. Now, wait a
minute, Dora. This is 'portant, Mr. Bill, in a way.
She's showing me a little book, rather a flat book, and
she pretending to be awful careful adding up pennies in
this flat book. She says, " Not only pennies, shillings
and pounds." And this is something she did here that
these first few books will remind you of, Mr. Bill. She
used to make rather a fuss, a point of it, when she was
here, Mr. Bill. You used to notice it, and talk about
it, with lier, Mr. Bill, but she was the one to do it.
She says, " I know you'll be reminded of it directly
you see these books ; and you've got one book that I
used for that piu-pose at home still. [Note 3.]
Now she took the fifth book from the left. Wait a
minute. On the twenty-second page-—I'm not going to
say twenty-tooth any longer, twenty-second ;
people
can't laugh at me then ! Reference to eating and
things to eat, which will remind you of what you've
been doing recently. That's you, Mr. Bill. [Note 4.]
Now, wait a minute. " But further along, page 89, there
Jandaet, 1927 Cases 7
is a very good reference to a place and scenery that
you and I talked about, wanted to see, when I was
here on the earth with you." [Note 5.]
Now on the shelf below to the right hand side—wait a
minute !
—reminded her very much of—seemed so funny
—Baronets. Titles, but particularly Baronets. I know
what that is, Mr. Bill. Gentlemen what's made knights
are always so dreadful cross 'cos they wasn't Baro-
knights, 'cos I've got two or three what's sitters.
Dora says, " A distinct reference to Baronets, just at
the distinct right hand end of the shelf below the top
one. Something to do with history. [Note 6.]
History too on this shelf. A book towards the left of
this shelf that deals with history, I feel not one
particular period of history, but over several
periods, quite a long period. You said several ? Yes,
she says, Mr. Bill, that it's this book about history
• that she wants you to take next. She hasn't got the
number of the book, but it's the left hand end of this
same shelf. That's right. Have you got that ?
W. S. I. Yes.
F. It'll be unmistakable, and she wants you just to look
inside it. On page 1-8, 18, and there there is a re-
ference to a picture, a picture you have got at home,
one that you like, not a new one, one you've had a long
time. That's right. That's right. She thinks that
you'U be specially interested in this one, Mr. BOl,
because it is a picture that's connected with Dora.
[Note 7.]
Now, Mr. Bill, she doesn't anticipate that you'll have any
difficulty about tracing this room, and she says it has
given her a good condition before when she's tried.
Mr. Bill, she says, it isn't the rooms themselves, you
know, it's the people who've had the rooms that make
it easy, or difficult for her.
Notes by Mr. Irving.
1. From the above description I recognised this house as Mr.
Y.'s house at Hampstead. Series of book-tests, and other tests,
many of them good, were taken from here in September 1924 and
8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January, 1927
September 1925. On the latter occasion I had been asked by
Feda, " Do you know if there's some one whose name begins with
B. connected with this room, or house 1 " This settled the matter
to my mind. After the sitting I went to Hampstead, found Mr.
Y. at home, and secured his help in verifying the tests. I had
not been in his house since September 1925, and no former tests
have been taken from these particular shelves, the former tests
being from shelves behind glass over a bureau, to the right front
as you enter this room. The shelves from which the tests this
time are taken are opposite the door, some eight in number, and
extend from floor to ceiling. They are very conspicuous.
2. Mr. y. had to consult his Wife about this. A box-gramo-
phone had been borrowed by a relation, and taken from the house,
about a fortnight before the sitting. It had been brought back
on the Saturday, January 23, 1926. This gramophone is always
kept under a table about two yards in front of the bookshelves.
In appearance it is like an ordinary good-sized box : the gramo-
phone is inside it.
3. The books on the top shelf were small, many of them thin
little note-books. The 17th book from the left—which was only just
over a span ^ from that end of the shelf—was a small red-covered
note-book. On the inside of the cover, at the beginning of the
book, was a Calendar, at the end a " Table of Weights and
Measures and Foreign Coinage." Inside were Mr. Y.'s accounts
during a trip abroad. On one page I found hotel bills for
£1 18s., 15s. 2d., £1 2s. 3d. This book at once reminded me of
the little book in which my wife used to put down the accounts
for " washing." On my return home I found this book. It
seems to be a similar red-covered note-book, the only difference
being that on the inside back cover is " Henderson's Merchant's
Eeady Reckoner, showing the relative Values of the Standard
Weights," instead of the " Table of Weights and Measures and
'
Foreign Coinage." I frequently saw my wife adding up the
accounts in this book.
4. The fifth book from the left on the top shelf was " In Praise
of Walking." " Thoreau, Whitman, Hazlett, Burroughs." Pub-
lished by A. C. Field, 44 Fleet Street, E. C. On page 22 I only
found, " The story of Romulus and Remus being suckled by a
wolf. . . . The founders of every state . . . have drawn theii
hand's span.
•January, 1927 Cases 9
nourishment and vigour from a similar wild source." On page 23,
however (which touches page 22 when the book is closed) I
found:
There is a difference between eating and drinking for
strength, and from mere gluttony. . . . The Hottentots
eagerly devour the marrow of the Koodoo and other
Antelopes, raw . . . they have stolen a march on the
cooks of Paris. . . . This is probably better than stall-
fed beef and slaughter-house pork, to make a man of.
I must now quote a few sentences from Feda, given a little
later at this sitting
:
J'eda. But I don't think he has ! He's been eating something
with currants in ? Mr. Bill, it only sounds a little
thing, but she doesn't like you to eat things with
currants in, and you've been eating something with
currants. She doesn't like it, Mr. Bill. Isn't it a
- noosance ! Only a little thing, but she thinks you'll
know what she means.
About two hours before the sitting I had stopped at Purley
Station Hotel for luncheon. The Menu was as follows :
"
Soup,
Eoast Beef and Yorkshire Pudding, or Roast Pork and Apple
Sauce. Currant Pudding. Sauce." I had Roast Beef and Cur-
rant Pudding. In order to show that the Menu a day or two
after would not have agreed with the test, I copied it out while
lunching there on the following Thursday, two days later. It was
then :
" Soup, Boiled Beef, or Mutton Cutlets. Potatoes, Sprouts.
Pears and Cream. Rice Pudding and Prunes."
5. On page 89 I found: "I should on this -account like well
enough to spend the whole of my time in travelling abroad." And
•on page 88 (which touches page 89 when the book is closed:
" Nothing remains but the Bourbons and the French people.
There is undoubtedly a sensation in travelling into foreign parts."
A few days before her last . illness began my wife said to me :
"All being well, next year we'll go to Paris, if the War's over,
and stay with Dickie and Paul." " Dickie " is one of my wife's
married sisters, who was then Hving in Paris, while her husband
" Paul " was at the front. My wife and I have never travelled
abroad together, and I cannot recall that we ever planned to go
to any other place beforehand like that. The above quotation is
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January, 1927
is not from memory. It is written down among some " sayings
"
of my wife which I have preserved.
6. The last sentence may possibly belong to the next test ; it is
impossible to tell. The 9th book from the right, on the top shelf
but one, was " Chippinge, A Historical Novel," by Stanley
Weyman. Nelson & Sons, London. Although the book is the 9th
from the right, it was only just over a span from the end of the
shelf, as the books are small ones.
Corrohorative Statement by Miss Newton.
Mr. Irving asked me to look through the book " Chippinge
"
with a view to verifying the allusion to " Baronets, Titles, but
particularly Baronets." Examined with this in mind, the book
does seem to be unusually full of titles ; I quickly counted twenty,
as I turned the pages, and on page 28 I noticed that somebody's
" first sitting had been graced by the presence of three royal
dukes . . . and a score of peers."
There are about eight baronets in my list, including Sir Robert
Vermuyden, who is a conspicuous person in the story, closely
associated with the hero.
I. Newton.
7. The sixth book from the left hand end of this shelf was
" The Three Musketeers," by Dumas. I found nothing on page
18, but on page 19 (which touches page 18 when the book is
closed) I found :
he soon perceived by certain scratches that every weapon
was pointed and well-sharpened, and that at each of these
scratches not only the spectators, but even the actors them-
selves, laughed like so many mad men.
This description at once reminded me of a picture I have at
home, hanging in the spare bedroom, which illustrates the sentence
" He that will this toast deny, down among the dead men let him
lie." A Puritan stands beneath a picture of King Charles I.
holding a wine-glass reluctantly in his hand. On each side of
him stands a Cavalier with rapier in right hand and wine-glass in
left, threatening to run him through if he will not drink to the
toast. The Cavalier on the right has perhaps already gone beyond
threatening, as the Puritan has caught hold of the blade with his
hand. To the left are three more Cavaliers with swords raised
Januaey, 1927 Gases 11
high in right hand, and wine-glasses in left, apparently chanting a
song ; a fourth, on a table, covers the Puritan with a gun. To
my wife King Charles I. was a hero and a martyr. We bought
this little picture together over twenty-six years ago, and it was
one that we framed ourselves.
Corroborative Statement by Miss Newton.
I have verified the passage quoted from " The Three Muske-
teers," p. 19, Following it is a further description :
A circle was formed round them, the conditions required
that at every thrust the person hit should quit the game,
losing his turn to the advantage of the person who had hit
him. In five minutes three were slightly wounded. . . .
With regard to its being a book that " deals with several
periods of history," the Preface is concerned with the periods of
Louis XIII. and XIV. (the word period is many times mentioned).
There is also the period of the author himself. That is all.
I. Newton.
Mr. Irving sent the picture in question to the Society's
Rooms, and we have in our possession a photograph of it
which establishes the accuracy of his description. It wiU be
noted that the date of the period covered by the reign of
Louis XIII. and the early part of the reign of Louis XIV., that
is, the latter half of the seventeenth century, corresponds
approximately to the date of the scene illustrated by Mr.
Irving's picture and the costumes worn by the Cavaliers are
in general type such as one associates with Dumas's Three
Musketeers.
Mr. Irving also sent to the Society the two red note-books
discussed in Note 3, and the accuracy of his statements have
been verified.
A statement from Mr. Y. is appended to the record of the
sitting to the effect that the test was verified in his presence
and that Mr. Irving's account of it is correct.
12 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January, 1927
CORRESPONDENCE.
Concerning an Hallucination of a Cat.
\In (jiving permission for the following Statement to he printed in
the Journal, Dr. W. F. Prince asks us to say that it was made
informally in a personal letter to the Editor, Mrs. Salter.]
To the Editor of The Journal of the S.P.E.
June 18, 1926.
Dear Madam,—Referring to pages 66-71 of your last Journal
[Vol. XXIII. ,
May 1926] relating to an evidential hallucination of
a cat, with reference to a similar case in an earlier Journal, I
may say that another and very interesting case of the sort is to
be found in the American Proceedings for 1920, pages 294-308.
These were the experiences of members of a family with which I
have been in touch for many years. I took pains to collect the'
evidence, but it is of more importance that this evidence was
studied by the son of one of the witnesses, who was at the same
time the brother of a second and father of the third. He is a
man of sceptical bent though interested and openminded, and as
unbiased from family considerations as anyone whom I know.
In this case a white cat, which did not exist in the flesh, was
seen many times over a period of 13 years. On several
occasions the hallucination was experienced by two persons at the
same time, one of whom called attention to it after it had been
plainly perceived by the other. As in the case recently reported,
the cat was on one or two occasions apparently felt as well as
seen. And, according to the testimony, every such appearance of
the " white kitten " was shortly followed, either by the death of
a person related or the beginning of the fatal illness. My critical
friend has not undertaken to decide whether there is or is not
any significance in these coincidences, but he does declare that
the coincidences existed.
A curious feature of the case to which I referred, that of the
Young family, is that years before the first hallucination of a
" white kitten " such a kitten was owned by one of the afterward
witnesses, and mysteriously disappeared, with a consequent rather
poignant effect upon the emotions of this witness. If it could be
supposed that in some unknown fashion there could come into her
mind premonitions of the death of relatives, it might be that by
Jan'uarv, 1927 Correspondence 13
some obscure mechanism, the subconscious would call up the
image of the cat that had disappeared and probably died. But
one of the witnesses was of a younger generation and had nO'
recollection of the historical cat, and consequently no feelings-
whatever about it.
I suppose that a resolute specialist in the manipulation of the
theory of telepathy could explain the whole problem. It only
needs that we suppose
(1) That witness A was telepathically apprised of some morbid
condition on the part of each person, successively, who
died, with such accuracy that the impression never related
to a mere illness but always to a fatal one.
(2) That this telepathic impression, by a subconscious me-
chanism, called up the memory of the mysteriously-
disappeared kitten.
(3) That this memory objectified itself as the apparition of that
kitten.
(4) That by auto-suggestion the apparition was once reinforced
by the illusion of actually feeling the cat.
(5) And that on several occasions, the hallucination of the cat,
in the exact location it seemed to A to occupy was
passed over to witness B or witness C by telepathy.
As easy as that, and yet it may all be the veriest " bunk !
"
Walter Franklin Prince.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
The first part of the second volume of the Zeitschrifi fiir kritischen
OkhuUismus is of such high quality that the journal promises to be
the leading European periodical in psychical research. Dr.
Auerbach has a paper upon the work of an alleged clairvoyant,,
Mr. S., in which he fails to come to any decision as to the true
nature of the phenomena presented. Count Klinckowstroem pub-
lishes a comment on certain statements included in the Sieben-
mannerbuch." and Dr. Rosenbusch has a crushing reply to the
attacks made upon him in the same volume. The issue closes
with an " open " letter to Mr. Dingwall upon a technical point
recently discussed, and a lively controversy between. Count
14 Journal of Society for Psychical Research januaky, 1927
Klinckowstroem and Baron von Sckrenck-Notzing upon the manage-
ment of mediums.
The Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie for November has a con-
tinuation of Mr. Krall's account of . his experiments with the
thought-reader, Ninoii ; and Mr. Okolowicz of Warsaw has an
account of the travel paintings of the medium, Marjan Gruzewski.
In the October issue of Revalo Bund, Dr. Mattiesen publishes
an interesting survey of the recorded case of alleged shakings of
dwellings in which seances are taking place. Another phenomenon
which the author considers in the same article is the stopping
of clocks produced by purported psychic agencies. The issue for
November has a long discussion of points arising from a con-
sideration of the results obtained by Mr. Soal and Mrs. Cooper.
The issues of Nature from July 31 have had a correspondence
on Science and Psychical Research. The controversy was opened
by a review of Sir Conan Doyle's History of Spiritualism, by the
New Zealand entomologist. Dr. R. J. Tillyard. In the issue of
August 28 the controversy was continued, and in that for Sep-
tember 11 criticisms appeared from the pens of Mr. Campbell
Swinton and Dr. J. P. Lotsy, who inquired if Dr. Tillyard would
not refuse to investigate reputed cases of insects with bony
skeletons suckling their young. Mr. Campbell Swinton continued
the attack in the issue for September 25, in which he was joined
by Sir Bryan Donkin the following week. On October 16 Mr.
Swinton again entered the arena with a lively discussion con-
cerning the position of certain psychical researchers, and on
October 23 Dr. Tillyard replied to certain of his critics in such a
manner that a clear picture is obtained of his present attitude
towards the matter in dispute. " It is not the number of seances
that a man attends, but his capacity to draw definite conclusions
"
is, he says, what " really matters." In five sittings with three
different mediums, Dr. Tillyard declares that he has had " definite
supernormal results," and that these were under " strict test
conditions."
Sir Oliver Lodge continued the discussion on October 30 with
a consideration of the hypotheses which may be employed on the
assumption that the phenomena investigated by psychical re-
searchers " are real in the sense that when understood they will
lead to an extension of natural knowledge."
On November 20, in an admirable editorial summing up, the
Jantjaet, 1927 Notbi- iW Feriodieals 15
author called attention to the dubious history of spiritualism even
where the subject matter had been investigated by scientiiic
bodies. Thus the alleged phenomena of spiritualism can be com-
pared with the mysterious " N Rays," which were the subject of
fifty scientific papers and led to their discoverer being awarded a
substantial prize by the Paris Academy of Sciences. In the con-
cluding remarks the writer of the article shows an acute apprecia-
tion of the theories devised by the supporter of the reality of
" spirit photography " and the " direct voice." " When the
control becomes rigid," we read, " the phenomena cease alto-
gether. That is the general rule, and it admits of only one
interpretation "
(p. 722). In spite, however, of the failures and
discouragements, the author considers it " highly desirable that a
competent body should exist for making out a prima facie case
in favour of any alleged new phenomena of the class we are
discussing. Such a body we have in the Society for Psychical
Research. . .
."
The Sunday Chronicle (October 17, 1926) has been giving an
account of their enquiry into the phenomena of spiritualism. A
committee had been formed and the sittings of various mediums
attended. Among those visited were Mr. Evan Powell, Mr.
Harold Evans, Mrs. A. B. Deane, the Misses Moore, Mrs. Blanche
Cooper, etc. The findings of the committee have not been
favourable to the claims of the mediums, and on one occasion the
light was turned up upon Mr. Harold Evans revealing the latter
draped in a white overall posing as the materialised spirit,
" Sister Catherine." This incident seemed to convince a few
prominent spiritualists that Mr. Evans is not always reliable,
although at a seance held on November 8 under the auspices of
the Chiswick Christian Spiritualist Church, Mr. Evans' performance
was stated to produce " undeniable evidence of materialisation and
physical phenomena " {West London Observer, November 9, 1926).
Similarly Mr. Munnings (see Journal S.P.R., 1926, XXIII.
pp. 73 sq.) has again started his performances, for on November 14
he conducted another of his experiments in " broadcasting spirit
voices " at the Southend Kursaal. As at the previous exhibition
(lb. p. 74) no names were announced, but it is understood that
the medium Munnings " following a period of retirement, has re-
turned to public work again " (Thameside Mail Nov. 20, 1926).
16 Jourim.l,of: Society^ -for Psychical Research January, 1927
REVIEW.
The Divining Rod. By Sir William Barrett, F.R.S., and
Theodore Besterman. Methuen (18s. net), pp. 336.
Dowsing was a subject of which Sir William Barrett had made
a life-long study, and everyone interested in this curious by-path
of knowledge must be glad that in the latter part of his life he
found so able a co-adjutor as Mr. Besterman. The j)resent volume
is a worthy monument of their joint labours.
The history of dowsing is peculiar. Quite unknown in classical
antiquity and, apparently, in the early Middle Ages, and not much
in use among primitive peoples at any time, it suddenly becomes
a subject of frequent reference in 15th century Germany, whence it
seems to have been introduced into France, England, and other lands.
While at first mainly employed for the discovery of metals (with
the detection of corpses and criminals as a side-line), its principal
use at the present day is for the discovery of subterranean water
supplies. For this purpose it has been often successfully resorted
to in recent years by large landowners after the efforts of trained
geologists had failed. Several instances of this, well documented
and illustrated by plans, are quoted in the book.
It might be thought that the causes of a phenomenon so wide-
spread and so readily capable of being subjected to experiment^
would by now have been placed beyond doubt ; and there is no
dearth of hypothetical explanations, including diabolical agency, elec-
tricity and (abhorred word !)
" cryptaesthesia." Our authors incline
to the last, but he would be a bold man who would assert that any
of the rival hypotheses has been satisfactorily proved or disproved.
It is in fact on the theoretic side that the book is weak. In
particular the recent German investigations summarised by Count
Carl V. Klinckowstroem in S.P.R. Journal for 1925, pp. 54-60, de-
serve more consideration than the brief and not altogether accurate
references made to them under the heading " Obsolete Theories."
The historic side, on the other hand, deserves nothing but
praise, whether our authors deal with the earlier period before
orthodox science had come on the scene, or with our own time
when the dowser has to hold his own with the geological expert.
For both periods the book is profusely illustrated, and some of
the early prints are most entertaining. In conclusion, not the
least of the book's many merits are the admirably full biblio-
graphy and index. W. H. S.
No. 432.—Vol. XXIV. Februart, 1927.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i,
ON
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23rd, 1927, at 5 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
"A Report on Thought-Transference Experiments"
(Illustrated hv Lantern Slides)
will be read by
Miss INA JEPHSON.
N.B.
—
A^o Tickets of Adiiiissio?i are issued for tliis Meeting. Me/nbers
and Associates tvill be admitted on signing tlieir names at the door.
18 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Februaet, 1927
NEW MEMBERS.
Carruthers, Miss Helen, 1 Campden Houses, Peel Street,
Jvondoti, S.
Glover, Captain A. C, Middle Court, Hampton Court.
Moore, Miss M. H. S., GO Acacia Road, St. John's Wood,
London, N.W. 8.
Smith, Percy K., Painesville, Ohio, U.S.A.
Thompson, Dr. R. Busher, " Fellside," Brixham, S. Devon.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 232nd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Monday, December 20th, 1926, at
3 p.m., Sir Oliver Lodge in the chair. There were also
present: The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour, Mr. E. N. Bennett,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. W. H.
Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, and Dr. V. J. WooUey ;
also, Mr.
E. J. Dingwall, Research Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Five new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for November, 1926, were presented.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
The 88th Private Meeting for Members and Associates was held
in the Library at 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C., on
Monday, December 20th, 1926, at 5 p.m.. Dr. V. J. Woolley
in the chair.
Dr. Robert H. Thouless read a report on " The Alleged
Action of Nervous Effluence in Hypnotism," which will, it
is hoj^ed, be published later in Proceedings.
A discussion followed in which Mr. G. R. S. Mead. Dr. C. S.
Myers, Mr. Wohlgemuth, Dr. V. J. Woolley and others took
part.
Fkbruart, 1927 Hijimagogh Phenomena 19
HYPNAGOGIC PHENOMENA.
Note by F. E. Lea>:ixg.
Since our last note on this subject in the Jodrnal for
December, 1925, only a few cases have come to our notice,
but two general observations arise out of them. The Rev.
H. Byerley Thomson remarks that he had never heard of the
visions, and had no experience of them until about two
years ago, when he was surprised and puzzled by their occur-
rence. Yet he sees in the crystal and has had psychic ex-
periences from the age of fifteen. His account was sent us
in June, 1926. In August a letter appeared in Nature (Aug.
7th) from Dr. J. H. Kenneth referring to that of M. Gheury
de Bray (of March 17th, 1923) and describing the faintly
coloured landscape images (one of them recognised and there-
fore a memory-image) seen on waking. This drew forth a
further letter from M. de Bray {Nature, Sept. 11th, 1926),
and hence three other correspondents favoured us with de-
scriptions. One of these. Miss Kennaway, also refers to the
scanty information on the subject. As far as any reasoned
and studious discussions of these phenomena are concerned, it
is scanty, but since I have given attention to it I have been
struck with the frequency with which the experience itself is
met with in our literature. Just as Maury noticed in his
patients at the Salpetriere how marked a period the oncoming
of sleep was for the development of certain symptoms, so one
finds repeatedly that the hypnagogic condition (though not
under its technical name as a rule) is mentioned in connection
with visions of the specific type under consideration.
My second point is that in spite of the similarity that
binds all these descriptions into the one class of liaUucinations
liypnagogiques, it is particularly unsafe to generalize on any
particular feature of them. Mr. George E. Browne, a reader
of Nature who wrote to draw my attention to the letters
referred to, almost simultaneously with those received through
M. Gheury de Bray, finds himself diifering as widely as
possible from the bulk of hypnagogists, in that he is most
brilliantly awake and finds his visions so intensely interesting
20 Journal of Society for Psychical Research fkbruarv, v.)-2t
that he has to stop them in order to get to sleep at all.
Other points, such as the degree of illumination and colour,
the speed, the character, and so on,' will be found to be
absolutely opjjosed in the experience of different individuals,
even in this small group of half-a-dozen persons. This seems
to illustrate the fact that the mechanisms of the unconscious-
are too intricate, or too much veiled by idiosyncrasy, to be
definitely laid down yet. The only things that come out
beyond dispute are that the subconscious does use memory-
images, as the conscious mind itself does (and must), that it
recombines various elements so as to make unrecognised re-
sults, as some peojjle also consciously do when " imagining,
'
or writing fiction, designing, etc., and that it can help itself
to ideas in neighbouring minds and produce much more
marvellous effects in many ways than are possible to the
conscious mind voluntarily using its normal powers.
With these preliminary remarks I now give the descriptions,
received, summarized where required by conditions of space.
I. From the Ri'c. H. Byerley Thomson.
Health : nornial, nothing to account for the appearances.
Size : of a postage stamp, external, about a few feet away,
details visible and well-defined. Colour ; never brilliant, always
low in tone. " They have the appearance and characteristics of.
photographs more than of pictures " [Cp. S.P.R. Proceedings, vol..
XXXV. p. 338]. Duration : a few seconds. Subjects : Faces,
men, rarely women ;
head and neck. Two types, dark bearded
Oriental, clean-shaven European ;
middle-aged, hard and severe,,
no movement, smile, etc. Women more varied, well-defined,.
" of a soulful expression." With one exception all of strangers •
emphatically not produced by memory.
This gentleman tells me that he was originally trained as a
civil engineer, but is naturally clairvoyant and mediumistic.
When psychometrising he sees the visions as larger and clearer
than in the crystal ;
and cau see them at any time on closing
his eyes.
II. Mr. H. R. Cah-ert {through M. Gheury de Bray).
" My images are all '
cinematographic '
and not panoramic."'
He gives an instance of seeing on waking (but with eyes still
Pebrlahv, 1927 Hypnagogic Phenomena 21
closed) while his brother, who was already dressing, had just
reminded him of the time, a group of students like those in a
team photograph seen the previous evening. In it . his brother
"was included, but in shirt-sleeves, without a collar, etc. This
was evidently a combination of a memory-image with a modifica-
tion from immediate consciousness, and as such is unusual. He
adds, " The whole thing could not have taken much more than a
minute. I am not quite certain whether I thought that what I
i\-as observing was the actual group of boys or whether I thought
that it was a photograph, but if the latter I do not remember
noticing the white mount. In any case . . . the whole picture
was perfectly stiU, and I was in a wakeful condition."
III. From Miss M. Kennaivay (through M. Gheury de Bray).
" These images appear for no apparent reason. Some are ab-
solutely steady and do not alter at all but simply fade ; others
dissolve from one scene to another, these often containing figures
which move about, usually in a dim light -so that I am not
certain on what they are engaged. These figures as a rule
appear to belong to a bygone age.
" Scenery is nearly always unnaturally distinct, with the hard
clearness of a cold day after rain. Sometimes, though, it is not
so, and dark trees against a sunset sky, sheep coming down a
lane towards me with light on their backs, or beautiful snow effects,
among other scenes, have been true to nature in every way.
Other pictures are in a strange dim light, neither sunshine nor
true daylight.
They all come usually on first waking. The scenes are some-
times quite small as though looked at through a diminishing glass,
and with the clear briUiance seen through a camera lens.
" Faces also are very distinct, in a curious half light as a rule,
and following each other sometimes in rapid succession. Wonder-
ful patterns appear occasionally in neutral or dim colours, so
intricate that gTeat skill would be required to draw them and far
too complicated for any but a general remembrance."
IV. M. Gheury de Bray.
Writing in Nature of September 11th, 1926, on " Spatial and
Time Relations in Dreams," M. de Bray describes the emergence
of a perfectly steady memory-image of a mountain side seen two
24 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Fkbkuaet, 1927
Set 3 (Nov. 14th) gave " a vast curved shore of a lake or bay,
seen through the loggia or forecourt of a Roman villa. The far
distance was a mile or more and the intervening water faint
mother-of-pearl with tiny ripples coming in. There were a
number of ornamental bronze stands on stone bases, and of very
elegant design, all round the edge.
Set 4, Night scene. Broad river intensely black, chateau on
right, and small ill-defined building in far distance. Observer
apparently standing on bridge in foreground. No light in sky.
This gave place to a bird with illuminated ruby eyes that went
in and out ! He came four tnnes with slight changes of form.
Set 5. Geometrical Star of turquoises, luminous globules, etc.
Set 6, and last. Proscenium arch of great height ;
pilasters
arranged at odd angles, like a cubist drawing : impression of
many peojjle on the left. Then a " flash " view of a large
studio in very warm colours ; red turkey carpet, sienna red waUs.
Large divan with young man in grey suit leaning back. Large
and fine painting above it. Easel in corner and lady in painting
blouse facing observer but looking at the man. Lasted one-fifth
second. The above scene disappeared, ' but some dim trace of the
picture remained without colour. Against an all but black back-
ground could dimly be discerned the one figure it contained ; like
smoke it formed, faded, formed again, and again disappeared for
good.
CONCERNING THE "MARGERY" CASE.
Editorial Note.
In Part 101 of Proceedings, pp. 414-432, there appeared a letter
from the Hon. Everard Feilding embodying certain observations
by Mr. Hoagland and Mr. Code on Mr. Feilding's review of
Mr. Hoagland's article in the Atlantic Monthly for November, 1925.
From Mr. Feilding's review and those replies it is abundantly
clear that the whole question regarding the genuineness of the
" Margery " mediumship has become involved in a tangle of
allegations and denials on plain matters of fact, and of imputa-
tions and insinuations against the veracity of the principal per-
sons concerned, which it would be hopeless for any one not
having personal knowledge of the disputants to attempt to unravel.
rKliliUARY, 1027 Concerning tJie '
Ilargery" Case 25
Accordingly, while feeling bound to aUow our reviewer, Mr.
Peilding, to correct certain points in his review, we appended an
Editorial note saying that no further correspondence would l^e
published.
Our desire is to have as little as possible to do either in Pro-
ceedings or in the Journal with the whole " Margery " question
unless and until it is disentangled from the charges and counter-
charges surrounding it, since, until this has been done, it is not
possible (in this country at any rate) to make any advance in
discussing the matter in the only aspect which is of interest to
Psychical Research.
We print here, however, a letter from Dr. W. F. Prince, as it
is confined to answering points already raised in a previous
Jo urnal.
Dr. Peince'^s Letter.
December IQUk 1926.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Dear Madam,—On page 157 of the November Journal, referring
to my review of the documentary evidence on the Margery Case,
the following sentence occurs : '"An attack is also made upon
the various publications in favour of the medium, and extracts
are selected in order to show the various '
changes,' '
omissions
'
and '
subtractions That statement is misleading : the changes,
omissions and subtractions were charged against one publication,
namely the one bearing the names of Dr. Crandon and others,
entitled " Margery-Harvard-Veritas," which declared that it con-
tained the Harvard sitting-notes " absolutely as written and
signed." No answer to my charges has ever been printed, nor
was one possible. I even saw the copy of the sitting-notes sent
to the printer, with many passages cancelled by pen.
On the same page of your Journal it is asked why the Scientific
American Committee accepted unfavourable conditions. I have
repeatedly endeavoured to make the writer of the criticism under-
stand that this Committee was not an independent body, but
leally a jury of the magazine, to give verdicts on cases brought
before it. I took part in the investigation of several previous
cases, wherein the apparatus was furnished and the other arrange-
ments made ahnost entirely by the staff of the Scientific American.
Later, in the Margery Case, certain members of the Committee
26 Jounml of Society for Psychical Research February, 1927
stepped out of their j^arts to a certain extent, but as long as
Mr. Bird was Secretary to the Committee and " general stage
manager " (his own term) no one of the Committee had a right
to say him nay. Soon after Mr. Bird ceased to be Secretary,
opportunities for further sittings were denied the Committee.
Every innuendo, in the item on your page 157, directed against
the Committee, falls upon that member of the Scientific American
staff who acted as " executive officer,"' kept the records, and
arranged matters so that for weeks one member of the Com-
mittee did not even know that experiments were being conducted.
As to the number of times the "hnk"' was controlled, that appears
to those most familiar with the situation a matter of little con-
sequence, for reasons which did not appear until late in the
series.
Walter Franklin Prince.
AN EAELY RECORD OF A POLTERGEIST CASE
The following extract from The Political State of Great
Britain, February, 1738, p. 165, has been sent to us by Father
Herbert Thurston, S.J.
Letters from Bristol of the 7th of January (1738) brought as
the following very odd particulars which will serve to put people
on their guard with respect to accidents which at first sight seem
to have something in them supernatural.
From Portishead we have a very odd account of the inhabitants
in general there having been for several weeks past under a
consternation of witchcraft, notwithstanding the incongruity of
such sorcery being yet surviving in G-reat Britain. An outcry
was daily made of this prodigy by droves of people who visited
the house where the witchcraft was reported to be in full power,
which belonged to one Flower, an old tailor, noted for nursing
parish children for 18d. per week. This old man and his old
wife have severely felt the effect of it, for at every instant one
or the other had a bang on the head, or some other part of the
body, with large stones, spoons, knives, etc., and divers people
who visited the house for their satisfaction and truth of the
matter, met with the same reception, and saw the windows broke,
but knew not by what means, and such was the fear of many
February, 1927 An Early Record of a Poltergeist Case 27
that they thought it dangerous to enter the house ; and the twO'
old people, in order to drive the dilemma from them, were
constantly at prayer by the advice of the good people. At
length a gentlewoman of this city (Bristol) who happened to be
at a gentleman's seat, hearing of this, reported by the family
where she then resided, and putting no faith in such chimeras,
resolved like the rest to visit the bewitched house and saw several
things flung about, but imperceivable from whence ; and repeating
her visit, at length began to look with a suspicious eye upon a
little girl of about twelve years old, grand-daughter to the old
people, who, she always perceived, placed herself in a window
behind whatever persons came into the room, and she receiving
a blow on the arm with a spoon, conjectured it must come from
the girl, and therefore immediately searched her, and to her
surprise found two pockets full of large pebble stones, etc., under
her petticoats, which she artfully flung at convenient opportunities,
and carried on this subtilty so far as to occasion much wonder
that a little witch so young could manage her scheme so well
to deceive a whole parish ; for beside this she had a knack in
changing her voice to several topes. The gentlewoman had the
thanks of the whole parish for laying this young witch.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
The October issue of the Journal of the American Society for
Psychical Research has a paper by Mr. Rene Sudre in defence of
Crawford. Mr. Sudre is of the opinion that the Goligher phenomena
were authentic, and that their investigator's findings are of capital,
importance. He does not attempt to meet the objections raised
by the English inquirers and also by Dr. Rosenbusch in the
" Dreimannerbuch," neither does he comment upon the remarkable'
discrepancies between Crawford's theories and the photographs^
which are supposed to prove the correctness of those ideas.
The same number has an account of a sitting with Frau Silbert
by Baron Winterstein, who describes the usual manifestations
occurring with this medium. The November issue of the same
Journal has a detailed account of a sitting with Margery, ap-
parently conducted by Professor McComas (Princeton) and Pro-
fessor Overstreet (New York). Attempts were made to meet
2S Journal of Society for Psychical Research February, 1!J27
certain objections raised against tlie control when the glass cabinet
was in use, and fifty large-headed luminous pins were placed
on Margery's arms, wrists, ankles, head and knees. Whilst Prof.
Overstreet had his hand over the medium's mouth, Walter both
Avhistled and spoke, and certain luminous objects remained floating
within the cabinet in front of the medium. The bell-box was
also em|)!oyed, and when Prof. Overstreet carried it about, with-
drawing nine feet from the medium, the bell continued to ring
intermittently. These phenomena, the report states, took place
in red light, beginning and ending in the same period of red
.light (p. 682).
BuUeiiii IV. of the Boston Society for Psychic Research consists
of a very suggestive report by Mrs. Sagendorph of certain ex-
periences of her own which formed the basis of some experi-
ments with mediums. The narrative is clearly written ; the notes
are full and provide a running commentary to the text ; and the
story provides a neat little episode in the history of mental
mediumship. It is a pity that more notes were not taken at
the beginning, but this can easily be understood when it is
remembered that the characters in the incident were not aware of
"the developments which subsequently ensued.
Psyche for October has a spirited discussion between rival
anthropological experts on the claims of the " diffusionists," whilst
Prof. McDougall contributes a long paper on the " Margery Medium-
.ship
""
in which he reviews the history of the case, with special
reference to his own methods in its investigation. The paper
contains a number of novel features and should be read by all
those who wish to become acquainted with the personalities of
this famous controversy. The author is of the opinion that,
should Margery's claims be substantiated, she is " jjerhaps
the most remarkable medium of all time "
(p. 1-5). In con-
sidering the positions of the various opposing parties in the case,
Prof. McDougall divides them into two opposing camps, the
Pros and the Cons. Amongst the Cons he cites Dr. Prince,
Mr. Hoagland, Dr. Corastock and himself. As regards his own
observations, Prof. McDougall states that he has taken part
"in a considerable number of investigations of alleged super-
normal phenomena " ; but hitherto he has " failed to find
convincing evidence in any case." Prof. McDougall then con-
tinues to examine the Margery case, and in an acute analysis of
Fkbruart, 1927 Notes on Periodicals 29-
the alleged teleplastic plieuomena contrasts the appearance of the
'•
telepksm " when lying on the table and its alleged activities
when invisible and under a good light. This difficulty is one-
which has never been squarely faced, and it is present not only
in the case of Margery. Thus the fragile nature of Eva C"s
"teleplasm" can be compared with the alleged formations re-
sponsible for the supposed telekinetic phenomena of the Brothers .
Schneider. The apparent inconsistency may be due to our own
ignorance, or it may on the other hand be due to the fact that
the whole theory of "teleplasm"" is in reality based upon a
gigantic imposition. At all events, Prof. McDougall has done good
work in exposing its presence in the case of the Boston medium.
The Zeitsclmft fur Po.rajpsychologie for December, 1926, has a
continuation of Mr. Krall's discussion of thought-transference in
men and animals. He continues his account of the experiments
with the Brazilian telepathist, Ninoff. Professor H. J. Klem
supplements the discussion with a brief paper on the same medium,
in which he comes to the conclusion that there is no reasonable
doubt of the reality of Ninoffs powers ;
whilst Mr. Yaldek and
Mr. Mery give their views concerning the phenomena. Mr..
Kinoff's exhibition appears to be somewhat as follows. He stands
in a circle of about a dozen persons, all of whom are entire
strangers to him. His eyes are bandaged with a napkin and the
bandage is supplemented by a roUed-up glove which is laid over
his eyes. He then asks one of the company to think of an.
object which he is to remove from the thinker's pocket. Upoa
a member of the audience obliging, Ninofi approaches^ him and
proceeds to rummage through his pockets. We will assume that
the object thought of was a pocket-book. Xinofi produces it,
and then asks for- certain of the contents of the pocket-book to
be thought of. The owner does so, and the medium indicates
them correctly.
Revalo Bund for December has a paper by Prof. Messer of
Giessen on the psvchology of the opponents of occultism, in which
he discusses the recently published works of Hellwig ^ and Bruhn.^
Prof. Messer complains that neither Hellwig nor Bruhu are
justified in their criticisms since both have had but little actual
experience. Those who have had such experience are inclined,.
1 A. Hellwig, Ohkultistmis u. Wis-sen-schaft (Stuttgart, 1926).
^C. Bruhn, Gelehrte in Hypnose (Hamburg, 1926).
30 Journal of Society for Psychical Research febkuary, 1927
according to Messer, to reproach critical authors with the retort,
" You speak as the blind man speaks of colour (p. 360).
The same issue has a continuation by Dr. Mattiesen of his
paper on the appearance of the living in the trance-drama of
mental medium s
.
The Occult Review for December has the second part of Mr.
Besterman"s interesting account of cases of clairvoyance as seen
in primitive peoples ; and the Editor has a few notes on occult
self-development among Western students.
E. J. D.
.
Mr. Bluett Lee, whose contributions to American legal periodi-
cals on the law as affecting Psychical Research we have previously
noticed, has in the Virginia Law Review for November 1926 some
interesting comments on a recent case in the English Courts in
w^hich the copyright in autoinatic writing was in dispute. He
suggests that the "communicator" could and should have been
called as a witness i While the circumstances in this particular
case were peculiar, the general c|uestion as to the copyright not
only of automatic writings, but of the trance utterances of mediums,
requires careful consideration by Psychical researchers.
CORRESPOOT)ENCE.
THE OBJECTS OF THE SOCIETY.
Deceiither, 1926.
To iJic Editor of tlie Journal of the S.P.R..
Dear Madam,—Recent correspondence on Psychical Research in
Nature and a leading article in the number for November 20th,
1926, winding up the discussion, afford perhaps a good occasion
for reminding members of our Society what the Society stands
for and what the objects of its principal founders were. The
article referred to. which is on the whole friendly to the Society,
though not perhaps very well informed, states that " The S.P.R.
founders were largely the Fabians of Spiritualism. Their object
was to sift the physical and mental j^h^non^ena of Spiritualism
and to sort out those to which they could give their adherence
without a loss of self-respect or scientific standing." Now as
myself one of the founders and intimately connected with them,
FEBRnAEi-, 1927 Correspondence 31
I can say emphatically that this was not their object. They did
not desire to find among the evidence presented to them what
they could profess to believe without sacrificing their reputation.
They were not so unscientific, nor, I may add, so unscruxmlous.
Their hope in founding the Society was to further investigations
in which they had already been engaged, and, with a view to
increasing our knowledge of facts, to get in touch with as many
other people interested in the subjects in question as possible,
especially with those who had themselves had experiences bearing
on them.
On the whole we have, I think, been fairly successful in this.
But quite lately there has seemed to be a difficulty : fewer accounts
of experiences have, I believe, been sent to us. This may be
due to a recurring, but very erroneous, idea that we have had
•enough. But it may be partly due to a difierent cause of which
I have heard rumour.s—rumours which are really the reason for
my writing this letter. I am told that there are members of
the Society who think that those who manage it are unduly
selective in what they publish in Proceedings, pu.bhshing only
-what accords with their preconceived theories, or what tends in
the direction of their own desires. This would be almost as bad
as the principle of selection of which Nature accuses the founders
•of the Society and would be altogether wrong for a scientific
societv. Of course it would be quite permissible for a society
•existing with the object of encouraging among its members and
spreading abroad a particular belief, but the object of our Society
is simply to try to find out the truth, and we are bound to
publish what seems good evidence either in favour of the truth
of certain theories or of certain alleged facts, or, on the other
hand, against them. Only the evidence must be good, or at
least as good as our researches can make it. Those who have
already made up their minds that all is known that can be
known, whether negatively or positively, about the subjects our
Societv exists to investigate, naturally will not be interested in
our Proceedings. Neither those determined to doubt nor those
determined to believe will care for evidence which might
disturb them in their point of view. We publish for those
-who reahse that much evidence is still recjuired, that a com-
parative study of well evidenced phenomena is much needed, and
that hardly anything is yet known of the way telepathy, for
32 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February, 1927"
instance, works. We are still groping about in the dark about
this and other things.
But our critics will j^erhaps say that what they complain of
is not intentional selection, but a difference of judgment about
what is good evidence. That, I fear, may be more or less in-
evitable, but I would urge critics to call the attention of our-
officers to any case which they think has been improperly over-
looked. Discussion may reduce differences of view and is at
any rate better than attributions of unworthy motives on entirely^
conjectural grounds.
In conclusion, I would beg for patience. Considering the ex-
treme difficulty of our subjects, the few people who can produce
the evidence we wish to investigate, and the comparatively small!
number of investigators, I cannot think our progress has been
so very slow, nor do I think it likely to be rapid in the
immediate future, or that we can hope constantly to have for-
publication papers of a sensational kind. That the whole inves-
tigation is of the most important nature possible I. however, feel as-
strongly as I have always done.
I am. Madam,
Yours faithfully,
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
REVIEW.
Ohlcultismus uud Wissenschaft nnter hesotulerer Berucksichtiyuny der
Telehinese uud der ninferialisafionen. Von Dr. Albert Hellwig.,
Pp. xi. 127. Stuttgart : F. Enke, 1926. M. 6.30.
This volume is another of those contributions to serious dis-
cussion wdiich are now appearing from the members of the critical
German school of psychical researchers. It deals mainly with
telekinesis and materialization, and the author selects for his attack
Eva C. and Willi Schneider. Dr. Hellwig is not convinced of
the bona fides of either medium, and he discusses in some detail
the reasons why the new German school reject the testimony of
witnesses to the realitv of the physical phenon\ena.
E. J. D.
No. 433.—Vol. XXIV. March, 1927.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD AT
19B TAVISTOCK SQUARE. LONDON. W.C. i,
IN THE HASTINGS HALL,
ON
WEDIS^ESDAY, MARCH 1.6th, 1927, at 5 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" My Transatlantic Experiences
"
WILL BE READ BY
THE PRESIDENT.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admissioti are issued for this Meetijxg. Members
and Associates will he admitted on signing their names at the door.
34 Journal of Society for Psychical Research march, 1927
NEW MEMBERS.
Giberson, 0. 0., M.D., 538 East Broadway, Alton, III, U.S.A.
Huxlev, Professor Julian S., King's College, Strand, London,
\y c. '2.
Le Rossignol, Miss C. E., 37 Victoria Road. Kensington, London,
w.
«
Librarian, Swarthmore College Library, Swarthmore, Penna.,
U. te. A.
Sese, Albin, 51 rue Perronet, Neuilly s/Seine, France.
Svoboda, Dr. Karlo A., Wilsonov trg 107. Belgrade, Jugoslavia.
Thomas, John F., 4375 Buena Vista, West Detroit, Michigan,
U.S.A.
^
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 233rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Monday, January 31st, 1927, at
2.30 p.m., The Right Hon. Gerald' W. Balfour in the chair.
There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mr. E. N.
Bennett, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr. J. G. Piddington,
Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Dr. F. C. S. Scliiller,
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ;
also, Mr. E.
J. Dingwall, Research Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secre-
tary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
The Report of the Council for the year 1926 was considered
and approved as amended.
The 234th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Monday, January 31st, 1927, im-
mediately after the Annual General Meeting of the Society,
The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour in the chair. There
were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mr. E. N. Bennett,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. W. H.
Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller and Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick ;
also Mr. E. J. Dingwall, Research Officer, and Miss
Isabel Newton, Secretary.
March, 1927 Meetings of the Council 35
Seven new Members were elected. Their names and ad-
dresses are given above.
Professor Dr. Hans Driesch. was re-elected President of the
Society for the year 1927.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Referetice and Publication.—The Right Hon.
Gerald W. Balfour, Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr.
J. G. Piddington, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
Mr. W. Whately Smith, and Dr. V. J. WooUey.
House and Finance Committee.—Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mr.
W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, and
Dr. V. J. WooUey.
Mr. W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Treasurer ; Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick and Mr. W. H. Salter were re-elected Hon.
Secretaries ; Mrs. W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Editor,
and Dr. V. J. Woolley, Hon. Research Officer ; and Messrs.
Miall, Willdns, Avery and Co. were re-elected Auditors for
the current year.
Corresponding Members and Hon. Associates were elected
for the year 1927.
AJSFNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS.
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was
held at 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C., on Monday,
January 31st, 1927, at 3.30 p.m., -The Right Hon. Geralb
W. Balfour in the chair. There were also present : Mr. W.
W. Baggally, Mr. E. N. Bennett, Mr. Theodore Besterman,
Mrs. G. R. Davis, Mrs. DingwaU, Mr. C. B. Fernald, Mrs.
Fernald, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mrs. Kingsley, Mrs. Leaning,
Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mrs. Robertson, Mr. W. H. Salter,
Mrs. W. H. Salter, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
Mr. W. S. Montgomery Smith, and Mr. Warren J. Vinton.
The Chairman presented the Report of the Council. Mr.
W. H. Salter read the Report to the Meeting, and dis-
cussion was invited.
In rej)ly to questions as to the proportion of the Society's
income devoted specifically to research, and to the Library,
the Hon. Treasurer said it would be most misleading to take
36 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Maech, 1927
the sum appearing in the Annual Accounts under the heading
" Research and Travelling Expenses " as being any gauge of
the extent of the Society's research work. In the first place,
much of the most important research work was done voluntarily
by members and did not cost the Society a penny, except
for printing the results. Further, both the Secretary and the
Assistant Secretary, in addition to their ordinary administrative-
work, spent considerable time on what is definitely research
work, and the salary of the Research Officer was paid out of
a separate fund, and so did not figure on the General Accounts.
Owing to the generosity of various members, finance had
not for some few years past been, and was not now, in any
way a limiting factor in research. As regards physical
phenomena, the difficulty was to find subjects worth investi-
gating and willing to be investigated under suitable conditions.
As to the Library, it should be remembered that the Society
received most of the current literature of any importance
either by gift or in exchange from other Societies. The
Council were however carefully considering whether any im-
provements could be effected in the Library and the Library
Catalogue.
The Hon. Treasurer, presenting the Financial Statement,,
said that the Society started the year with a balance in hand
of £703 8s. 4d. and ended with a balance of £425 7s. 8d.
Of this balance £177 17s. 9d. belonged definitely to Research,
being the balance of Special Research Donations ; and £150
was on deposit (£100 being placed to the Dilapidations Fund,,
and a legacy of £50 was awaiting investment). The actual
balance was therefore £110 3s. 5d. On the other hand,
upwards of £400 had been invested. It had already been
mentioned that a member who died recently had very generously
left to the Society a legacy of £200 free of duty, but this had
not yet been received. He felt that he ought to add that
the Council were always much touched when members remem-
bered the Society in a way which would help to enable ife
to carry on its work in the future.
The Chairman announced that the six retiring Members of
Council offered themselves for re-election. No other nomina-
tions having been received, the following were declared to be
March, 1927 Annual Report of the Council for 1926 37
dvily elected Members of the Council : The Rt. Hon. G. W.
Balfour, Mr. E. N. Bennett, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Sir
Oliver Lodge, Professor W. M'Dougall, and Dr. V. J. Woolley.
Al^NUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR 1926
The Society has had the honour, during the year 1926, of
having Prof. Dr. Hans Driesch of Leipzig as its President, and
we are glad to be able to announce that he has consented to
allow himself to be nominated for re-election for a second
year. We cannot, of course, expect from him a second
presidential address, but hope that he may visit us, and per-
haps have something to say to us on his way home from
the United States in March.
In no country has greater scientific interest been shown in
Psychical Research of recent years than in Grermany, and we
feel confident that Dr. Driesch's two years of presidency will
contribute to closer co-operation between ourselves and German
investigators in the same fields.
The Council observe with gratification signs of increased
interest in the Society's work among persons who have not
themselves taken active part in it, but approach the subject
throuo-h research in other scientific fields, such as Natural
Science or orthodox Psychology. We may instance the recent
discussion of physical phenomena in Nature which closed with
the Editorial comment that it is " highly desirable that a
competent body should exist for making out a prima facie
case in favour of any alleged new phenomena of the class we
are discussing. Such a body we have in the Society for
Psychical Research
;
" and also Dr. Broad's comments in his
book The Mind and its Place in Nature, reviewed in our Journal,
December, 1925. Our members may also remember the series
of articles on " Spiritualism and the Church," published in
the Morning Post in March and early April, in which Dr.
Percy Dearmer expressed high appreciation of the Society's
work and critical methods. In this connexion we may also
mention that for the first time an Academic Institution has
seriously discussed the case for and against Psychical Research.
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research biarch, 1927
A special course of lectures was given at Clark University,
Worcester, Mass., last November and December, among the
lecturers being Dr. Driesch, Dr. ScbiUer and Dr. Walter Prince.
The Society undoubtedly owes its position in the scientific
world, of which the aforesaid references are e^ddence, to the
consistency with which, avoiding all sensationalism, it has
adhered to the fundamental principles of scientific enquiry, and
in particular to its patient accumulation and cautious sifting of
evidence. The Council feel that at no time in the Society's
history has it been more important to maintain this attitude
than at the present time. In early days two of the principal
obstacles with which the Society had to contend were indif-
ference and ridicule. These have now been replaced in many
quarters by an attitude of uncritical acceptance, which is
impatient of the Society's apparently slow advance, and con-
duces as little as indifference to impartial enquiry.
The phenomena with which the Society deals occur for the
most part sporadically, and cannot be produced to order, and
the conditions of their occurrence are still almost unknown.
A long time has to be spent in the accumulation of apparently
dull and trifling details before any conclusions are reached
which are worth publication. The Society therefore owes a
great debt of gratitude to those of its members who have
assisted by placing at its disposal material showing jirima facie
evidence of supernormal origin, e.g., either in the form of their
own automatic writings, or in carefully annotated records of
sittings with trance mediums or of spontaneous or experimental
thought-transference.
Investigations are being carried on in consultation with our
officers and independently, which promise well. But even
should they prove negative or inconclusive, they may be
instructive as to method, or may point in a fairly decisive
way to a possible explanation of the observed phenomena.
Of experiments and investigations which prove purely incon-
clusive (and in all systematic work there must be such), it is
of course seldom desirable to publish accounts in detail.
An experimental investigation, in which Mrs. Warren Elliot
and other trance-mediums are co-operating and several members
of the Society are assisting, has been for some time in progress.
March, 1927 Annual Report of the Council for 1926 39
It has been rendered financially possible by special donations
from members of the Society, and particularly from one very
generous donor who wishes to remain anonymous. Those
engaged in the work are very hopeful, from what they have
already obtained, of getting results of interest and value ; but
it is likely to take a considerable time to carry out their plans,
and it is not desirable to say much about the investigation
while it is going on.
The Council have made, and are continuing to make, efforts
to get into touch, while the phenomena are actually in pro-
gress, with so-called poltergeist cases—movements of objects,
noises, etc., which seem to be connected with particular
localities or the presence of particular individuals. As these
occurrences are generally known to the local clergy, the Council
caused a letter to be sent to the principal religious papers in
the hope that this would lead to the Society being promptly
notified of any such cases as might occur. We cannot con-
gratulate ourselves on much success so far. The phenomena
are of course rare, and out of all the cases of poltergeists and
haunted houses reported to us during the year only a few
appeared sufficiently promising to be worth visiting by repre-
sentatives of the Society. In none of these cases were pheno-
mena of interest observed. In one " haunted house " where
several members of the Society had opportunities of observation,
the investigators were able to suggest a normal explanation.
Miss Newton's experiments in thought-transference mentioned
in our last report have been reported on by her and by Miss
Jephson, who assisted her throughout. Their report, which is
on the whole disappointing though it presents points of interest,
will be read at a private meeting of the Society and printed
in the Journal. Miss Newton continues experiments of a
preliminary kind at 31 Tavistock Square with any members
of the Society who wish to test or discuss their telepathic or
other psychic powers, and cordially invites members to caU
with this object.
Our members will be interested to hear that Mrs. Piper's
health has sufficiently improved to enable her (with the consent
of our Society) to agree to give a series of sittings under the
auspices of the Boston Society for Psychic Research.
40 Journal of Society for Psychical Research march, 1927
Certain letters and other manuscripts whicli had belonged
to the medium Daniel Dunglas Home, together with photo-
graphs and a model of his hand, were offered to the Society
by a nephew of the late Mr. Alexander N. Aksakoff, now
unfortunately a Russian political refugee. The Council wel-
comed the opportunity of acquiring these documents and relics,
not only for their intrinsic interest, which is considerable, but
also as being in some way a link with Mr. Aksakofi, who at
his death bequeathed a large legacy which was the basis of
our Endowment Fund. Many of the documents have never
been pubUshed, and throw an interesting light on the career
and times of D. D. Home, a fact which members who attended
the Conversazione in November, when Mr. Dingwall exhibited
and explained some of the more important ones, will appreciate.
With them was presented to the Society a large bronze bust
of D. D. Home. A catalogue of the documents has been com-
piled, and can be consulted by members in the Society's rooms.
The increase in applications for membership of the Society
which we were able to report last year has not been main-
tained, and we have fallen back to the number in 1923.
Fifty-nine Members were elected during the year, and one
Associate became a Member Two Associates who resigned
in 1925 cancelled their resignations, and two who were included
in the losses during the same year paid up their arrears of
subscriptions and were reinstated On the other hand, eleven
Members and ten Associates died during the year, thirty-three
Members and twenty Associates resigned, and twelve Members
and four Associates were removed from membership owing to
non-paymeii' of their subscriptions. In the great majority of
cases of resignation the necessity for economy has been given
as the reason. The Secretary reports that the total member-
ship of the Society now stands at 1099, of whom 608 are
Members, and 491 are Associates.
The Council regret to have to record the death of several
members of long standing, including Mr. Desmond Adair,
Professor E. G. Browne, Mr. Henry Holt, Dr. H. L. Noel-Cox,
Professor W. Romaine Newbold (a Corresponding Member),
S. M. la Regina Madre Margherita of Italy, Mrs. H. D. Sedg-
wick, and Mr. E. J. Thomson.
Makch, 1927 Annual Report of the Council for 1926 41
Four Parts of Proceedings were published during the year :
Part 97 in January, Part 98 in June, Part 99 in July and
Part 100 in December. The expenses of printing these Parts
and the monthly Journal amoimted to £764, an increase ^of
more than £150 on the total for last year.
The sales of the Society's publications at half-price to
Members and Associates reahsed £91 Is. lOd., and included
two complete sets of the Proceedings and of the Journal.
The sales to the public, by ]\Ir. Francis Edwards, realised
£73 6s. 9d. net, and in America, by the F. W. Faxon Co.,
£25 12s. 2d.
An exceptional item of expenditure during the year was the
painting of the outside of the house, a recurrent expense under
the terms of the lease. This was done early in the summer
and cost about £80.
The Council once more desire to express their gratitude to
Mr. Sydney C. Scott for the legal advice and assistance that
he has generously given during the year in regard to various
questions arising out of the Society's tenancy of 31 Tavistock
Square.
One General Meeting, four Private Meetings, and one Con-
versazione have" been held during the year.
February 18th. " Some Personal Psychical Experiences and
Experiments," by Dr. Wilham Brown.
^ March 18th. Presidential Address by Dr. Hans Driesch.
Jvine 2nd. " The Psychology of Plotinus, and Its Interest
to the Student of Psychical Research," by Mr. G. W.
Lambert.
July 15th. "One Crowded Hour of Glorious Life," by Mr.
J. G. Piddington.
November 16th. A Conversazione.
December 20th. " A Report on the Alleged Action of
Nervous Effluence in Hypnotism," by Dr. Robert H.
Thouless.
1 General Meeting.
i-H C-lOO OOOOOSNOOOOOur50t> lOOOOCOO-^OiOiOoO
»-( OC-l QOOOOOlOOOOCS-^OoOLCCO 00'-'t^<Mr-iOOcOI>ClOO
CM rH
T-H
0(M • oo
ooo
rH
i» oo
rHC^
Vh COrH
1
=+>
=3 <^ S£
U-i
Ph
>,
o —
mm
.a
3
Ph
2S H^
be
o «j
pHWi
C3
=^ S
<u t- CO
CD ng-t; p
a
a
a C m
S IH
c S
o ci
- c4 c
5 s
°
g a "
en o
C C
O
-a
C -
w C
^ 4; O
C C3 S
-tfi
o
. " o
•4-3
a C C
qJ ca
CO
75 -a c
- = c= 52
^ Cf> CU
"e: g 3 >
CO
S -"3
o « «
5 Si=
o p o
3 o 9
PhQPh
1 ^ o
H-E P -E
00 r-f
r- O
t—
1
\a 00
CO
CO
CO
CI
CO
(M
(M
13 =
Sis o
S .2
CO H*-
^ o 2 5
_ P.M--V
•
S.SO
COD
<s J; o
£ S.S S
.S — —
o
I
o
3
P9-^gi5
^Cpa 3 o
O O C: 'X' C
lO O ""^ ^
^ CO O 00 ^ ^
II^CD i-HCM
CD O O C-l o
O i-H c£ CO O
O CO CO CO
-f CO CO CO
t+1 00
P"
o
CO lO :c
(M CM (M <M
o; c. oi o c-
T-H CO C-5
hH CO i-O
to
g
XS
3 p
S o 5)
S3g£5
e<fi 3 3
CD„[_] O C
S.S c'
3
5 g
So
•3 7^
.s.s
gill'
13 O
53^P=H
=^ r'H r
*
m o
•- P. t
o
•S-3
" 03
C5
I>
rH
o
•
CO
rH
rH CO
CO
c+i
B
o
Tn
5 .
o
+^
C '
ce
<D
3
3
P=(
u<
O C .&
6h
C O)
^ eft
O
Pro Sori
ion
^
+H
3
Co:
•Si c
o
O
e3
«3
H
W
m
<
o
Q
<A
O
Q § «
5w
"
g 3 Q
0) - c
H
g
O
Z
=«
:P3
o
02
SIS
OOOt—(OOOO
= O =3
CS -5 3
too
O K\
21
O O CO
OOOOOOC-IOOO^
O O iC t* O O -JD
C^l 7-1 O X iC ^ O O I
^- Ctj :4 ^- irt C(i « ^ « Cfj
c+! « crt
-i! ^ -i^
0)
o
« o •
T3
II
a3
.5 = IX S
03
'
13
cn CO
loo ^
ill
lO ^ o
P3
C
] c _ 2 = M
c Sii
j^, = o
" ^1 r-^ Gc— a: c;
M (M Crt CiJ M «
Oi
o
o
Co
O
o
g
I
o o
o o lo
CO o
^ tr:
C(J
<
O (h 0)
r-
a 3 3
g o <3
=
H^-
" 2 S
g C3 C
O ^
o
c
P5 P?
M o T—
1
CO ^
^ '—1
in
o o
o <»
5
" £487
B t-l
>
P5
g »r
Q S
P5
°
44 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March, 1927
CORRESPONDENCE.
"THE DIVINING ROD."
To the Editor of The Journal of the S.P.R.
9th January, 1927.
Dear Madam,—May I be allowed to comment on one or two
remarks in the review of The Divining Rod by Sir William Barrett
and myself whicli appeared in Jour. S.P.R. (1927), xxiv. 16 ? I
Your reviewer writes :
" Our authors incline to the last [theory,
that is, cryptesthesia], but he would be a bold man who would
assert that any of the rival hypotheses has been satisfactorily
proved or disproved." On the contrary, while not claiming that
we have proved dowsing to be a phenomenon of cryptesthesia j
(since proof in such a connexion is impossible) we do claim that
we have " proved " dowsing to be insusceptible of a physical
explanation. And if your reviewer questions this claim it would ^
be a matter of the greatest importance and interest to know his
arguments.
Your reviewer refers to the investigations of von Klinckow-
stroem and writes of our " not altogether accurate references
"
to them. Since our reference consists of a verbatim quotatioij
from a letter by von Klinckowstroem I cannot see where the
inaccuracy arises.
Finally, may I very respectfully take exception to the general
tone of the review, which, in my opinion, is hardly worthy of
a book containing the life-work of the chief founder of the S.P.R. ?
It was the considered opinion of Sir William Barrett that " the *
first movement of thought " towards incorporating cryptesthesia 1
into the canon of accepted science " will occur from the impos-
sibility of finding any normal explanation of the phenomena of
dowsing." {The Divining Rod, p. 276.) It therefore comes as
rather a shock to find dowsing described in the organ of the
S.P.R. itself as a " curious by-path of knowledge."
Yours faithfully,
Theodore Bestekman.
Note by the Reviewer.
It cannot often happen that a reviewer is taken to task by an
author on account of a review so preponderantly favourable as
my notice of The Divining Rod.
March, 1927 Correspondence 45
I called dowsing a " curious by-path of knowledge " because
it has no obvious connection with any other branch of recognised
science or psychical research. The intellectual curiosity which
leads distinguished scientists like Sir William Barrett to pursue
such by-paths is a scientific virtue of the highest order.
I do not refer " to the investigations of von Klinckowstroem,"
but to a summary by him in the Journal for April, 1925, of the
investigations of other German scientists. Either these investi-
gations are not referred to at all in The Divining Rod (the
investigators are not mentioned by name in the book), or the
only reference is that on p. 2.50 (" In Germany most students of
this subject," etc.), which entirely misrepresents their views. Either
alternative is a serious blemish in a book of this size and scope.
The positive evidence given in the book for cryptesthesia as
explanatory of dowsing is quite inadequate. Mr. Brown's experi-
ments (pp. 256, 257) do not exclude the possibihty either of tele-
pathy or of normal causes {e.g. unintentional hints from bystanders) :
the Albert Hall experiments do not exclude telepathy. None of
the experiments are in pari materia with dowsing for underground
water or minerals, the locahty of which is not within any person's
normal knowledge.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
The Revue Metapsychique for Nov.-Dec, 1926, has an account by
Dr. Osty of a further series of sittings with the Polish medium
Guzik. The seances took place at the Institute and were very
unequal in quality. Dr. Osty seems inclined to adopt the pro-
visional hypothesis of the genuineness of Guzik's powers, but he
has to admit that as the conditions of control became such as
to lead to a favourable judgment, so the quality of the phenomena
became poorer and their number fewer.
The British Journal of Psychical Research for Jan.-Feb. 1927,
has an account of the early history of Eleonore Ziigun, the
Eoumanian poltergeist girl ; and Dr. E. J. Tillyard contributes
the accounts of two sittings with Margery in 1926. In the
second seance the teleplasm was examined and felt by Dr. Till-
yard. It was " a large mass of peculiar white substance just
like cooked brains." To the touch the mass felt " hke warm
rubber or wax, and was definitely turgid. ..." (159).
46 Journal of Society for Psychical Research imarch, 1927
The Hibbert Journal for January lias a stimulating article on
the drama of death and resurrection by Mr. W. J. Perry of
University College, London, and an interesting sketch by Mrs.
Liveing of Jean Vianney, the Cure of Ars. Although the pol-
tergeist phenomena are not discussed, a good idea is given of
the life of this amazing person.^
The Zeitschrift fiir hritischen Okkultismus (Bd. ii. Heft 2) has
a paper by Count von Klinckowstroem on Nostradamus and a
note by the same author on the history of his experiences in
occultism. Dr. Richard Baerwald has a criticism of the recently
published experiments of Mr. Krall which were undertaken with
a view to testing the Lehmann and Hansen experiments in in-
voluntary whispering. Dr. Baerwald considers in some detail
the astonishing differences observable in the two series of experi-
ments, and comes to the conclusion that Mr. Krall's work cannot
be said to have disproved the factor which was thought so con-
spicuous in the Danish experiments. Count Perovsky-Petrovo-
Solovovo contributes to the same issue a candid criticism of the
recently pubhshed account of the Dunraven sittings with Home.
It is clear that the Count finds himself in considerable difficulties
when he tries to devise normal explanations for the phenomena,
and he is to be congratulated upon his fearless attempt to deal
with the problem and his suggestions that Home occasionally
used a confederate. He admits that during the majority of Home's
seances it was possible for the medium to cheat. The question
remains as to whether he in fact did so, and indeed whether the
admission of wholesale cheating will in any way explain the
manifestations. Finally he records the case of a Russian military
oificer whose desire to believe was so great that he forbade his
^ For those who wish to examine the evidence regarding the phenomena
occurring in the presence of the Cure of Ars, I add here a few references
in chronological order : J. Chantrel, Le Cure cTArs, 5® ed. (Paris, [1859 ?]),
pp. 36-37; D. J., Le Prilre devant le Peuple, 3^ ed. (Lyon, 1861), pp. 483-484;
A. Monnin, Le Cure d'Ars (Paris, 1864), pp. 203 seq., 213 seq. ; G. Molyneux,
The Cure d'Ars, 2nd ed. (London, 1869), pp. 138-157 ; J. Darche, Vie
Tiouvelle da venerable cure d''Ars (Paris, 1870), pp. 218-223 [cautions regarding
the theory of devils] ; E. D. de Givre, Un Cure de campag/ie au XIX*^
Steele (Paris, 1882), ii. pp. 11 seq. ; K. O'Meara, The Ven. J. Baptiste Vianney
(London, 1891), pp. 39-46 ; J. Vianey, The Blessed John Vianney (London,
1906), p. 78 ; H. I. Sevin, Vie illustree du bienheureux J. B. M. Vianney
<Lyon, 1917), p. 55. _ •
.
I
March, 1927 Notes on Periodicals 47
wife to mention tHat she had detected G-uzik in a trick which
explained certain phenomena. Were there not, he asks, a few
such sitters at the Dunraven sittings ?
E. J. D.
REVIEW.
Une faculte de connaissance supra-normale. Pascal Forthuny.
Par Dr. Eugene Osty. Pp. xi. 180. (Paris : Felix Alcan,
1926. 12 francs.)
This book, part of which has been reprinted from the Revue
Metapsychique, is an account of the clairvoyant descriptions given
at the Institut Metapsychique International by the medium
" Pascal Forthuny " [Georges Cochet].
M. Forthuny has for many years been connected with literary
and art journals in Paris, and for some time he was art critic to
Le Matin. Novelist and musician, M. Forthuny moves in the
best Parisian Literary circles, and his knowledge of foreign lan-
guages, among which is Chinese, gained for him a very fair
acquaintance with European and Oriental literatures. In June,
1919, his only son, Frederic, was killed in an aeroplane crash,
and on the 18th of July, 1920, his mediumship conomenced.
Whilst sitting at his desk writing a novel, " his hand suddenly
ceased to obey his conscious thought, and began, as if moved by
some impulsive extraneous force, to make a whole series of strokes
just like a Uttle child at its first writing lesson." With amazement
Forthuny took a sheet of white paper, and, placing his hand upon
it, continued to trace the strokes ; then curves of all sorts ;
soon after letters and then words, although still without any
logical connection. Calling his wife, Forthuny remarked, " Here's
a funny thing. I'm a medium "
(p. 21).
Much intrigued by this occurrence, Forthuny continued his
attempts, and soon intelligible sentences were produced. Answers
to questions were obtained, and two controls appeared, a " guide,"
and His son, Frederic.
The early features of the automatism do not differ in any pro-
nounced respect from those commonly observed. Names and
addresses were given which proved on inquiry to be mere fabrications :
prophecies were made which were never fulfilled. In the winter
of 1921, Forthuny was present at a gathering of people at the
Institute in Paris. A clairvoyante was giving descriptions, and
48 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March, 1927
at one time " Dr. Geley handed a folded letter to this lady
asking her to tell him any impressions that contact with it
suggested to her." M. Forthuny, however, good7humouredly
intercepted the letter saying that this was not difficult, and pro-
ceeded to relate something of no consequence. He then continued
in the way adopted by clairvoyants, but although what he said
had some significance, it was thought to be due to a coincidence.
Wishing for a further test, Madame Geley took a fan and gave
it to M. Forthuny. The medium took it, and jokingly remarked,
" What's this ? I get the sensation of suffocation, and I hear by
the side of me the word filisa." The fan had previously belonged
to an old lady who had died of a lung affection and whose maid
was named ifilisa. In this way were Forthuny's clairvoyant
faculties discovered. His success later induced Dr. Osty to ask
him to demonstrate his powers before a series of meetings at the
Institute. The greater part of the book is taken up with an
account of these meetings, and M. Forthuny's success cannot be
denied. About 1500 persons attended the demonstrations, and
of these 136 were selected by M. Forthuny for experiment. Ac-
cording to Dr. Osty's calculations 33-8% obtained striking successes
in which the medium's statements were wholly or almost wholly
true ;
30-9% were partial successes ; and 13-2% were total
failures. How far the successes can be explained through normal
processes the readers of the book must judge for themselves.
According to M. Forthuny himself, the information is given in a
variety of ways, sometimes visual, sometimes auditory. Although
the visual images are never so vivid as to be classed as hallucina-
tory, the sounds are very clear and appear to originate at some
point within the head. Dr. Osty is to be congratulated upon his
work. It is to be hoped that he will continue his observations
and embody them in a further volume.
E. J. Dingwall.
NOTE.
It is hoped that a statement concerning the recent B.B.C. experi-
ment in telepathy may be printed in the Journal for April.
No. 434.—Vol. XXIV. ^
April, 1927
JOURNAL
I
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NEW MEMBERS.
Balfour, Mrs, R. A. L., l»'edclifF. "Whittingehame, Scotland.
Carruthers, Kenneth St. C, Bridgp ut, Newiiold Street, l.eam-
iiigton Spa.
Grondahl, I. 0., University College, Govver Streef, London, W.C. 1.
Hill, Mrs., 30 Queen's Gate Terrace, London, S.W. 7.
Locke King, Dame E., Brooklands W eybiidge.
Kindred, The Hon. John J., House of Representatives, Wash-
ington, D.C., U.S.A.
Moore, Rev. C. A. G., Turner's Wo id, Chalfont St. Giles, Bucks.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 236tli Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C, on Wednesday, February 23rd, 1927,
at 4 p.m. ; Mr. J. G. Piddington in the chair. There were
also present : Mr. W. R. Bousfield, Sir Lawrence J. Jones,
Bart., Mrs. W. H. Salter, and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick ;
also,
Mr. E. J. Dingwall, Research Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last three Meetings of the Council were
read, and signed as correct.
Seven new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The 237th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C, on Wednesday, March 16th, 1927, at
50 Journal of Society Jor Psychical Research April, 1927
3.30 p.m. ; The Rt. Hon. Gerald W. Balfoue in the chair.
There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mr. W. R.
Bousfield, The Hon. Everard FeUding, Sir Lawrence Jones,
Bart., Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H.
Salter, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick ;
also,
Mr. E. J. Dingwall, Research Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read,
and signed as correct.
The Minutes of the Annual General Meeting were presented,
and signed as correct.
The following were co-opted as Members of Council for the
year 1927: Mr. W. R. Bousfield, Dr. William Brown, Pro-
fessor E. R. Dodds, Professor Julian Huxley, Mr. G. W.
Lambert, and Mr. W. Whately Smith.
Mr. Theodore Besterman was appointed Hon. Librarian to
the Society for the year 1927.
The Monthly Accounts for January, 1927, were presented and
taken as read.
PRIVATE MEETINGS FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES
ONLY.
The 89th Private Meeting for Members and Associates was
held in the Library at 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C., on
Wednesday, February 23rd, 1927, at 5 p.m.. Sir Lawrence
Jones, Bart., in the chair.
Miss Ina Jephson read " A Report on Thought-Transference
Experiments," which was illustrated by Lantern Slides.
A discussion followed, in which several Members who had
joined in the experiments took part.
The 90th Private Meeting for Members and Associates was
held on Wednesday, March 16th, 1927, at 5 p.m., in the
Hastings Hall, at 19b Tavistock Square.
The President gave an informal Report on some of his
experiences during his recent visit to America, including
some sittings with " Margery " ; and a discussion followed.
April, 1927 The Research Ojjicev. 51
THE EESEAECH OFFICER.
Mr. Dingwall's annual appointment as Research Officer having
come to an end on March 25th, the Council decided to allow
the post to lapse for the present. Dr. WooUey continuing as
Hon. Research Officer.
The Council take this opportunity of expressing their apprecia-
tion of the services rendered by Mr. Dingwall dm-ing his five
years of office, and of the keenness and energy mth which he
threw himself into his work.
CHANGE OF LIBRARIAN.
Miss Newton has lately felt that pressure of other duties
prevents her giving as much attention to the Library as would,
in her opinion, be advantageous, and that some rearrangement
and reorganisation of the Library is required. The Council have
therefore gladly accepted the kind olier of a member of the
Society, Mr. Theodore Besterman, to serve as Honorary Librarian
for a time. Our readers will know Mr. Besterman's name as
co-worker with Sir WUliam Barrett in his recently published
book on The Di^dning Rod," and as himself a writer about
crystal-gazing and other tilings.
LIBRARY NOTICE.
To permit of the reorganisation and stocktaking of the Library,
it will be necessary to cause Members and Associates some
temporary inconvenience by calling in all volumes out of the
Library on loan, and to stop the issue of further volumes for
a short time. Books should be returned to the Rooms of
the Society not later than the .30th of April. The date of the
resumption of lending facilities will be announced as soon as
possible.
Theodore Besterman.
Hon. Librarian.
a2
52 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1927
OBITUARY.
Dr. Walter Leaf.
(Died, March 8tli, 1927.)
We have to lament the loss, at the age of seventy-five, of
another distinguished member of the Society who has supported
it for many years. Dr. Leaf, chairman of the Westminster
Bank and of other important business enterprises, a great
scholar and in particular an authority on Homer, was not an
original member of the Society, but he joined it in 1884 and
remained a member until his death. He served on the Council
from 1889 to 1902, and on the Committee of Reference from
1893 to 1922. He took an active part in sittings with Mrs.
Piper—both organising them and himself acting as sitter
—
during her first visit to England in 1889-90, and was respon-
sible for a large section of the Report on her sittings published
in Proceedings, Vol. VI. He contributed other papers of
importance to our Proceedings, the last being a description,
based mainly on a little book by Bjornsen, of the life and
work of "Vis Knut," a Norwegian peasant of the last century,
who appears to have had supernormal powers. This was
published in Proceedings, Vol. XXI. (1908). We also owe to
Dr. Leaf many reviews published in Proceedings.
His own conclusion as to what the evidence accumulated up
to the time of Myers' death in 1901 entitled us to regard as
proved, was set out with care in a review of Human Person-
ality and its Survival of Bodily Death, when that book came out
in 1903. The review will be found in Proc, Vol. XVIIL,
pp. 53-61. What he regards the evidence as pointing to is
(if one may be allowed to put it very shortly), the temporary
survival of a " cluster of memories," to which sensitives may
have access, but which is itself gradually disintegrating. This
cluster of memories he does not regard as a personality.
" To me," he says (p. 61), " personality presents itself mainly
as a limitation—as the barrier which inexorably cuts me off
from those who are nearest and dearest to me, so that they
can never '
know half the reasons why I smile or sigh.' . . .
It is a hope and not a fear that the dissolution of the body
April, 1927 Obituary 53
may mean the dissolution of this spiritual crust as well ; that
one day the infinite which is within us all may have freer
play, and mingle in unconstrained communion with other
spiritual elements equally purged of earthly dross, through
channels infinitely clearer and more translucent than the
imperfect and unsatisfying organs of the mortal frame."
It was probably the feeling that we were moving very
slowly, if at all, in the direction of more definite conclusions,
and that he himself was not likely to be able to do much
to hasten progress, that led him gradually to drop active
work for the Society. But we must always feel him to be
one of those whose work and interest through many years was
of high value to us.
CASE.
L. 1278.
A Telepathic Experience.
We print below a report of what appears to be a telepathic
impression. The case has come to us through Sir Oliver
Lodge, to whom the percipient, Mr. J. P. Hodge, wrote as
follows :
6/// Feh., 1927.
Knowing you to be interested iu thought-transference, I venture
to bring before your notice the following instance. For a number
of years I have been aware that mental impressions reach me
some short while before the spoken word confirms them, but the
case I am about to relate is perhaps the most remarkable.
A few evenings ago I was reading Bullen's Whaleman's Wife,
a romance dealing with the whale-fishery. It contains no refer-
ence to lifeboats.
I was alone, and, rather losing interest in the book, closed my
eyes and fell into a reverie. Almost immediately I pictured
myself at an undefined spot on the English coast, arranging with
a local boatman to take me out in the lifeboat next time there
was a call. The call came, and in the most vivid manner I
mentally visualised the operations of getting the boat out through
the surf, with me crouched down against the after air-box, and
the coxswain standing by shouting his orders to the crew.
Away we went, the spray slashing my unaccustomed face, and
54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Apkil, 1927'
the crew sweating at their oars as the boat, now and again,
awash ahnost to the thwarts, smashed into the waves. It was
all so realistic that I even called myself a pretty considerable
fool for getting soaked to the skin in such an enterprise.
The entry of my wife put an end to the adventure, and brought
me back to material things. She had been in the next room
listening to a wireless talk on the strenuous times in the history
of the lifeboats at certain northern ports, and the heroic conduct
of those engaged in the work of rescue.
To me the whole thing seeins a clear case of thought-trans-
ference, and therefore of sufficient scientific interest to warrant
my trespassing on your valuable time.
Yours faithfully,
J. P. Hodge.
To this letter Sir Oliver Lodge replied on February 9th, 1927,^
to the effect that it would be necessary " to enquire whether
you knew wdiat your w'ife was doing, and the nature of the
wireless talk to which she was listening," and also stating that
he proposed to send Mr. Hodge's letter to the Editor of the
S.P.R. Jom-nal.
On receipt of this letter Mr. Hodge wrote again to Sir
Oliver Lodge as follows :
10//; Feb., 1927.
In reply to your letter of yesterday, I regret that a desire not
to trespass too much on your time shotdd have resulted in my
former letter being deficient in details.
I did not know what my wife was doing, and was under the
impression she was upstairs in a bedroom, instead of which she
was listening (with head-phones) to the talk on lifeboats in the
next room to myself on the ground floor.
The talk was descriptive of the methods of launching the boats
at Newbiggin and Ramsey, and included references to rescue work
done under strenuous conditions in recent gales. In addition^
the lecturer emphasised the dangerous nature of the lifeboatman's
calling, and related a few anecdotes calculated to call up a vivid
mental picture of the proceedings.
My wife was evidently mucli imjiressed, as she came suddenly
into the room in which I sat, and spoke somewhat volubly on
the matter. Tlie whole thing seemed to me more than a coinci-
dence, and the fact of my reading a sea story at the time had
Apeii., 1927 Case 55
ajjparently nothing to do with it, as the book contains no refer-
ence to lifeboats. For a landsman I have a rather unusual
knowledge of ships and rigging, and the description of a whaler
would be c|uite unlikely to lead my thoughts in the direction of
such a highly-specialised type of craft as a lifeboat.
It may perhaps be of interest to record that a few evenings
later I was reading the British Journal of Pliotograplaj, and while
thinking over a problem raised in the correspondence I was also
aimlessly running through a list of second-hand apparatus in the
advertisements ; in fact, thinking of two things at once, as it is
called. It is when my mind is occupied in this dual manner
that it is most receptive to a third impression totally irrelevant
to the others.
In this case I suddenly thought of a friend, a Mrs. B., from
whom I had received a letter a week before, and a few seconds
later my wife, sitting about four feet behind me, said, Have
you answered Mrs. E.'s letter '? " On my asking her why she
had broken a fairly long silence ^vith that question, she stated
she had looked up and seen Mrs. E.'s letter among others on
the mantelpiece. I could not see it from where I sat.
It is curious that my receptiveness to the impressions occurs
only at irregular intervals of varying duration, but during the
past 30 years (I am 52) a sufficient number of instances have
arisen to convince me that telepathy is possible.
About 20 years ago I conducted an experiment in the opposite
direction. The subject was a girl about 22, of a pliable and
somewhat highly-strung temperament. She sat on a piano-stool,
and her male cousin and I sat before her and endeavoured to will
her to do simple things, e.g. walk across the room, touch a
certain ornament, etc. She did 5 out of 7 things required.
The one that impressed me most was when she, sitting with her
back to the piano, rose up and took down the portrait of her
mother from about 7 or 8 other photos on top of the instrument.
As she eventually became overwrought and semi-hysterical we
gave up the experiment, and for this reason I have made no
further attempts.
j p jjodge.
Ou February 16th, 1927, the Editor, Mrs. Salter, wrote to Mr.
Hodge, asking for a personal statement from Mrs. Hodge,
and also asking whether Mr. Hodge had read through the
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1927
wireless programme and might in this way have had some
knowledge of the subject of the talk to which Mrs. Hodge
was listening. To this letter Mr. Hodge replied as follows :
mil Feb., 1927.
In reply to your letter of 16th inst., I have no objection to
your printing the account of my experience in the S.P.R. Jourml,
together with my name, as you say the publication is circulated
privately. It is only in the case of the public Press that I am
chary of publicity, as nowadays the papers are run with an eye
to vulgar self-advertisement and an entire disregard of the feelings
of those whom they persist in dragging into the limelight.
A statement is appended of my wife's share in the proceedings.
As regards your final query, I may say I had not seen the
wireless programme prior to receiving the impression. It was the
extraordinarily vivid mental picture, coinciding with my wife's
listening to the talk, that made me think it of sufficient import-
ance to bother Sir Oliver Lodge, as I felt some diffidence in
approaching him with what he might have considered a trivial
matter. You will doubtless have gathered from my two letters
that I believe telepathy possible. One often sees the word
" supernatural " used in connection with such phenomena, but to
me the word has no meaning, save that it smacks of medieval
superstition. J. P. Hodge.
With this letter was enclosed the following statement from
Mrs. Hodge :
Feb. 20th, 1927.
I beg to state that on the evening in question I, unknown to
my husband, had been listening to a wireless talk on the launch-
ing of the lifeboat at Newbiggin and elsewhere during the recent
severe gales. I was extremely interested in the talk, and immedi-
ately it was concluded I returned to my husband, whom I had
previously left reading a book. On hearing of my description of
the talk he remarked what a curious coincidence it was, as on
my rejoining him I had disturbed a reverie during which he had
participated in some thrilling lifeboat experiences.
M. R. Hodge.
Although the fact that Mr. Hodge had been reading a book
about whale fishery does not seem to account for his vivid
impression of lifeboats, it is worth noting that this may have
April, 1927 Footnote to a Review 57
served as a point de repere for the telepathic impression, assist-
ing its emergence into consciousness.
FOOTNOTE TO A REVIEW.
By Walter Franklin Prince.
Part 100 of the Proceedings has a review of what is termed
" Proceedings of the Boston Society for Psychic Research,"
otherwise the book The Psychic in the House. The shorter occa-
sional publications of the B.S.P.R. are by it termed Bulletins,
and the longer ones, issued as cloth-bound volumes, have no other
designation than their respective titles.
Naturally, I cannot object to the commendation of my book
shown in the review. But I am equally in sympathy with the
criticism that apparatus should have been employed to determine
whether or not certain mysterious sounds were objective in
character, although subjective sounds may, in a given set of
circumstances, be as evidential of some supernormal cause as any
objective ones could be. My neglect was the neglect of my
predecessors, and I shall hope to repair it if such sounds ever
kindly renew themselves in the future.
Nevertheless, I must ask to call attention to a few inadvertences
of the reviewer, else readers will not be properly apprised of what
the book in question contains.
It is not a fact that I was " inclined " to think " that all
these sounds [raps, etc.] were supernormaUy produced." On a
number of pages, as pp. 84, 87, 90, 99, doubt or disbelief in
relation to certain of the sounds is expressed.
And certainly, if I had heard raps only in my of&ce, and there
only when alone, it would as readily have occurred to me that I
heard them because I was alone. The point, emphasized in the
book, is that elsewhere I habitually heard them when in company
of others. The review does not give due recognition to those
features of the complex rapping record which impart to it
significance ; such as the sudden ushering in of a period of raps
by a shower of sounds in a house hitherto quiet at night, the
nearly simultaneous beginning of raps in my office, the sudden
and permanent cessation of the sounds in the office, the seeming
indication of intelligence in connection with the raps, and other
features stated in the book.
58 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1927
It may seem an easy matter to " invalidate " these occurrences
by drawing an imaginary portrait of a temperament quite unlike
my actual one, but it should be explained why, with such a
temperament roused to the point of pop-eyed credulity, and with
other persons in the house still experiencing what my critic terms
" haunting " phenomena, I became unable to hear any more such
sounds, either in the house or the office, alone or in company,
for more than six months, or until the '"
bangs " came. I am
unable to see how Mr. Dingwall's hearing raps for which he has
" no explanation " heljis in the work of invalidation. Why
doesn't he proceed to find out the explanation of his raps, with
the aid of the apparatus which he recommends that I employ ?
Of the remarkable group of occurrences in which the dog
figured, one, and that far from being the most puzzling, is selected,
and it is said :
" Now Prince has yet to show that the dog saw
the apparition at all (his italics)." Why should I show it 1 In
that case I did not allege it. Through two pages I only once
hint that possibly the dog shared the experience of its mistress.
My curiosity was directed to the question why the psychic, after
she saw the dog leap and stand staring, was stimulated to see
an apparition of her grandmother, who had entered her life only
briefly when a child—why her subconscious should fix upon this
almost forgotten gxandmother as a fit object to cause the dog
alarm. As to the suggestion that the dog " suddenly got burnt
"
on the register, it was, I suspect, that of one who does not know
dogs. No dog, burnt on a register, acts in that manner,
—
following the leaping by staring, not toward the register but in
another direction, then showing panic and trying to butt through
a closed door, and refusing to enter that room for a week after-
ward. Of course, if one is at liberty to boil down the details to
"jumped up and howled," then there is left nothing "so peculiar,"
so far as the dog is concerned. But why suppose the burnt nose,
when I myself suggested that the dog might have had a nightmare ?
A number of questions are asked which do not seem to me to
go very deeply into the matter. " Why does the grandmother's
spirit terrify the dog ?
" There are many accounts, some of
them well authenticated, of dogs and cats and horses being
frightened by something apparently seen by them, invisible to
human companions or seen by them as apparitions. Why does
she content herself with one jjeek ? " I don't know, nor why
April, 1927 Footnote to a Revieiv 59
she shouldn't. Nor have I anywhere urged that she did in fact
have one. If she did, her reason is her own business, which I
know no more than I know why a hen crosses the road. I
did think it worth mentioning that the one time in the psychic's
life when she saw an apparition of her grandmother was the one
time when, ex liypothesi, the dog burnt its nose. Perhaps if the
dog burns its nose again, the grandmother hallucination will be
repeated. If it is I shall report it as an interesting psychological
fact, without, I hope, necessarily implying that I incline to a
spiritistic interpretation."
If it could be grasped that when I discuss a theory, I treat it
fairly, including all its implications, it might be seen that such
fairness does not warrant the guess that I am convinced of it
in application to the case discussed. I am perfectly amiable
toward the theory that the crystal visions came by telepathy
from the living and say : "If telepathy is involved, whether
from the living or the dead," etc. But the telepathic hypothesis
has been discussed ad nauseam, and is well understood in applica-
tion to such problems. I had in hand a complication of facts of
a 'prima facie spiritistic appearance, was disposed to give the
spiritistic theory (which I do think has amply earned its right to
the arena) a fair chance if only for a change, not being one of
those who think it a scientific duty to argue for telepathy ever-
lastingly and exclusively, and to give scant attention to any other
possible solution. I am obdurately unrepentant for having done
this, but certainly should never become a spiritist on the basis of
this case alone.
May I once more quote from the review \
" The attraction
that the spiritistic solution has for Prince is well illustrated by
another incident." And that incident is that the psychic saw
an apparition, asked me to stand near the spot where she saw it,
which I did ; I was told that the person unseen by me was touch-
ing me, I felt certain pronounced sensations on a particular
finger, and the psychic without knowledge of this declared that I
"was touched on that finger. I simply reported these facts, and
nowhere said or hinted that I thought that a spirit actually
touched me. Could I have said less, consistently with the truth,
had I been the most obdurate materialist living ? As a matter
of fact I have never fixed upon the spiritistic solution of that odd
incident. Nor have I fixed upon any other. How, then, does this
60 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1927
incident well illustrate the attraction that this theory has for me ?
Is it because I was willing to experiment with the supposed spirit?
Well do I remember the orthodox farewell which Mr. Dingwall
uttered, with all the unction of the faithful (astonishing and well-
nigh upsetting me by his histrionic abilities), when a " spirit " of
luminous cheese-cloth retreated into the cabinet. But I never
supposed that his complaisant " Good-by, Pansy," well illustrated
the attraction that a spiritistic solution had for him.
Readers are so apt to ascribe ill-feeling to even the most care-
fully worded academic discussion that I add that there is none,
either in the criticisms by my former valued office-colleague or in
the exceptions which I have taken. I simply wish it understood
that any argument in the book should be taken with all its
points in combination, and that if some incidents of weaker
evidential character were included consequent upon my desire
to make the record complete, these should be taken in conjunction
with the evidentially stronger ones.
[In his note to my review of his Psychic in the House, which
" is equivalent to a Proceedings, vol. i., of the Boston Society for
Psychic Research " (p. 7), Dr. Prince raises too many questions
to be discussed here. I may point out, however, that Dr. Prince
admits that he fails to appreciate the very relevant point concern-
ing the raps heard by me, and actually suggests that I should
investigate them by instrumental means. Moreover he appears
to put forward a vigorous defence of his position as an advocate
of the spiritistic hypothesis when it has not been attacked. Such
a position is fully justified if the facts warrant its assumption.
Readers of Dr. Prince's will decide this point for themselves.
E.J.D.]
CORRESPONDENCE.
Eleonore ZiiGUN and the National Laboratory op Psychical
Research.
To the Editor of The Journal of the S.P.R.
February 23rd, 1927.
Dear Madam,—Though long a quiescent member of this Society
with no psychical standing or experience, it may yet be pardon-
able on my part to comment on the above topic for the reasons
April, 1927 Correspondence 61
given below. I do not know how the S.P.R. and the National
Laboratory stand to one another, and whether there is the
possibiHty in the future of sympathetic intercourse or of co-
operation between the two bodies ;
but seeing little chance of
ever witnessing any psychical phenomena as a member only of
the former Society, I joined the latter for this purpose. I am a
sceptic in matters psychical, never having had any personal
experience of or first-hand acquaintance with anything of the kind,
nor have I as yet seen any manifestation at a seance under test
conditions. I read fairly diligently the Society's publications, and
consider the evidence brought forward sufficient for the establishment
of some form of telepathy ;
beyond this I cannot go at present,
being one of the doubting Thomases, and a representative of a
probably fairly numerous and increasing class of person, not
credulous by nature and made still more wary by a scientific
training.
The full, clear and interesting Report ^ of the strange happenings
which occurred at the National Laboratory of Psychical Research
last October in connexion with the Roumanian peasant girl,
Eleonore Ziigun, is now to ^hand. It occupies the whole of the
January number of the Proceedings. It is of special interest to
me, as I attended one of the sittings. I paid my guinea and
took my chance, and had the " satisfaction " of seeing nothing.
I do not grudge the payment ; the sitting, negative though it
was, has made the report much more interesting and vivid.
The seance I attended was held in daylight for the most part
on Saturday afternoon, October 9th. Eleonore Ziigun was in my
presence approximately from 2 to 5.30 p.m. This day is dismissed
in four lines in the Report (p. 26), as follows :
No telekinetic phenomena were witnessed on this day, but
several " stigmata " appeared on the child's face and arms
under conditions which precluded the possibility of the girl
making the marks herself.
No " stigmata " appeared during the sitting, and I do not
recollect being told that they were visible that morning, so
presumably they became manifest during the evening after I left.
From a perusal of the Report, this day seems to have been the
most barren of results of those included in the three weeks'
1 Proceeding Nat. Lab. of Psych. Research, Vol. I., Part I, Jan. 1927.
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1927
period of observation at the Laboratory, so my fellow- sitters and
myself had particularly bad luck. My companions in the seance
room consisted of three gentlemen unknown to me—a senior
man, a sceptic who had never yet succeeded in witnessing any
psychic phenomenon under test conditions ; a man of middle age,
a believer in spiritualism ;
and a young man who said he would
have to reconstruct his philosophy of life if these things were
true. Countess Wassilko, Eleonore's rescuer and guardian, was
present for most of the time, and I appreciated this opportunity
of meeting such an interesting, clever and charming lady. I
also had the pleasure of hearing her lecture on Bleonore the
Tuesday following. The Secretary, Miss Kay, was in attendance
the Avhole time, and a fifth man was in the seance room for
some minutes at one period.
We spent a jjleasaut social afternoon, enlivened at times by
some vigorous argument between the senior and middle-aged
gentleman. Before tea Eleonore played with the dog, diabolo,
etc. She also coloured-in some outline drawings under the
guidance of the Countess. I noticed she went behind the pro-
tective screen once at least to get some toy or replace one, and
my eyes were then glued on her, in case anything telekinetic
should happen later. After tea (I think it was after and not
before) we tried to induce phenomena by joining hands round the
table under red light. I had control of Eleonore on one side.
Nothing happened, and the sitting had then to be abandoned.
At the lecture the thought passed through my mind, what a fine
opportunity for some psychical manifestation, as the medium was
present the whole time, but nothing abnormal occurred.
From the Report much of a marvellous and aj)parently genuine
character did happen under test conditions. Even with the
fear of being held hypercritical attention might be called to certain
coincidences noticed in the Report. The " stigmata " appear to be
restricted to the parts of the body which could easily be reached
by the hands or mouth. The marks on the face are likened to
streaks or scratches, and those on the hands and arms to bites,
corresponding to injuries that might have been caused by nails
and teeth respectively. Eleonore was never detected in the act
of self-infliction, and strict watch was apparently kept ; still it
would have been a satisfaction to see these " stigmata " arise
spontaneously with one's own eyes.
^
Aprii,, 1927 Corres'po n dence. 63
The magnetic white letters used for notices on the ground
floor in the entrance were observed by me before I was aware
that they had been connected with startling telekinetic events.
Though it is very unlikely that Eleonore could have had access
to the receptacle in which the spare letters were kept, one wonders
whether sufficient precaution was taken to see that no letter was
ever missing from the notice board itself. As I passed the board,
the detachment of a letter appeared quite a simple matter. As
far as I could see, practically the whole of the premises of 16
Queensberry Place, the home of the Laboratory, is taken up with
Psychical and Spiritualistic Societies of one kind or another.
Believers in Spiritualism are inclined to accept " phenomena
"
without sifting the evidence. The handling of these letters was
not under the control of the Laboratory.
The fiuding by Dr. Tillyard of the magnetic lett-er " C attached
to the case of his pocket-knife is indeed an extraordinary incident.
Presumably it was not there before he had paid his farewell
visit to the Countess and Eleonore at the Laboratory. The
proximity of the medium might therefore be assumed necessary for
its reappearance \n such a novel position. Should the still missing
letter ""
W " suddenly drop on to the deck of the steamer convey-
ing Dr. Tillyard to Xew Zealand, as is (facetiously ?) hoped in the
Eeport (p. 40), a doubting Thomas might be converted to a belief
in telekinesis and related phenomena."
In reading the account of the sudden reappearance of the
lost sapphire ring, as an example of apport," it would have
been more convincing had Eleonore been minutely searched before
the sitting commenced. Apparently this was not done, as no
reference is made to it. When telekinesis or apports are in
question, perhaps all sitters should be required " to turn out their
pockets " before the seance begins.
In conclusion, may I have better luck in obtaining first-hand
evidence should an opportimity again present itself.
JoHX Paekix.
Bl.\ithw.'\.ite, Caelisle.
[Cf. "Notes on Periodicals," beloiv. —Ec]
64 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1927
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
The Sunday Ghronicle of Jan. 16, 1927, prints part of a circular
which has been recently sent to a number of spiritualist organiza-
tions by Mr. John Lewis, of the International Psychic Gazette.
Mr. Lewis suggests that in the recent exposure of the medium
Evans by the Sunday Chronicle, the Committee were in a con-
spiracy to discredit him and did so by " casting around him a
sheet or garment " [in which he was posing as the materialized
figure of " Sister Catherine "']. The circular continues by stating
that the time has arrived when the Public Prosecutor should be
invoked to take proceedings against the Committee for slander
and assault. Mr. Evans declines to be associated with these
suggestions. He admits that he was found as the Committee
has stated, but attributes it to " malignant spirit influences."
The first issue of Revalo Bund for 1927 is now styled the
Zeitschrift fur psychische Forschung. Prof. Schroder has an account
of the late Fritz Grunewald's inquiry into the Talpa [Ziigun]
poltergeist case, and Prof. Walter of Graz discusses an incident
in the mediumship of Frau Silbert to show that in this medium
Waltendorf has indeed a seeress. Dr. Mattiesen concludes his
survey of the appearance of the living in mediumistic trance
communications, and the issue closes with a carefully written
series of notes on periodicals, including Part 100 of the Proceedings.
The Zeitschrift fur Parapsycholoyie for January has an account by
Prof. J. M. Verweyen of Bonn of some sittings with Frau Silbert
of Graz. He appears to have been impressed with what he
observed, and concludes his account as follows :
" No serious
inquirer has the right to pass judgment upon such occult mani-
festations unless he has acquired a sufficient body of experience
through personal observations and contact with such mediums as
Frau Silbert. Personally, I do not hesitate, as man, investigator
and philosopher, to admit the honesty of Frau S. and the genuine-
ness of her mediumistic faculties "
(p. 8). The same issue has a
paper by Dr. Tischner on Hyperaesthesia and Clairvoyance, and
also an article by Prof. Blachcr on the question whether medium-
ship is a growing or declining faculty.
The Proceedings of the National Laboratory of Psychical Research
for January, 1927, has a report " on the telekinetic and other
phenomena witnessed through Eleonore Ziigun," by Mr. Harry
April, 1927 Notes on Periodicals 65
Price. After a short introduction, the alleged supernormal occur-
rences are described, and the results of attempted seance procedure
are discussed. The report closes with a delineation from the
medium's hands by Mr. Jacquin. In his opinion " the nervous
natality or '
psychic '
force in Eleonore Ziigun, instead of being
used by her own personality, is being used by some order of
discarnate being—a discarnate intelUgence of a low order " (59).
The Berliner Tagehlatt of February 20th has an article by one
of the authors of the ""
Dreimannerbuch,'' Dr. Hans Rosen-
busch of Munich. It is entitled " The Exposure of the Roumanian
Devil : Eleonore Ziigun and the Dragon Dracu : the film brings
it out." The article describes how Ziigun and her protectress
the Countess Wassilko were in Munich for the purpose of posing
in film studies of Ziigun's alleged stigmata. Dr. Rosenbusch and
others had some experiences with the medium ; and detailed
evidence is brought forward that the markings were caused by the
medium herself, ably assisted by the Countess, who under the
shield of clever misdirection (which failed in its purpose), tried
to scratch the medium's skin to produce the weals. The Daily
News of Feb. 28th has a report from its correspondent in Berlin
that an action for alleged libel is to be brought against Dr.
Rosenbusch, and six Viennese savants have published a statement
signifying their faith in the Countess and belief in the abnormal
character of Ziigun's skin markings.
The Journal of the American S.P.R. for January has a paper by
Mr. Sudre on " Stigmatism and Ideoplastics," with special reference
to Janet's recently j^ublished book, De Vangoisse a Vextase (Paris,
1926). The volume deals with the religious delirium and accom-
panying phenomena in the woman Madeleine, who was for some
time iinder observation in the Salpetriere. A mild form of
stigmata was present, and during seven years they were observed
about twenty times. Mr. Sudre's method of dealing with the
facts is characteristic of him ; and he gives a clear and per-
suasive accoimt of certain other cases, concluding with the opinion
that it is through these borderland phenomena that the tele-
plastic manifestations can be approached. The issue of the same
Journal for February has a paper by Prof. Driesch on the methods
of theoretical psychical research. The writer insists on the
necessity of the exj^erimenters imposing their conditions on the
medium through the influence of suggestion, and similar devices.
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1927
Prof. Driesch continues with an examination of various facts which
are thought to favour a spiritistic interpretation, but he is care-
ful to distinguish certain phenomena as probably due to some
human faculty, as for example in the case of the medium Ludwig
Kahn, whose billet-reading is " probably not under the influence
of a spirit." In the same number is an article by Mr. Bird on
the " Theoretical Aspect of Apport," and a note by Mr. Sudre on
the Ziigun case, with special references to the alleged apport
phenomena of this medium. '
In the Joiinud of Abnormal and, Social Fsychology for Jan.-
March, 1927, is the much discussed article by Dr. and Mrs.
Rhine on their sitting with Margery. The seance took place on
July 1, 1926, and a description of what was observed is here
published for the first time. The conclusion to which these two
inquirers have been led is that " the whole game was a base and
brazen trickery, carried out cleverly enough under the guise of
spirit manifestations." In sup])ort of this conjecture a number of
arguments are adduced which are further assisted by noting the
inconsistencies which appear only to be explicable on the theory
of fraud. Dr. Rhine's case is a strong one, but what he does
not appear to realise is that almost precisely similar objections
can be raised against the vast majority of all physical mediums
and a goodly percentage of mental subjects. This has long been
recognised by serious investigators, and recent events in Europe
have not conduced to remove or weaken that opinion. Dr.
Rhine hopes that his report will do something " to spare the
name of psychic research some of the ridicule which such spurious
cases bring upon it."" He declares lie has no desire to attack the
Crandons, but merely wishes to distinguish " such fraudulent
activity" from the ''genuine basis of psychic research."
E. J. D.
REVIEW.
La Plante rjai fait les yeux emerveilUs : Le Peyoll (EcJiinocactus
WilUamsii J^em.). By Alexandre Rouliier. Pp. xii.-.37I . Paris:
G. Doin et Cic., 1927. .3-5 fr.
" Hast thou drutik pryoti, or hast thou given it to others
to drink, in order to find out secrets or to discover where
April, 1927 Review 67
stolen or lost articles were ?
" (M. de Leon, Carmino del
Cielo (Mexico, 1611), fol. 111. [Brinton's Trans.]
Although I do not think M. Rouhier quotes the above question
from Father de Leon's Road to Heaven, it will serve to introduce
the reader to the divine plant, or in M. Rouhier's own words,
" la plante qui fait les yens emerveilles." What drug is this
which finds its way to the confessional and which permits the
partaker to solve problems and discover lost articles ?
Peyotl is a small cactus without spines found in Mexico and in
the extreme south of the United States. Its area of growth can
be roughly defined as extending on the north from Deming (New
Mexico) to Corpus Christi ; on the east from Corpus Christi to
Puebla ; on the west from Sombrerete (Zacatecas) to Deming
;
and on the south from Puebla to Sombrerete. In certain localities
the plant grows so abundantly that proper names take their
origin from it, and Seler cites a mission near Villa Lerdo called
" El Santo Nombre de Jesus Peyoites." Peyotl for the most
part appears to grow on desert regions and the lofty " steppes."
It prefers usually arid districts and rocky cliffs, stony slopes and
the sides of mountains denuded of vegetation. Clinging close to
the ground it sprouts in little clusters, the rounded heads of which
spring from one stalk and press the one against the other. The
total length of the cactus can attain 1.5 to 20 cm. at the maxi-
mum. The rounded top is slightly flattened and in the centre
appears a shallow depression. The sides vary according to the
age of the plant, and are more or less irregular.
The Indians of the United States make use of Peyotl in the
dry state. They do not often gather it themselves, more com-
monly buying it from traders who hawk it to the most frequent
consumers. To prepare it for sale a section is cut horizontally
from the upper portion above the neck ; and thus green juicy
slices are obtained, which are then dried in the open air. These
go by the name of " mescal buttons," and it is this form which
has been introduced into general commerce.
The amount of Peyotl which is to be taken in order to pro-
vide the consumer with that artificial paradise which he craves
varies with individuals, and no definite standard can be laid down.
In the intoxication produced two forms are to be distinguished :
the first, one of general over-excitement, but at the same time
of contentment, whilst the second consists of a more or less
68 Journal of Society for Ps^ycliical Research April, 1927
physical idleness and inertia. It is this second phase in which
the consumer becomes conscious of visions in full colour. During
the early doses the pulse slows down, the face becomes rosy and
animated, the eyes quick and brilliant. The subject becomes
talkative and seems exhilarated. Later, if the room is darkened
and the experimenter closes his eyes, the visions commence.
White or violet clouds appear, float seemingly in front of the
eyes and then fade away. Kaleidoscopic compositions follow, and
sometimes vivid points of light, like a meteoric shower, fall from
above in glittering cascades. Endless movements follow ;
rhythmical
pulsations without end. It is the "Genie du Peyotl " which "a
definitivement ouvert les portes d'or de son merveilleux domaine au
'chercheur d'infini.'
"
Whatever may be the truth concerning the alleged supernormal
faculties conferred upon the peyotl drinker, M. Rouhier has not
dealt with them. Perhaps the stories may have sprung from the
undoubted fact of the persistence after consumption of pro-
nounced visual hyperaesthe^^ia. The stimulation of imaginative
activity is also present, but nevertheless the plant's reputation as
an assistant to the sorcerer is widely spread. There appears to
be little doubt that the drug played some part in the growth and
popularity of Nagualism, although M. Rouhier has not attempted
to deal in any detail with this important aspect of the question.
Intoxication played a prominent part in the secret Mexican
rituals, and both levitation and telepathic phenomena were claimed.^
It would seem advisable that some detailed investigation might
be made in this direction. The whole question of the possible
emergence of images telepathically received under the influence
» of drugs deserves to be considered, and no doubt volunteers to
act as subjects could easily be obtained. M. Rouhier has played
his part in providing us with a monograph upon one at least of
the substances which have gained a reputation in this respect,
and he is to be congratulated upon the clearness and order which
characterises his work. B. J. Dingwall.
^
" There is a kind of sorcerers . . . which are as it were sooth-saiers,
they take upon them what forme and figure they please, flying farre through
the aire in a short time, beholding aU that was done. . . . They serve as
conjurers, to teU what hath passed in the farthest partes, before any newes
can come. ... To worke this divination, they shut themselves into a house
and become drunk until they lost their sences, a day after they answered
to that which was demanded." (Grimestone's (?) trans, of J. Acosta's
Historia nat. y. mor. de las Indias (Madrid, ,
1608), Lib. iv., Cap. 26, p. 372.
No. 435.—Vol. XXIV. May, 1927
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD AT
19B TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i,
IN THE GREAT HALL,
ON
FRIDAY, MAY 20th, 1927, at 5 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
"A Report on the Recent B.B.C. Experiment in
Telepathy
WILL BE READ BV
Dr. V. J. WOOLLEY.
N.B. — Visitors ivill be admitted on production ofan i?ivitation card signed
by a Meffiber or Associate. One ticket is enclosed with the Journal
as usual; additional tickets may be obtained by application to the
Secretary, S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, London, IV. C. i. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
70 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May, 1927
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.i
The 235th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, on Thursday, February 17th, at 5 p.m.,
Sir Oliver Lodge in the Chair. There were also present :
The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart.,
Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter,
Dr. F. C. S. Scliiller, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Dr. V. J. Woolley,
and Dr. Maurice Wright ;
also, Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The decision come to by the Council at a previous Meeting
not to re-appoint a Kesearch Officer at present was discussed,
but no further motion on the matter having been raised, the
question dropped.
The question of the reorganisation of the Library was dis-
cussed, and a Committee, consisting of Sir Lawrence Jones,
Mrs. Salter, Mrs. Henry Sidgmck, and Dr. Woolley, with power
to co-opt additional members, was appointed to enquire into
the question.
CASE.
L. 1279. A Book-Test.
We print below a report of a book-test sent to us by Lord
and Lady Grey of Fallodoii. It was obtained at a sitting
with Mrs. Leonard at which they were both present on
December 9th, 1926. There was, unfortunately, a certain
amount of doubt as to the identification of one of the test
books, and it will perhaps make matters clearer for the reader
if we discuss one source of this confusion before describing the
test in detail.
There were on this occasion two ostensible communicators,
Lady Grey's son, Bim, and his father, the late Lord Glen-
conner, and the communicators differed one with another as to
the position of the second test book. The statement made by
Lady Grey's son indicated a book which was found to have no
relevance ; the statement made by Lord Glenconner was open
to two ])ossible interpretations (discussed below), either of
^Accidentally omitted from the April Journal.
Mat, 1927 Case 71
which gave a result of some interest. If therefore we follow
Lord Glenconner's statement one source of confusion will be
eliminated.
The original report of the case was contained in a statement
dictated by Lord Grey, as follows :
A BOOK-TEST
Received at a sitting with Mrs. Leonard on the
9th December, 1926 ;
Lord and Lady Grey of Fallodon present.
Dictated by Lord Grey.
The sitting began by a description of the kind of happiness
which those feel on the other side.
A room with books on both sides of the door was then indi-
cated. We were told to disregard the books on the left and to
concentrate particularly on the books on the right [i.e. to the
right as one enters the room]. To take the third book from the
left on the second shelf from the ground, on page 18. A little
way down the page we should find " a reference to what he made
Feda say at the beginning of this sitting about their particular
kind of hapjjiness." He does uot say that the word " hajjpiness
"
is used, but words expressing what he said about " the opening
out " there : the satisfaction in happiness they have. " It would
especially be their kind of happiness that they speak of uow,
Mrs. Bim."
The book thus clearly indicated is entitled Pictures of Bird
Life. On page 18 nothing appropriate was found ; but on
transposing the figures and referring to page 81, the following
passage occurs in describing the song of the nightingale :
" In passionate intensity it is unrivalled, and its char-
acteristics are so unmistakeable, that once heard it can never
again be mistaken."
On the opposite page, approximately at the corresponding place,
occur the words " an increased range."
In the description of the next book there was confusion, as Bim
said it was two books to the right, and his Father said it was
five books to the left ; that in this book, on page 32, something
would be found si^eciaUy fitting to Lord Grey, " a message that
will especially apply to him."
72 Joitrval of Society for Psychical Research Mat, 1927
The description given left, it doubtful which book was meant,
but pointed to the book indicated being one"" of !^three different
volumes. One of these was clearly irrelevant ; another was Lord
Grey's own book on fishing, and a third was Fishing and
Shooting, by Sydney Buxton. The page given was 32, and on
that page of this last-named book is a description of a corner on
the River Itchen, which had been for many years a j^articularly
favourite place of Lord Grey when fishing ; he had always called
it " The Haystack Corner." On the l^age specified, describing the
spot, it says, " there is always a haystack there."
The directions continue :
" Is there a book about music just
close to it, because, when he was touching this book, he felt
music ? He does not think it is a book about music, but words
meaning music. Perhaps the book has got nothing to do with
music at all, but it has got to do with sounds and harmonies, and
you see something about music on the outside of the book." The
third book from the left of Lord Buxton's book above referred to
has for title : Songs of the Edinburgh Angling Club. There is
no musical notation in it ;
yet it is a book of songs.
(Signed) Pamela Grey.
This statement is an accurate account of the facts.
(Signed) Grey of Fallodon.
I bear witness that the books found were in the position as
stated. I was present at the looking out of the tests.
Phemie Davis.
In reply to this statement the Editor, Mrs. Salter, wrote to
Lady Grey asking for further details as to how the three
volumes mentioned in connexion with the second test were
identified. To this question Lord Grey replied by a statement
dictated on February 22nd. 1927, as follows :
The first direction about the second book was as follows : Bim's
direction was that it was two books to the right of the first
book—this would make it the fifth book from the left. This was
the book which was clearly not relevant. His father said it was
five books to the left (of the first book). Now, the first book
was the third book from the left. In order therefore to get the
fifth book to the left of the first book, it was necessary to pass
over the wooden slat that divides the shelves, and proceed into
Mat, 1927 Case 73
the parallel shelf. The doubt then arose, whether the phrase
" the fifth book from the first " meant that the first book was to
be counted as the beginning. If it was so counted, the second
book indicated would then be Lord Grey's own book on Dry Fly
Fishing. If it was not so counted, the second book would then
be the book immediately beyond Lord Grey's own book, i.e.
Sydney Buston's book Fishing and Shootifig, with a description
on the page cited of the haystack corner.
With regard to the doubt raised by Lord Grey as to whether
the expression " the fifth book from the first
"'
should be
interpreted to mean that the first book was to be counted as
the beginning," two points are worth noting.
(1) Such evidence as has come to our notice seems to
indicate that when communicators identify a book in this way,
e.g. by saying that it is " the fifth from the first," they do
not intend the first book to be reckoned in the count. An
example of this is to be found in Mrs. Sidgwick's " An Exami-
nation of Book-Tests," Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXXL, p. 278 :
Feda reports A. W. V. [the communicator] as saying :
" The
fifth book, not the fifth from the first, but counting the first."
This statement seems clearly to imply that if the expression
"the fifth from the first" had been used, the first book
should not have been included in the count.
(2) Quite apart from evidence as to the practice obtaining in
this matter at sittings with Mrs. Leonard, it seems to us more
natural to interpret the words " the fifth from the first " to
mean that the first book is not to be reckoned in the count,
and it is to be observed that that is apparently the way in
which Lord Grey himself interpreted the similar directions given
by Bim above (see Lord Grey's statement of February 22nd,
1927).
If then we take it that when the communicator stated that
the second test book was five books to the left of the first
test book, he did not intend the first test book to be reckoned
in the count, the volume thus identified is Sydney Buxton's
book. Fishing and Shooting, on p. 32 of which was found
a statement having a close personal association for Lord
Grey.
74 Jourruil of Society for Psychical Re.'^earch may, 1927
THE D. D. HOME COLLECTION.
The Society has recently acquired through the heirs of the late
D. D. Home a collection of MSS. and other objects belonging
to the medium and his second wife.
It consists in the main of letters to D. D. Home, of which
there are over seven hundred, including correspondence from
Sir William Crookes, Allan Kardec, Mrs. Lyon J. Bundy, F. H.
Willis, W. M. Wilkinson, etc. Among other exhibits are the
original M8S. of Mrs. Home's two books, D. D. Home : His
Life and Mission and The Gift of D. D. Home ; an unjniblished
MS. by Home on the "Modern Spiritual Manifestations"; a
collection of photographs both of the medium and men and
women of his time ; a number of records of sittings with
Home, of which some are unj)ublished ; a large bust of the
medium and a cast of his left hand.
A catalogue has been prepared and may be seen shortly at
the Society's Rooms.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
The ZeilscJinft fur pxt/cJiisciie Forschung for February has an article
by Prof, [of Theology] Richard Hoffmann of Vienna on his
experiences in four .sittings with the medium Rudi Schneider in
Braunau, where the young man's parents live. Prof. Hoffmann
appears to have had the phenomena usually associated with this
medium, which comprise movements of the curtain, telekinesis, and
materialisations. The seances took place in July 1924, and at the
first the movements of the curtain, whilst the Professor held Rudi's
hands and controlled his feet, were so curious that they brought
instant conviction owing to the conditions of control (" ein fiir
mich sogleich absolut einwandfreies Phanomen," p. 48). The issue
closes with a continuation of Karl du Prel's psychic novel, " Das
Kreuz am Ferner."
The Congregational Quarterly for January has a short paper by
Mr. J. A. Hill on Spiritualism and Psychical Research. The
writer records how, through his own personal experiences, he
became convinced that survival of bodily death is a fact, and that
communication is sometimes possible. He gives a few examples
of evidential communications, and, after illustrating his thesis by
a few specimens of apparitions seen at the moment of death, he
May, 1927 Notes on Periodicals 75
closes with the opinion that psychical research is giving the death-
blow to materialism. " Our evidence," he writes, " makes
materialism scientifically untenable." It establishes the existence
of a spiritual world, and supplies the religious man with a
foundation for his religion.
The Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie for February has a short
account by Prof. Ludwig Jahn of a new clairvoyant medium in
Cologne, Mr. Fritz Fastenrath. His work has been known since
1924, and he combines the alleged faculty of clairvoyance with
medical diagnosis. Not only does he describe the ailments of his
patients, but when writing to them he describes accurately the
contents of their houses. In the same issue is a critical review by
Dr. Marcinowsky of Dr. Hellwig's recently published Okkultismus
u. Wissenschaft, and a note by Dr. Kauders on what he describes
as the " materialisation " of a finger which was observed in 1.556.
Dr. Kauders does not appear to give the source of his information,
but those who are interested will find it in Richard Hakluyt's
The Priricipal Navigations, Voyages, Traffiques and Discoveries of the
English Nation (London, 1599), i. 312 seq. Richard Johnson is
describing certain incidents observed among the Samoeds. At a
meeting, or what we should probably call a seance, the priest or
medium became " as it were madde." Then he took a sword
" of a cubite and a spanne long," and thrust it into his belly,
but no wound was visible.^ After this the priest took his seat
upon a sort of low stool and his head and left arm were tied up
with a long line, which was held on either side. A large gown
was thrown over the whole, and when the line was pulled the
knots disappeared and an object was heard to fall into a kettle
of hot water which the priest had with him : this object was
supposed to be the priest's head, shoulder and left arm, but
Johnson was not allowed to verify this phenomenon. Instead of
this marvel all that was vouchsafed was a finger which was thrust
out of the gown twice " and there was no hole to be seene."
Johnson does not add that he agrees with Dr. Kauders' opinion
as to its being materialized.
The Revue Metapsychique for Janvier-Fevrier has a paper by
Dr. Xavier de Watraszewski on the alleged clairvoyant faculties of
the Polish medium, Miss M. Sabira. The phenomena appear to
be of a remarkable character and simple to control. The medium
This feat is commonly reported of Shamans.
76 Journal of Society for Psychical Researclt May, 1927
is seated before a table and a pile of sealed letters, boxes and
packets are placed before her. She takes up each object, places
it against her forehead, and gazing into a small crystal ball,
describes with an extraordinary accuracy the contents of the
various sealed packets. In addition to her clairvoyant powers,
Dr. Watraszewski affirms that both psychometry and medical
diagnosis have been successful, the latter statement being confirmed
by a medical colleague from the Saint-Lazare hospital in Warsaw.
In the same issue Mr. C. de Vesme has the first part of an
article on the role of supernormal phenomena in the origin of
religious beliefs. Whilst criticising the various anthropological
schools of thought, he admits the importance of the mass of
material gathered together, but complains that, whereas many of
the more startling facts are believed and repeated by anthro-
pologists, the facts relating to alleged supernormal occurrences are
almost everywhere rejected. Mr. de Vesme has raised a suggestive
point, and he cannot be unaware that the practice of blindly
following authorities in both anthropology and psychical research
is one to be condemned, and one which already shows signs of
being discarded. E. J. D.
REVIEW.
Die parapsycholocfiscJien Erseheinungen. Von Willy K. Jaschke.
Pp. 85. Miinchen, 1927.
This booklet, with a foreword by Dr. Franz Wetzel, is a short
account of psychical phenomena, written from the point of view
of one who appears to be convinced that there exist supernormal
phenomena which are hitherto inex^^licable.
The author divides his material into three parts. In the first
he deals with " j^sychical phenomena," in which he includes
telepathy, clairvoyance, and the various groups of motor auto-
matisms ; in the second the physical phenomena are discussed ;
and in the third the various theories are briefly considered.
B. J. D.
No. 436.—Vol. XXIV., .June, 1927
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Pri\ ate Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE. LONDON, W.C. i,
ON
FRIDAY, JULY &h, 1927, at 5 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" An Experiment in Pseudo-Scripts
"
WILL BE READ BV
Mr. W. H. SALTER.
N.B.
—
A'o Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates ivill be admitted on signing their names at the door.
78 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, ii)27
NEW MEMBEES.
Ashton, Frederick, 188 AVanstead Park Koad, Ilford, Essex.
Foot, Miss Katharine, -^1 Brookfield Mansions, West Hill,
Londc)!!, N. (i.
Phillimore, Miss Mercy, 16 Q,ueeiisl)eriy Place, South Kensington,
L(ind(in, S.AA'. 7.
Pollock, The Hon. Mrs. Dlghton, 13 Kensington Park Gardens,
I^ondon, AA'. 1 1
.
Wilkinson, The Rev. D. H. D., 45 Clifford Koad, New Barnet,
Hei-ts.
Wilson, T. S., Darby Road, Grassendale, Li\'erpool.
Wroe, Miss Lottie, Ness, Neston, Nr. Birkenhead.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The .238th Meeting of the Council wavS held at 31 Tavistock
Sqiiare, London, W.C., on Friday, May 20th, 1927, at 5 p.m. :
Mr. J. G. PiDDiNGTON in the Chair. There were also present
:
Mr. AV. AV. Baggally, The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. Mr. E. N.
Bennett, Professor E. R. Dodds, Sir Lawi'ence J. Jones, Bart.,
Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J. AVooUey ; also Mr. T. Bester-
man, Hon. Librarian, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read,
and signed as correct.
Seven new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above. The Monthly Accounts for March and April,
1927, were presented and taken as read.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 171st General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Great Hall, 19b Tavistock Square, London, W.C., on Friday,
May 20th, 1927, at 5 p.m., Sir Oliver Lodge in the chair.
Dr. V. J. WooLLEY read " A Report on the recent B.B.C.
Experiment in Telepathy," and a discussion followed. It is
hoped that the Report will be published later in Proceedings.
June, i'j27 Report on Experiments in Thoioght Transference 79
A REPORT ON EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT
TRANSFERENCE.!
By Miss Ixa Jephso]s\
Allusion has been made in three of the C'ouncirs Annual
Reports to the long series of experiments in thought trans-
ference at the Society's rooms, which have been carried out
under Miss Newton's direction. Since the summer of 1925
Miss New^ton has been too much occupied in other ways to
continue the experiments systematically ; so this seems a good
moment to report briefly on what has been done.
The experiments began in May 1923. Miss Newton's inten-
tion in initiating them was not so much to add to the actual
evidence for telepathy as to find out, if possible, more about
the conditions favourable to it. But in this regard the results
are disappointing : doubtless because no markedly good agents
or percipients revealed themselves, and there have not been
enough successful results on which to base conclusions. The
conditions which make for success must obviously be most
difficult to recognise where so many of the elements involved
are psychological, unknown, or possibly even unknowable either
at the time or afterwards.
The experimenters met at the Society's rooms some forty-two
times from May 1923 to June 1925. The largest number
present on any one occasion was eight, and on manv occasions
there were only two present. Indeed at first and not infre-
quently afterwards Miss Newton and I were the only experi-
menters.
As regards conditions—at the beginning of the series the
experiments were all with " contact." That is to say that
when trying to transfer the chosen idea I put my hand on
Miss Newton's or vice versa. This arose from my having a
tradition at the time that contact had helped in other experi-
ments which I had done previously to these at the S.P.R.
However, we soon came to think contact did not affect the
success or failure, and abandoned it. After this short series
^ This paper was read at a private meeting uf the Society on February
23, 1927. It was on that occasion illustrated by lantern slides.
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, ii>27
of contact experiments members of the Society willing to test
their telepathic powers were invited to join in the experiments,
and in all twenty-nine persons took part.
At almost every one of the forty-two meetings several experi-
ments were tried between would-be agents and percipients in
the same or, occasionally, adjoining rooms, and the whole
number of such experiments amounted to over 350. Further,
to get the number of telepathic impressions aimed at, each
experiment must be multiplied by the number of would-be
percipients engaged in it, and this gives us some 625 experi-
ments. But this number is an understatement, because some
of the cards on which the impressions were recorded have been
lost, and others wasted because the percipients omitted to
number and date them, and later, owing to an accident,
they were mixed up. We should probably be safe in
estimating the number of impressions at about 675. As out of
these we only regard twenty-five as successes,^ and perhaps
about the same number as partial successes, it is clear that
telepathy did not manifest itself to any large extent. In
addition to experiments with agents and percipients in the
same or adjoining rooms, twenty-four were made with agents
and percipients in different parts of the country. These we
will deal with separately.
With regard to conditions : throughoiit the experiments an
easy informality was aimed at, as it was thought that anything
more stiff and solemn might tend to inhibit the emergence of
telepathy. The experiments were in fact treated as in a sense
preliminary, to be made more formal when the ideal agent and
percipient or conditions were discovered. But, notwithstanding
the informality, pains were taken in placing the percipients and
agents to make it impossible for the percipient to see any card
or object held by the agent, and comjjlete silence was main-
1 The line between successes and partial successes is a vague one, and
would probably be drawn differently by different people. For the impressions
reckoned as successes are themselves never, except in one or two very simple
cases, completely successful. They are in fact really only partial successes,
as will be seen from examples quoted below. What we mean by " success
"
is merely agreement between impressions of agent and percipient greater
than one would expect to occur by chance, whereas our " partial successes
"
l^erhaps agree in a minor particular only.
June, 1927 Report of Experiments in Thought Transference 81
tained when the agent had selected the subject intended to be
transferred. Only once (May 11, 1925) among the impressions
reckoned as successful was there any fear that owing to their
relative positions the percipient might have seen the agent's
card. The agent, Prof, de G}ti, thought of a chair, and drew
one roughly on the card he held in his hand. The percipient
drew a chair in the same position as the agent's, but not other-
wise resembling it, and she was not aware of having seen the
drawing, and there was absolutely no reason for supposing the
percipient to have looked at the agent's drawing, but I remember
we thought at the time we had not been quite careful enough.
All the experimenters acted both as agents and percipients, and
variations were tried, such as all acting as agents except one
as percipient, and of course the contrary, namely, one as agent
and the rest as percipients. Experiments were tried on the
plan of Professor Gilbert Murray's, though without success, and
in other unsuccessful experiments the agent or agents were in
a different room from the percipients. A considerable variety
of subjects in different classes were used for the attempted
transfers, viz. :
(a) Picture postcards drawn from a large and varied stock,
and other similar pictures looked at by the agent.
(6) Actual objects looked at.
(c) Scenes or objects mentally visualised.
{d) Ideas of such things without intentional \asualisation.
{e) So-called diagrams looked at by agents, i.e. either mean-
ingless combinations of lines, or simple outline drawings,
or shapes in coloured paper pasted on to cards (as
example, a green shamrock or a gold crown on a black
card), or single capital letters.
{f) Numbers thought of.
{g) Pla^nng cards.
(h) A word or name.
{i) Imagined sounds.
(j) Imagined colours.
(k) Imagined tastes.
(?) Imagined emotions.
The percipient was as a rule told beforehand which of the
-above classes the subject selected by the agent would belong to.
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, 1927
Tlie agents tried different plans at different times for trans-
mitting the impression desired—as e.g. gazing fixedly at it, or
thinking hard about it, or on the other hand getting only a
transient glimpse of it, or after deciding and noting down what
it was to be, not keeping the mind fixed on it at all. But, as
already said, the experimenters were not able to draw inferences
of importance from the medley of results, though individual
agents or percipients may perhaps have gathered some few
hints for their own future use. There is one thing perhaps
worth saying about pictures looked at by the agents
(class (a) above). The number of experiments in trans-
ferring these pictures (mostly postcards) was fairly large
—
about 100 — and the number of impressions recorded by per-
cipients of course much larger, there being often several
percipients. Of these, 8 impressions have been counted as
successful. But it seems certain that in none of them was the
image of the postcard as seen by the percipient clear and
distinct. Examples will illustrate this. On January 11, 1924,
the agent. Mr. Duff, had before him a postcard photo-
graph of the " Dying Gladiator.'' The percipients—there
were four—all knew that the agent was looking at a picture
postcard, but the impressions of three of them were hopelessly
wrong. The fourth was mine: I noted on my card, "A grey
and white card, an interior, I think of a grey stone effigy
under the light of a window, in a church perhaps. There is
something still about it.
"
Now an effigy is a recumbent
statue, and the " Dying Gladiator " is a nearly recumbent
statue. This is the only occasion in the w^hole series of
experiments when either an effigy or the Dying Gladiator or
any other recumbent statue was thought of by an agent or
referred to by a percipient, and it is a curious coincidence if
they were associated by pure chance. Yet if I had clearly
visualized the picture 1 shoiild surely have recognised the
statue, which I know very well, and indeed must often have
drawn, and not referred to it vaguely as an effigy.
Again, on June "27, 1923, I gave a fair though imperfect
description as regards line, form, and light and shade of ^
a
postcard photograph of palm-trees at Hyeres, but without
having the slightest idea that it represented trees, etc., " Some-
June, 1927 Report of Experiments in Thought Transference S3
thing going ofi into perspective one beMnd the other, the dark
comes across at an angle with the Ught, black and white, no
colour above, something like fingers spread out."" In the
postcard the branches of the palm trees suggest spread-out
fingers.
In another case January 26, 1925, Miss Newton as percipient
appeared as it were to get fragments of the picture and
fragments of interpretation. I was the agent, and had before
me a postcard representing an " Indian encampment, Ontario,
Canada." Miss Newton wrote on her card, " First thought,
in a flash : something straight in the sea : a pier. Afterwards,
when in a drowsy state, a shape like this . The form
of the land in the picture easily suggests a pier projecting
into a lake, and the shape afterwards seen is like that of
the Indian tents.
The efforts to transfer scenes or objects mentally visualised
or ideas of scenes or objects without deliberate visualisation
were together about the same in number as the actual pictures
and about equally successful, or rather, unsuccessful. We may
perhaps count 7 as successes. Here is one of January 18,
1924. The agent. Miss Candler, wrote on her card, " The Alps
at sunset in thunderstorm seen from Jura. Blood red moun-
tains against black sky, feeling of wrath of God." The
percipient, who was myself, wrote : "I imagine a volcano or
something on fire—dark foreground. I feel as if I was watching
a fire or earthquake or something where one would be a
helpless spectator—a thunderstorm." It seems that except in
the fiery appearance the visual part of this impression was not
transferred, or at least we have no evidence that it was.
What got through was the thunderstorm and the emotional
effect. In the following case, again, on January 19, 1925, the
general idea in a complicated imagined event seems to have
got itself transferred with some idea of the locality. Miss
Boucher James as agent thought of "a fur coat, brown and
warm, trying on in the shop, sale-time, Derry & Toms."" One
of the percipients, Mrs. George, got " Moving crowds of people,
shops, noise (High Street, Kensington)."" The brackets indicate
that Mrs. George did not mention her impression of High
Street, Kensington, which is where Derry & Toms' shop is
84 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, 1927
situated, till after slie had been told what the subject was.
It will be noticed that it was only the last part of the agent's
idea which was connected with the percipient's.
A visualised subject of a different character was the following.
Miss Button, as agent, on February 25, 1924. thought of " a
large white cat with green eyes, purring,"" and drew in pencil
on her card a rough sketch of such a cat facing the spectator.
Miss Newton, as percipient, wrote down, " A Box, a block of
granite. Cushion. Then a light gleaming between the fork of
a tree in the garden [Tavistock Square] reminds me of the
Cheshire cat, and I think of a cat on a cushion, its paws
turned in." I myself, who was another of the percipients,
wrote down, " an animal, a cat with its back to you. I
imagine Miss Dutton is thinking of something at home."
From this we may pass to the experiments in which agent
and percipient were in different counties. During the week
following the cat experiment Miss Dutton returned to her home
in Devonshire, and it was arranged that at a fixed hour on
March 3, 1924, she should try from there to impress the
experimenters in Tavistock Square. She gazed at " a brass
bell bright gold where light touches, dark shadows in the
under-cutting. Ringing, rmging, ringing. Yet it is not really
a bell, but an inkstand and dire accidents have happened
with ink from attempts to ring it. I hope you get it." Miss
Dutton posted the same day a rough sketch of the bell in-
dicating the embossed pattern on it. Miss Newton, a percipient,
wrote, " Sudden '
Ding dong bell, pussy's in the well,' " and
afterwards annotated this :
" There was nothing in my mind
to account for the sudden intrusion of '
Ding dong bell,
Pussy's in the well.' The well reminded me of the green and
well at L and I added [this as] the second impression."
That she should have had for the only time in the series an
impression of a ringing bell when the agent was trying to
suggest a bell was certainly remarkable.
In all some 24 experiments were made either to receive
impressions from Miss Dutton from Devonshire or to transmit
them to her, or to the Misses Tipping ^ at Leamington. But
^ It will be remembered that telepathic experiments by the Misses Tipping
some years ago have been published in Proceedings, vol. xxvii. pp. A\5A51n.
June, 1927 Report on Experiments in Thought Travsferencc So
there was no furtiier success, unless we count as such an
impression of "a brilliant red square " received (among others)
by INIiss L. Tipping on Nov. 3, 1924, when several agents at
Tavistock Square were trving to transmit the idea. " a gas
fii-e."' The percipient's description is correct, though inadequate,
of the kind of gas fire in the room where the agents were
sitting. One curious thing happened, however, in the course
of these " distant " experiments. On November 10. 1921:,
Miss Newton and four others sitting in Miss Newton's
room at 31 Ta\astock Square, were trying to transmit to the
J\Iisses Tipping at Leamington a picture of a Russian peasant
woman. The picture was not transferred, but among im-
pressions recorded by Miss Tipping appeared a bowl with
gold fish in it, very lit up so that the fish appear very
bright." Miss Newton recorded when she received Miss
Tipping's note that during the experiment on November 10,
she had looked up at the hanging electric light bowl which was
lit up in her room,^ and had a momentary vision of very red
gold fish swimming about in it."' "Again, seeing the bowl
reflected in the looking glass over the mantelpiece I thought
of it as a bowl of gold fish several times during the experi-
ments. The idea occurred to me [and] I could not get rid of
it. I do not remember ever having thought of gold fish in
connection with this electric fitting before, nor do I know of
anything that might have led me to think of a bowl of gold
fish that day." This note was unfortunately not made at the
time because the recurrent impression seemed irrelevant to the
experiment in hand, irrelevant to the pictilre Miss Newton and
the agents were trying to transfer. Were Miss Newton's and
Miss L. Tipping's impression of goldfish telepathicaUy connected,
or were they not ? And if they were, with which did the
impression originate ? The fact that Mrs. Leonard's Feda has
apparently shown telepathic knowledge of thoughts of Miss
Newton's certainly not intentionally transferred (see Proceedings,
Vol. XXXVI, pp. 192 j^.) suggests that another sensitive (Miss
Tipping) may have had similar access to her mind. On the
other hand the peculiar nature of Miss Newton's impression
The fitting is a round alabaster bowl, hangina under the lamp, nhk-h it
•conceals.
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, 1927
on this occasion suggests some origin outside. The coincidence
may, of course, be accidental ; but if so, it is an odd
one.
There are instances in this series of experiments when ideas
which had earlier been in the agent's mind, but which she
had no intention of transmitting, occurred to the percipient.
Thus on December 15, 1924, I myself as agent visualised " a
fat woman talking fast (the cook I had just been interviewing)."
Mrs. Enthoven, one of the percipients, said, " Candied slices
of orange, a grocer's shop, large. I saw mentally Miss Jephson
in a grocer's shop thoroughly enjoying her inspection of good
things." On this I annotated, " I had just been in a grocer's
shop, and as a matter of fact I had specially noticed the grocer
as he was such a gloriously typical one.'" Again, on November
30, 1923, the agent, Miss Boucher James, thought of " Biskra
and the palm trees. The endless reach of the desert, the
[distant] mountains. The slow roll of the camels. I centre on
the palms and the mountains in the distance."' Miss Newton
as one of the percipients said, " A very high cliff by the sea
seen from the top. Measles." She said she noted the last
word because she " could find no association with it."" The
agent then said she had received a letter the night before
from an old servant, who was just about to come and look
after her for a time, saying she couldn't come as her little boy
had measles, and [this] had been in her mind all the morning.
Another form of an earlier idea obtruding itself occurred
when a card looked at by the agent, but rejected in favour of
another for the purpose of the experiment, prevailed over the
selected one. This appeared to happen on one or two occasions,
though it was not quite certain.
Headers of this report will, I think, admit that some
interesting and at any rate suggestive correspondences occurred
in the course of the experiments, and that there may have
been some telepathy at work. But the very large proportion
of failures makes it impossible to feel sure that the suc-
cesses or most of them may not have been due to chance.
It is clear that there were no strikingly good combinations of
agents and percipients among the experimenters.
As a contrast I will give a short series which occurred a
Jlne, 19i'7 Report on E'xperiment'^ in Thought Transference 8/
year after the experiments I have been describing ended, bnt
which in spite of its promise also ended disappointingly.
A Miss S., who had lately become interested in the work of
the Society, called on Miss Newton on June 24. 1926, and they
agreed to try for thought transference then and there. Miss
Newton (agent throughout) sat behind Miss S. (percipient)
without contact and recorded each experiment as it occurred.
There were twelve. In the first two the agent drew simple
diagrams."' The percipient had no impressions.
Experiment 3. Agent says, " Now I will think of some actual
thing I have seen," and notes " Russian Ballet." 3Iiss S.
speaks at once, " Russian Ballet."" The percipient had not
seen it this season.
Experiment 4. Agent writes, " A summer house in a garden."
Percipient says "Flower Show."" Agent asks, "What do you
see ?
'"'
The percipient says, " Flowers. . . . Garden of Flowers."'
Experiment 5. Agent writes, " Italian blue sky, simshine,
oranges growing up the side of a pergola, blue sea showing
through."' Percipient says, " Sea and blue sky." Agent asks,
"What else?" Percipient, "Boat."" Agent, " What country ?
"
Percipient, " Italy." Agent, " Anything else ?
""
Percipient,
" Gentians ? Vines ? Olives ? [Evidently guessing]."'
ExjJeriment 6. Agent looks at postcard portrait of Edmund
Burke. Percipient has no impression.
Experiment la. Agent says, " I will think of a number,'"
and notes "27." Percipient says quickly "27.""
Experiment lb. Agent thinks of 8, and a cipher slips into
her mind causing confusion. She writes 08. Percipient says
"58."
Experiment 8. Agent says, " I will think of three numbers,""
and notes " 157."" Percipient says " 123.""
Experiment 9. Agent says, " I will think of a letter of the
alphabet," and notes "M." Percipient says quickly. "M.
"
Experiments 10, 11, 12. Agent records "Three other experi-
ments were tried. Percipient '
guessed '
each time and was
wrong."'
Possibly fatigue may account for these last three failures,
but however this may be, the success of the series was brilliant
as thought transference experiments go, and considerable hopes
88 Journal of Society for Psychical Research .tlnk, i;i27
were founded on it. Unfortunately, however, a further attempt
was a complete failure ; we cannot tell why. But it may be
noted that a third person was present and the conditions were
formal. Miss S. is sensitive and diffident about her jjowers,
and was doubtless nervous, and this may have prevented her
consciously apprehending telepathic impressions. And the same
causes may have operated in the agent and prevented trans-
mission. There has unfortunately been no further opportunity
of experimenting with Miss iS., but she has recently agreed to
come and try again with Miss Newton, and I am hoping also
to try some experiments with her privately.
CORRESPONDENCE.
Concerning Lord Dunraven's Sittings with D. D. Home.
To the Editor of The Journal of the S.P.R.
March 18, 1927.
Dear Madam,—I am much obliged to E.J.D. for his review of
my paper in Zeitschrift fur Kritischen OkkuUismus on the late
Lord Dunraven's sittings with D. D. Home.^
I do not think, however, he is right when he states that " it
is clear that the Count finds himself in considerable difficulties
when he tries to devise normal explanations for the phenomena."
On the contrary, for the majority of these phenomena at any rate,
I find no difficulties in such an hypothesis after reading the
Dunraven account. For that account shows us that D. D. Home
was practically at liberty to act as he liked, moving freely about
the room and even leaving the room ; it shows us that the
eye-witnesses attached to absolutely non-evidential if [not absurd ^
trance-addresses the same importance as to conclusive phenomena ;
it shows also that in the great majority of cases, practically
precautions were taken against trickery. It gives us the perfectly
legitimate right to conclude that in some cases ^ Home could have
introduced a confederate without much difficulty. In short, the
great value of Lord Dunraven's " Experiences in Spiritualism
"
lies in the fact, that they j^rove to us quite conclusively that in
1 S.P.R. Jour., March, 1927, p. 46. ^ Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXXV., pp. 144, 158.
''I have in particular in view such seances as those of February 9, 1869,
and July 7, 1869 {op. cit. pp. 173, 278).
JuxE, 1927 Correspondence 89
nineteen cases out of twenty, Home could have cheated if he had
wished to. And since there is every reason to suppose that Home's
other seances were not different in quality from those described
by Lord Dunraven, the same contention will hold good for the
whole of Home's performances.
From this point of view Lord Dunraven's notes and letters
deal Home's reputation as a powerful physical medium, in my
opinion, a heavy blow. He appears to us as controlling and
directing the sittings ;
precautions against fraud are either non-
existent practically, or obviously inadequate ; omissions appear in
the accounts which prove that the observers had no idea of the
conditions required to make an experiment even relatively con-
vincing, etc. Under these circumstances the great bulk of D. D.
Home's phenomena must be thrown overboard. For surely we
cannot make their genuineness depend on the assumption that
Home did not ivish to cheat.
A certain residuum of phenomena, not easily explicable, will
remain. But, though in their case I have no ready explanation
to offer, they seem to me somewhat vitiated by their association,
with so many other " manifestations " of which the explanation
may well lie on the surface.
As for the sitters, I am beginning to think that much delusion
in this region is due to them. There are many sitters whose
share in complicating the problem is inferior only to that of the
medium himself ! I hasten to add, that I certainly do not think
that the late Lord Dunraven was such a one. But his account,
candid as it is, presents us with such a picture of the conditions
prevailing at Home's seances, that the evidential value of even
some of the most striking of the great medium's phenomena must,
in my opinion, be considerably discounted.
I do not pretend to explain all the recorded j^erformances of
D. D. Home. For my purpose it is sufficient to point out
that the ijreat itiujority can he explained away in a normal way
irithout tJie least difficulty. And here we are undoubtedly much
indebted to Lord Dunraven's transparently honest accounts and
to the light they throw :
a. On D. D. Home's behaviour
;
h. On the mentality of the persons present.
I am. Yours very truly,
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
xx« SiECLE, Brussels.
90 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, ii)27
EEYIEWS.
I.
Apollonius, or the Present and Future of Psychical Research. By
E. N. Bennett, M.A., late Fellow of Hertford College, Oxford.
London : Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner & Co. ; New York :
E. P. Button & Co. Pp. 9.5.
It is entirely proper that the entertaining pamphlets on the live
topics of the day called the To-day and To-morrow series should
include also one on Psychical Research, and it is fortunate that
so experienced, enterprising and com^^etent a psychical researcher
as Mr. E. N. Bennett should have undertaken to write it. I)i
ApoUonius he casts a rapid but intelligent coup d'oeil over the
present status of psychical affairs, which is necessarily stripped
of detail, and perhaj^s in places somewhat subjectively coloured
by his political interests, but is always stimulating and never dull.
It will be read with interest, and his readers will regret only that
Mr. Bennett has not added a short bibliography of what he
considers the most significant psychical literature of the day.
The points of interest in Mr. Bennett's survey to which I
myself would draw special attention are, in the first place, the
stress laid on Avhat he calls megalomania, i.e. the desire to appear
important, as a cause of fraud and misstatement in ^^sychics who
have no other obvious motive to deceive. He more than hints
that this may account for the cases of Stainton Moses (p. 24)
and Gilbert Murray (p. 48), and though I cannot associate myself
with the severity of this view, it can hardly be denied that it
reflects seriously on any person and any Society which allows the
evidence for any alleged supernormal happening to remain less
good than it might easily be made. Secondly, I would note Mr.
Bennett's robust faith in the proof of telepathy by the founders
of the S.P.R. (p. 45), even though he admits that " our facts
soon become more or less obsolete " and advocates the collection
of " fresh data." He hardly quite realises, perhaps, that no
scientific truth rests securely on merely historical evidence, and
that science always aims at control of the conditions and con-
sequent power to multiply the evidence at will. Tliirdly, he
inclines to regard telepathy as " a dying sense " (p. 53) which
functions more freely in animal life. I can see no advantage in
this supposition : it only makes its investigation more difficult,
June, 1927 Revieivs 91
without rendering it really more acceptable to the prejudices of
scientific materialism. Fourthly, he hardly appreciates sufficiently
the need for the provision of adequate funds (pp. 48-9). Psychical
Research has now reached a stage of development when large
endowments are needed not only for laboratories and the continuous
examination of sensitives, but also to render the position of Re-
search Officer of a Psychical Society such that men of first-rate
ability will feel justified in adopting it as a profession. Fifthly,
the wording of Mr. Bennett's reference (pp. 89-90) to my Report
{in Pioc. S.P.R., Vol. XVIII., p. 416) on the Questionnaire on Human
Sentiment about the Future Life is a little misleading. The " 78° o
"
who denied that they desired a future life " whatever the conditions
might be " were only [preferring annihilation to hell, and had mostly
answered an earlier question in the affirmative : the indifferents
who were not troubled about their future life were answering a
question as to whether it was actually essential to their mental
comfort. And the conclusion I ventured to draw from the evidence
was not that the belief in a future life was dying out, but rather
that it had always been a " half-belief," conventionally accepted,
but needing the stimulus of personal bereavement to become
really jjoignant (cf. Problems of Belief, ch. v.). It seems to me
as certain as anything can be in human psychology that if the
Churches now drop their dogma of immortality, with which they
have never been as earnest as they seemed, an appreciable fraction
of mankind will always seek (more or less enduring) satisfaction
in the seance -room. Lastly, Mr. Bennett has allowed his printer's
devil to misspell Sir W. Crookes's name on pp. 45 and 80, though
he gets it right on p. 18. Count v. Klinckowstroem is misspelt
on p. 79, and a letter has dropped out on p. 87.
F. C. S. Schiller.
n.
•Clairvoyance and Materialisation : a Record of Experiments. By
GusTAVE Geley. Translated by Stanley De Brath. 9J ins.
by 6J ins. Pp. xvi. 401. 105 illustrations. London: Fisher
Unwin (Ernest Benn). 1927. Price 30s. net.
The French original of this book {LEctoplasmie et la clairvoyance)
was reviewed in the July 1924 issue of our Journal (xxi. 300-302).
We are now glad to welcome this excellent translation of it, for
"whatever criticisms must be directed against particular points in
{)2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Junk, 1927
tlu' late Dr. Geley"s experiments, they do undoubtedly, in the
mass, deserve close attention. We regret that the translation has
been published at an unnecessarily high price. Th. B.
III.
True Irish Ghost Stories. By St. John D. Seymour and Harry L.
Neligan. Humphrey Milford, London, 1926. Pp. 299. 7s. 6d.
net.
This book was originally published in 1914, and has now been
re-issued with considerable additions. Some of the stories are
told only at second-hand ; but others are first-hand reports from
the percipients themselves, and although many of these do not
attain to the standard of evidence required by this Society, they
are not without interest and may usefully be compared with more
completely attested incidents. The following example is included
amongst apparitions at the time of death."
[P. 1 73.] A lady sends the following personal experience
:
' I had a cousin in the country who was not very strong,
and on one occasion she desired me to go to her, and
accompany her to K . I consented to do so, and arranged
a day to go and meet her : this was in the month of Feb-
ruary. The evening before I was to go, I was sitting by the
fire in my small parlour about 5 p.m. There was no light
in the room except what proceeded from the fire. Beside
the fireplace was an armchair, where my cousin usually sat
when she was with me. Suddenly that chair was illuminated
by a light so intensely bright that it actually seemed to
heave under it, though the remainder of the room remained
in semi-darkness. I called out in amazement, '
What has
hap]icned to the chair '.
'
In a moment the light vanished
and the chair was as before. In the morning I heard that
my cousin had died about the same time that I saw the
light."
The Ijook includes several quotations from the Proceediiujs
of the S.P.R., e.fj. an account of a haunted house in Co. Kilkenny,
p. 72 [S.P.R. Proc., Vol. X., p. 341), and the Enniscorthy
poltergeist case, p. 125 (S.P.P. Proc., Vol. XXV., p. 380).
There is also a group of stories of banshees " and other
death wari\ings. H. de G. S.
No. 437.—Vol. XXIV. ' July, 1927
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
•
•
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE. LONDON. W.C. i,
ON
FRIDAY, JULY 22nd, 1927, at 5 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" An Account of Some Sittings with Mr. George
Valiantine, at which Communications were given
in old Chinese,"
WILL BE READ BY
Dr. NEVILLE WHYMANT.
It is hoped that the Paper ivill be Illustrated by Gramophone Records.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meetitig. Members
and Associates ivill be admitted on signing their names at the door.
94 Journal of Society for Psychical Besearch July, 1927
The Rooms of the Society at 31 Tavistock Square, London,
W.C., will be closed after Saturday, July 30th, until Monday,
September 12th. Correspondence will be forwarded to the
staff during this time. The next number of the " Journal
"
will be issued in October.
CASE.
L. 1280. A Death Coincidence.
We print below a report of what appears to be an impression
received by the percipient at the time of the agent's death.
The case has come to us through Sir Oliver Lodge, to whom
the percipient, Mr. A. F. Henderson, wrote in the first
instance. The difficulty in cases such as this, in which
the percipient hears only a noise, or a " non-vocal sound-
phantasm," is to determine to what extent we are justified in
regarding the impression as causally connected with the event
with which it is afterwards associated, to determine, in fact,
whether the case is supernormal at all. What makes the
present case worth putting on record is the exact coincidence in
time between Mr. Henderson's impression and the death of his
friend. This type of evidence is discussed, and one or two
similar cases are quoted in Phantasms of the Living, Vol. II.,
pp. 125 fi. Two similar cases, originally printed in our own
Journal, are also quoted by Mrs. Sidgwick in her paper on
"Phantasms of the Living," Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXXIII.,
pp. 211-243. In these two cases there was also a close
coincidence in time.
The original report of his experience was sent by the per-
cipient, Mr. Henderson, to Sir Oliver Lodge. Mr. Henderson
wrote thus :
79 Pall Mall, S.W. 1,
nth March, 1927.
Dear Sie,
It has been suggested to me that the happening which
I shall relate may be of interest to you.
July, 1927 Case 95
The following is a perfectly authentic record of an experience
that I had in the early hours of January 9th ^ last.
On Sunday the 8th January my family and myself retired at
10.45 p.m. I was awakened by loud and continued knockings,
such as might have been caused by the rattling or banging of
windows or doors. So persistent were these noises that I got up,
but finding the disturbance could not have been so caused, I went
to my wife's room—which is immediately over mine—thinking that
she might have called me by knocking on the floor. I was led to
this thought because she had recently been far from well. I was
relieved to find her sleeping ; she was, however, awakened l)y my
opening the door, and after being assured that all was well,
I returned to my room. Before going to bed I looked at my
watch and foimd the time was 4.15 a.m.
I must now recount how the above occurrence is significant of
something supernatural.
5Iy dear old friend, Professor W. L. Barrett—in his day a
celebrated flautist—had been very ill for some time. He was to
have been the guest of the Savage Club House Dinner on
Saturday the 15th January in celebration of his fiftieth year of
membership and of his eightieth birthday.
On the previous Saturday, in spite of friendly warnings, he
insisted on going to his beloved Club, but during the evening
became so ill that he was taken by two of the Members to a
Nursing Home the same night. I was advised of this on the
following day—Sunday the 9th—and, of course, determined to visit
the Home on the following day. I was there at 9.30 a.m. and
was informed that my friend had passed away during the night.
At the time I did not connect this with what had occurred to
me at home, but on my telling my wife that " Billie " had died,
she reminded me of what had happened and asked me to ascertain,
if possible, at what time our friend had passed away. At the
moment when we were discussing this matter Mr. Barrett's nephew
rang me up on a matter connected with his uncle's death ; on
By a clerical error, corrected by Mr. Henderson in a later letter to Sir
Oliver Lodge, the dates given here are " January 9th " and Sunday the 8th
January." Sunday was in fact the 9th of January, and Mr. Henderson's
experience occurred in the early hours of the 10th. The date " Sunday the
9th " is correctly given in a later paragraph of Mr. Henderson's letter of
March 17th, and the date of his experience, .January 10th, is confirmed by
Mrs. Henderson's statement (see below).
96 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1927
my asking him if he knew the time he died, he told me that he
breathed his last at 4.10 a.m.—the exact minute that I was
awakened as I have described.
My wife, knowing of the deep friendship that existed between
Barrett and myself, is convinced that at the time of passing he
must have been thinking of me. Who knows ? I hope it may
be so, and I should like to have such belief strengthened.
May I venture to ask you to express your views on this
experience ? I shall be most grateful to you.
Yours faithfully,
A. F. Henderson.
In reply to this letter Sir Oliver Lodge wrote thus to Mr.
Henderson :
mh March, 1927.
The time coincidence in your report, if it can be thoroughly
substantiated, is certainly remarkable, and would seem to be
beyond chance coincidence. Occurrences like this have happened
before, and I see no reason to doubt that there is some causal
connexion between the death and the knockings, but as to how
such physical manifestations are brought about, we are in the
dark. It would seem unlikely that it can be the immediate
activity of the departed person. At the same time there does
seem to be a certain amount of psychic activity or energy
liberated at the moment of death, which sometimes takes a form
akin to this. ... Oliver Lodge.
To this letter Mr. Henderson replied as follows :
•
22nd March, 1927.
I am grateful to you for your letter of the 19th instant. I fully
understand and appreciate the fact that the statements made in
my letter to you must be thoroughly substantiated and corroborated.
In so far as I have described the happening, my wife will
corroborate the facts set out in my letter to you. I spoke to her
last night again on this subject and she tells me that after I had left
her room she herself looked at her clock and fixed the exact time.
For the rest, I am attaching hereto copies of letters I am
writing to :
(1) the Nursing Home where my friend died ;
(2) to Mr. Barrett's nephew. . . .
A. F. Henderson.
July, 1927 Case 97
The letters written by Mr. Henderson to the Matron at the
Nursing Home and to Mr. Barrett's nephew were as follows :
(a) Letter to the Matron.
22h(^ March, 1927.
It will, of course, be within your recollection that my friend,
the late Mr. W. L. Barrett, died in your Nursing Home between
Sunday the 9th January and Monday morning the 10th. No
doubt you have a record of the exact hour and minute that my
friend passed away.
I should be most grateful to you if you would let me know the
exact time he died.
I will later give you my reason for making this request.
(6) Letter to Mr. H. T. Barrett.
22nd March, 1927.
You will recollect that I had a remarkable experience in con-
nection with your late uncle's death. You will also remember
that when you telephoned to me on Monday evening the 10th
January last you informed me that he passed away at 4.10 a.m.
and that you obtained this information from the Nursing Home.
I should be very much obhged to you if you would kindly
confirm this.
I will later give you my reason for making this request.
On April 1st, 1927, Mr. Henderson wrote again to Sir Oliver
Lodge, enclosing the following letters received by him from the
Matron of the Nursing Home and Mr. H. T. Barrett
:
(a) Letter from the Matron.
Marcl 2ith, 1927.
Ite Mr. Barrett, who died in my Home on the 10th Jan. 1927.
I was very ill at the time with asthma and bronchitis, and for
six weeks did not make my books up. When I did do so I put
Mr. Barrett admitted on the 9th Jan.—died on the 10th between
4 and 5.
The Night Nurse who was with him when he died said as far
as she can remember it was between 4 to 4.30. So that if she
told Mr. Barrett's nephew it was 4.10 a.m., that would be correct.
Nurse D. W .
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1927
(b) Letter from Mr. H. T. Barrett.
3lst March, 1927.
My Dear Henderson,
I am sorry for the delay in writing you the specific
information as to the time of my late uncle's death, but I was
anxious to confirm my own recollection of the time, so that there
should be no doubt as to the accuracy of the information.
I was informed on the telephone of his illness on the afternoon
of Sunday, January 9th, and I telephoned the Nursing Home on
the same evening, when I was informed that he was comfortable
and apparently in no immediate danger, giving them my telephone
number to advise me of any change. Very early on Monday,
January 10th, the Matron rang me up saying that he had taken a
change for the worse and they were afraid he would not live the
night. I informed her that I would enquire how I could possibly
get through by motoring to York, Leeds or elsewhere, and would
ring her up later. I did this at 4.20 a.m. and was informed that
the old gentleman had been dead ten minutes, death taking place
at 4.10 a.m.
H. T. Barrett.
The following confirmatory statement was also received from
Mrs. Henderson :
April 3rd, 1927.
My husband has told me he has been, and is, in correspondence
with you in regard to his experience in connection with the death
of our dear old friend, Mr. W. L. Barrett.
The circumstances are clearly within my recollection, and are
briefly as follows :
In the early hours of Monday, Jan. 10th, my husband came
into my room appearing very much disturbed. He told me that
he had been awakened by noises which he thought might have
been made by me to call him ; I assured him that all was well
with me. After he left the room and before turning off the light
I noticed the time was 4.15.
On Monday morning, Jan. 10th, my husband called at the
Nursing Home where Mr. Barrett had been taken, and then and
there found that our friend had passed away. On the same
evening Mr. Barrett's nephew telephoned to my husband whilst
I was sitting by his side ; I prompted my husband to ascertain
July, 1927 Case 99
if possible whether Mr Barrett's nephew happened to know about
what time his uncle died ; it occurred to me to make this request
because I associated my husband's experience with the passing of
our friend, and he (Mr. Barrett's nephew) told my husband that
he had been informed over the telephone that the hour was
4.10 a.m. This convinced me that there must have been some
psychic influence to account for his experience.
Kate Hexderson.
On April 5th, 1927, Mrs. Salter wrote to Sir Oliver Lodge
asking whether any e\Tidence was available as to whether the
sounds heard by Mr. Henderson were objective or subjective.
To this enquiry Mr. Henderson replied thus :
4f/t Ajyril, 1927.
I thank you for your letter of the 28th ultimo and have care-
fully perused the communication you received from the Editor of
the Jouryml of the S.P.R., and in reply to this would say that I
had already anticipated the query. Neither my wife nor servants
heard any kind of disturbance during the night. . . .
A. F. Henderson.
TWO CASES OF INDUCED AUDITORY HALLUCINATION.
By Ct. H. Estabrooks, Ph.D.
The two following cases seem of interest to the writer since he
had the chance of studying them at first hand. They demon-
strate very neatly several points in the genesis of hallucination,
and one offers an example par excellence of spiritistic
" rappings." Indeed, if it were not for the fact that its
origin was perfectly certain, the writer would probably have been
willing to swear that it was a genuine case of psychic phenomena.
After completing his B.A. work and previous to going across
the water on a Rhodes Scholarship, the writer had a break-
down in health. This was due to a recurrence of lung trouble
caused by gassing and necessitated a year in sanatoriiun.
While there he experimented on auto-suggestion, and the two
following cases are examples ending a series of induced
hallucinations.
100 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1927
He found that he could put himself to sleep by counting,
and that suggestions made to himself during this process were
fairly successful. Most of these suggestions were of a thera-
peutic nature, the two reported on here being included in a
number of exceptions.
It was found that suggestions given in the afternoon would
tend to be realized that night. This seemed the most favour-
able combination. Accordingly the writer suggested to himself
one afternoon that he would wake up that night at 2 a.m. and
would hear an orchestra playing. He went to sleep at once
after this suggestion had been given, recalled it clearly on
waking for dinner, and had it in mind all the evening until
going to sleep for the night.
The suggestion worked very well. The writer awoke at
approximately 2.00 a.m., and was at first puzzled to hear an
orchestra playing. He shortly realized it as the result of his
suggestion and lay quietly listening to results. The music
continued for a minute or two, and then changed quite
suddenly into the rattling of the sanatorium windows. There
was a considerable breeze on and the rattling of the windows
together with the howling of the wind had combined to form
the point of departure for this very vivid hallucination.
The second case is, however, of more interest. The following
afternoon the writer suggested to himself that he should hear
spiritistic rappings the following night at 2.00 a.m. Again he
went to sleep while making the suggestion, and recalled them
perfectly after awaking for dinner and up to the time of going
to sleep finally for the night, at about 10.00 p.m.
That night he again awoke at about 2.00 a.m. He very
distinct!}' heard a series of " raps," which sounded much the
same as if one were drawing a blacksmith's rasp sharply over
a piece of wood every two or three seconds. The writer at
once realized the origin of the raps. They were very clear and
very persistent.
He made a " mentaj request " that they group themselves in
threes. They did so. They then grouped themselves in two's
again on request, and suddenly stopped after continuing for
about two minutes.
In the case of this hallucination there was another very
July, 1927 Ttvo Cases of Induced Auditory Hallucination. 101
interesting point. At each rap there was the sensation of a
sharp, light blow on the back of the right hand below the base
of the little finger. This hand was under the bedclothes.
Immediately after the cessation of the " raps " it was noticed
that the muscle at the base of the little finger was twitching
in that irritating way in which muscles will twitch when one
is a little overwrought.
Without doubt the last of these two hallucinations illustrates
the genesis of many reports of spiritistic phenomena. No
doubt there are a great many people more susceptible to
induced hallucinations of this type than is the writer. Auto-
suggestion, used of course unwittingly, would produce results in
these folk far more ostentatious than those herein reported.
So far as " subjective certainty " was concerned, the writer
is positive he heard those raps, felt them on his hand, and was
able to exercise mental control over them. Anyone not
familiar with their genesis would have been totally deceived.
As M'Curdy points out, it is this confusion of " subjective
certainty with objective reality " that marks the mystic.
Here we have a demonstration of at least one way in which
this confusion could very easily arise. g. H. Estabrooks.
Spbingfield College,
Springfield, Mass.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
SeelenproUeme, No. 1, Jan.-Mar. 1927. This is the first number
of a publication issued (in German) by the S.P.R. of Riga, and
is edited by Prof. D. C. Blacher of the University. To judge by
the contents there is considerable interest in psychical research in
Latvia, and the claim is made that in a Mr. F. (called " Paleas ")
Riga possesses one of the strongest of existing mediums.
Zeitschrift fiir Parapsychologie (formerly Psychische Studien), Mar.
1927, continues Herr Krall's (the owner of the Blberfeld horses)
interesting study of telepathic transference of orders from human
to animal minds, illustrating his contention by experiments of
von Osten's with " clever Hans " and of himself with Muhamed "
and " Zarif." Nevertheless he maintains that his horses were
capable of independent thought and usually answered by that.
R. Lambert has a long and critical review of the " Margery "
102 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1927
case, dealing with the accounts of Houdini, Bird, Prince, Hoagland
and Ehine, and to be continued in the next number. Prof.
F. Heiler has an article maintaining the genuineness of the Sadhu
Sundar Singh and the authenticity of the wonders related about
him, while Prof. Oesterreich of Tubingen reviews both his book
and Dr. 0. Pfister's, which comes to the opposite conclusion.
There is also a discussion of an article in the Berlin Tageblatt by
Dr. Rosenbusch accusing Eleonora Zugun of fraud and Countess
Wassilko of being her accomplice, together with a protest by six
Viennese professors repudiating this charge.
Zeitschrift fiir Kritischen Okkultisnms, Vol. II., Part 2, has an
article on Nostradamus by Count v. Klinckowstroem, who also
writes a short article to explain how he has become more critical.
Dr. R. Baerwald writes on K. Krall's articles in the Z. fur
Parapsycholo(jie, June and July, 1926, directed against the " in-
voluntary whispering " theory of telepathy propounded by Lehmann
and Hansen. Krall, as the result of elaborate experiments, has
been unable to verify Lehmann's and Hansen's results, and
suggests that their whispering was by no means " involuntary," a
j)oint which occurred also to me in reviewing Lehmann's Aher-
glaube unci Zauberei in 1900 (Proceedings, Pt. 38). Dr. Baerwald
disputes Krall's results on the ground that he has not reckoned
with the almost illimitable hyperaesthesia of the unconscious," and
that it is improper to question the results of such eminent pro-
fessors, and finally accuses him of being on the way to paranoia.
Count Perovsky Petrovo Solovovo criticises Lord Dunraven's book
on D. D. Home, and R. Herring considerably damages Sweden-
borg's reputation as a psychic. It appears (1) that the ghost of
M. de Marteville did not inform Swedenborg where the lost receipt
was to be found, but excused himself on the ground that he had
to inform his wife, who accordingly dreamt in the same night
where the missing document was to be found. The revised
version of the incident rests on a recently discovered letter written
by a Danish general who subsequently married the lady. (2)
Swedenborg's revelation to the Queen of Sweden is discredited
by the conflicts in the accounts and the lack of authentic reports.
(3) His clairvoyant vision of the fire in Stockholm is discounted by
the fact that there was no considerable fire at either of the dates
alleged, and rests practically on Swedenborg's own assertion.
F. C. S. S.
July, 1927 Reviews 103
REVIEWS.
I. The Mind and its Mechanism, with Special Reference to Ideo-
motor Action, Hypnosis, Habit and Instinct, and the Lamarckian
Theory of Evolution. By Paul Bousfield, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.,
and W. R. Bousfield, K.C., F.R.S. London : Paul Trench,
Trubner & Co., Ltd. 1927. Pp. 224. Price, 9s.
This book is, as its title-page shows, a book on Psychology, and
it only incidentally touches on Psychical Research. The object of
the writers is to expound a hypothesis—purely a hypothesis at
present—which may help to bridge the gap between brain and
mind.
The brain receives impressions through the senses, but there is
no evidence, physiological or other, of any mechanism in the
material brain to integrate the various sensations into meaning or
synthesize them with the results of past experience. For these
purposes a psychic structure of some sort must exist, whether
mental or physical. The authors of this book suggest that the
structure may be a real structure in the ether and therefore phy-
sical, though so fine that its elements are even more imperceptible
to us than the electrons and protons of which matter is now
believed to be composed, and therefore they consider, not material.
This structure may, they suggest, be a necessary part of every
living cell, through the whole scale of living organisms, and in
man we may describe it as a " psychic brain."
The psychic brain is conceived as consisting of at least two
departments : one the retentive department, or mnema, in which all
psychic dispositions are recorded and from which their resultants
emerge from time to time ; and the other the active department,
or exchange, to which sensory impressions are communicated and
passed on to consciousness together with mnemic impressions.
The exchange must also act in the reverse direction, transmitting
motor ideas from the consciousness to the material brain, analysed
into the form in which they can be carried out through the
muscles into action.
It is to consciousness that belong the emotions and the exercise
of judgment on the ideas presented to it.
Regarding material brain and psychic brain as both structures
in the ether, communication may be conceived as taking place
between them by means of etheric waves affecting the exchange.
104 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jily, 1927
In other words, the writers hold that it is in substance telepathic,"
and infer that " the exchange must be regarded as the organ for
telepathic reception "
(p. 195). About the reality of telepathy they
have no doubts, and the forms in which telepathic ideas are trans-
mitted and conditions favourable to their reception are briefly
discussed in a chapter on the subject. The writers are not un-
aware that " if telepathy is produced by radiant ether waves " a
difficulty arises from the fact that these waves " do not appear
to conform to the law that the intensity of the effect should vary
with the inverse square of the distance "
(p. 188), but they trust
to further experiments solving this and other puzzles.
If ideas are transmitted from the material brain to the psychic
brain by means of etheric vibrations, we may ask how they get
from the psychic brain to consciousness and vice versa. About this
the authors say very little, but what they do say rather suggests
that they conceive consciousness itself as etherial. "Possibly,"
they say (p. 103), " ideas from the mnema and the exchange are
conveyed to consciousness by etheric waves, but it seems more
probable that we must regard both the mnema and the exchange
as open to or merging into consciousness. Here, however, we are
up against something which seems at present outside the range of
rationalization." E. M. S.
II. The Case For and Against Psychical Belief. By Sir Oliver
Lodge, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Frederick Bligh Bond,
L. R. G. Crandon, Mary Austin, Margaret Deland,
William McDougall, Hans Driesch, Walter Franklin
Prince, F. C. S. Schiller, John E. Coover, Gardner
Murphy, Joseph .Jastrow, and Harry Houdini. Edited by
Carl Murchison. 9 in. x 6 in. Pp. ix.-365, 17 illustrations
and facsimiles. Worcester, Mass. : Clark University. 1927.
Price, $3.75.
We very sincerely congratulate the President and Trustees of
Clark University on the courage and scientific enterprise they have
shown in having assented to the delivery, under their auspices, of
this first course of lectures on psychical research to be officially
given in a University : a priority, we venture to say, that should
have been claimed by one or two other American Universities very
liberally endowed for such a purpose.
July, 1927 Reviews 105
We regret, however, that more thought and care were not de-
voted to the preparation, first, of the course itself, and now of
the book embodying it.^ The term " psychical belief " should
have been editorially defined, for psychical belief (even accepting
this loose use of " psychical ") is not necessarily the same thing
as conviction of the reality of supernormal phenomena. This dis
tinction is tacitly recognised by the division of the book into four
parts, containing respectively the contributions of those " convinced
of the multiplicity of psychical phenomena," of those " convinced
of the rarity of genuine psychical phenomena," of those " uncon-
vinced as yet," and of those " antagonistic to the claims that such
phenomena occur." (We may well ask why the word " genuine
""
was introduced into the second reading : we are to understand,
presumably, that the lecturers in the first group, among whom is
Sir Oliver Lodge, believe in the multiplicity of phenomena that
are not genuine !)
To come to the selection of lecturers and subjects, it is un-
fortunate that in such a course as this was intended to be, sixty
pages are devoted to a contemporary case (the Margery case) all
aspects of which are still subjects of acute controversy. The
lectures of Miss Austin and Miss Deland, while interesting enough,
must be put down as literary, rather than as scientific, per-
formances. As for the late Harry Houdini, who repeats once
more the oft-told tale of mediumistic fraud (in an extract from his
book A Magician among the Spirits), we refuse, with all resj^ect, to
consider skill in conjuring to be in itself adequate qualification for
oiiering serious criticism of psychical research.
Dr. McDougall contributes a lecture on " Psychical Research as
a University Study," which is probably the most eloquent and
sustained argument for psychical research as a scientific study that
has ever been written. We hope it will be reprinted as a pamph-
let and given the widest possible circulation. Sir Oliver Lodge's
paper is a characteristically direct and lucid survey of the history
and phenomena of our subject, together with the formulation of a
^ On p. 16, for mircales read miracles ; p. 22, for " Thirty Years of Psy-
chical Investigation " read "... Research " ; pp. 69, 70, for Geley read Geley ;
p. 145, 1. 31, has a surplus it ; p. 151, I. 27, for it read its ; p. 217, 1. 30, for
us read no ; pp. 248, U. 9-10, and 297, 11. 36-37, should be transposed ; on
pp. 246 and 248 are two different references to the source of a quotation
from Crookes ; p. 249, n. 9, for Jahaun read Johann ; p. 261, n. 16, for
Meyers read Myers ; on p. 269 the beginning of a paragraph is not indented ;
p. 270, 1. 34 is upside down.
106 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1927
working hypothesis based 011 the possibility that the ether acts as
intermediary between mind and body and between mind and mind.
Dr. Prince's lecture follows much the same lines as Dr. McDougall's :
though we cannot help remarking that he infuses a good deal of
jsassion into his indictment of emotional opposition to psychical
research. Dr. Schiller restates the problems of psychical research
as they appear from his own logical standpoint, with emphasis on
the possibility of applying the pragmatic test to them. As Dr.
Schiller points out (p. 221), dowsing is the only " psychical
"
phenomenon which has as yet successfully met this test, though
there is no intrinsic reason why all the other phenomena should
not prove amenable to it. Our President, Professor Driesch, ex-
amining the relation of psychical research to philosophy, finds
practically all its phenomena to be readily capable of being
understood. He finds it impossible, however, to explain psycho-
metry without introducing paraphysical or spiritist hypotheses : for,
w'hile clairvoyance may be related to certain philosophical doctrines,
such as that of Leibnitz's omniscient monad, the role of the in-
animate object in psychoraetry makes this impossible. But is this
not to make premature assumptions concerning the actual role of
this inanimate object ? Is it not possible that the belief of a
psychometrical medium in the necessity of an object to be psy-
chometrized, may act as a censor preventing the exercise of the
normal clairvoyant faculty unless such an object is actually present ?
On this assumption, we need not have recourse to Dr. Driesch's
suggestion (p. 173) that psychometry may be assimilated to the
physical phenomena which occur in discontinuity with the medium's
body, by supposing that the object in psychometry has " on " it
a materialized structure perceptible only to the medium. The only
jiheuomenon for which Dr. Driesch is not prepared (p. 170) to
advance any hypothesis whatever is premonition. The whole paper
is extremely suggestive and should be closely studied.
Apart from Houdini, Dr. Coover and Dr. Jastrow are the only
lecturers definitely opposed to the claims of psychical research
(although the former appears in the section of the " unconvinced ").
Dr. Jastrow 's j^aper cannot be described otherwise than as fanciful :
he ranges backwards and forwards through history, psychology,
ethnology, without making a single sj^ecific criticism. Here is an
exam]jle of his method. Half-way through his lengthy lecture we
come at last to a paragraph beginning (p. 295) :
" Certainly in
July, 1!)27 Revieivs 107
opposing to the last ditch the conclusions and the animus of
Psychical Research I can do no less than select as its exponent
the most favourable example of the position involved." This very
reasonable opening introduces an extensive quotation from Pro-
fessor Richet, followed by—two pages of amazed exclamation with-
out a single word of specific criticism !
^
Dr. Coover does not make the same mistake : his paper almost
entirely consists of quoted cases and remarks on them. But some
of these remarks are very surprising indeed. We have space for
only a single example : commenting on Richet's plea " for the
acceptance of the phenomena on the grounds of the evidence for
their occurrence, not because they are in any way understood,"
Dr. Coover observes (pp. 233-234) :
" But is the evidence for a
phenomenon really sound if nothing concerning the phenomenon is
revealed but its occurrence ?
"
Theodore Besterman.
III. A propos de VIntroduction a la MetapsycJiique Humaine. Refuta-
tion du livreyde Rene Sudre. By Ernest Bozzano. Paris
:
Jean Meyer. 1926. Pp. 2.50.
It was not to be expected that spiritists would relish the
methods by which the ingenious M. Sudre sought to dispense with
the spiritist interpretation of the psychical phenomena he discussed
in his Introduction a la MetapsycJiique Humaine ; but it is a well-
deserved tribute to his cleverness that Prof. Bozzano should have
found it incumbent on him to devote to it so detailed, thorough,
and readable a confutation. He has no difficulty in showing that
in his desire to avoid spiritism M. Sudre is often driven to the
use of strange devices, and in quoting many cases which, as
reported, tell strongly in favour of the spiritist interpretation.
But M. Sudre, in reply, would presumably content himself with
1 Dr. Jastrow makes great play with witchcraft, of which he writes (p. 293) :
" There is none of the phenomena included in the categories of '
Psychical
Research ' for which the evidence is more abundant, versatile, and compre-
hensive than that for witchcraft as a reality. . .
."'
This is a quite typical
example of Dr. Jastrow's method : he is evidently ignorant of Gurney's
important essay on the subject in Phantasms of the Living (i. 172-185), in
which it is shown that there is no evidence whatever for those elements of
witchcraft wliich Dr. Jastrow describes as having been " rationalised out of
existence " (lycanthropy, compacts, nocturnal rides, and the like).
108 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1927
stressing " as reported," and hinting that such reports were
untrustworthy. As both sides show animus and have a bias, it
is a very pretty quarrel between rival theories, in which there is
no need for the psychical researcher as such to take sides, because
his primary concern is with the recording and accumulating of
the facts. Their interpretation may be allowed to stand over for
the present. F. c. S. Schiller.
INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS FOR PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH.
As already announced in the Journal, the Third International
Congress for Psychical Research will be held in Paris from
September 26th to October 2nd, 1927. Any Members or
Associates wishing to attend the Congress, who have not already
sent their names in, are requested to write as soon as possible to
Mrs. W. H. Salter, S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1,
Secretary of the English Committee, from whom further
particulars may be obtained.
CONCERNING THE SCHNEIDER MEDIUMSHIP.
To the Editor of The Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—May I call the attention of our members to the June issue
of the quarterly journal Psyche (Kegan Paul, 5/). In it will be found
a paper by one of our members, Mr. Warren J. Vinton, on his
experiences in Braunau with the brothers Schneider. The theory of
confederacy, which Mr. Dingwall suggested at the Conversazione on
December 9th, 1925, is again presented with an array of evidence it
would be foolish to ignore.
DoEis Dingwall.
No. 438.—Vol. XXIV. October, 1927
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Conversazione
WILL BE HELD AT
19B TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON. W.C. i,
IN THE LOUNGE
ON
WED'NESDAY, OCTOBER igth, 1927, /rowj S-10 p.m.
Refreshments, for which a charge of is. will be made, will be
provided between 8 and 9 p.m.
Dr. WALTER F. PRINCE
will give an Address.
Morning or evening dress optional.
N.B.
—
Eac/i Member or Associate is allowed to invite one friend. It is
requested that those ivho intend to be present and to have refresh-
me?its, and also those who wish to bring a guest, will inform the
Secretary beforehand. Jt tvould be a convenience if they would
kindly send at the same time payment for the refreshments.
110 Journal of Society Jar Psychical Research October, 1927
NEW MEMBEES.
Elected July 8th, 1927.
De Brath, Stanley, 13 High Park Gardens, Kew, Surrey.
Hall-Smith, Harold, 33 East Dean Road, Eastbourne.
Handley-Seymour, Major J. B., 1 AVadham Gardens, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
Elected July 22nd, 1927.
Dorr, Mrs. John Van Nostrand, 1040 Park Avenue, New York,
U.S.A.
Muspratt, Cliflford, c/o Messrs. J. M. Quiggin & Son, 8 Harrington
Street, Liverpool.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 239th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Friday, July 8th, 1927, at 3.30 p.m.,
Mr. J. G. PiDDiNGTON in the chair. There were also present
;
Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mr. E. N. Bennett, Mr. W. E. Bousfield,
Professor E. E. Dodds, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr. W. H.
Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J.
Woolley ;
also, Mr. Theodore Besterman, Hon. Librarian, and
Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
Mr. J. Arthur Hill was co-opted a Member of Council for
the year 1927-8.
It was agreed to close the Eooms of the Society on July
31st until September Pith.
The 240th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on July 22nd, 1927, at 5 p.m. : The
Eight Hon. G. W. Balfour in the chair. There were also
present : Mr. W. E. Bousfield, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr.
G. W. Lambert, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. W. H. Salter,
Mrs. W. H. Salter, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, Mrs. Hemy Sidgwick,
October, 1927 Meetings of the Council 111
and Dr. V. J. Woolley ;
also, Mr. Theodore Besterman, Hon.
Librarian, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Two new members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
PEIVATE MEETINGS.
The 91st Private Meeting of the Society was held in the
Society's Eooms at 31 Tavistock Square on Friday, July 8th,
1927, at 5 p.m., Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the chair.
Mr. W. H. Salter read a paper entitled " An Experiment in
Pseudo-Scripts," which will appear shortly in Proceedings.
The 92nd Private Meeting of the Society took place in the
Society's Rooms at 31 Tavistock Square on July 22, 1927
—
Sir Oliver Lodge in the chair. The reason for holding an
extra meeting so late in the season was to give our Members
an opportunity of hearing from the Chinese scholar. Dr. Neville
Whymant, an account of sittings at which he had been present
in New York when a so-called " direct voice " spoke through
a trumpet in Chinese—at first in modern Chinese, but after-
wards in archaic Chinese, the voice then apparently claiming
to be the philosopher Confucius.
Dr. Whymant is not only a Chinese scholar, but speaks'
many languages, and it was in order that he might interpret
what was said in Italian that he was invited to join a private
circle in New York where Mr. George Valiantine was the
medium. The sittings were held in complete darkness.
Italian remarks duly came, but not in good Italian. This
defect, however, was explained by the control as due to his
being a Sicilian speaking in the Sicilian dialect. Later came
what Dr. Whymant at once recognised as Chinese, and he
and the control exchanged the elaborate complimentary remarks
customary in China when strangers meet, and carried on some
conversation. After three or four sittings at which remarks in
modern Chinese were made, a name was somewhat indistinctly
given which suggested the name of Confucius to Dr. Whymant
A 2
11 "2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1927
to his great surprise, and conversation in archaic Chinese on
the control's part and with old pronunciation and intonation
followed. The actual pronunciation and intonation of the time
of Confucius himself, who died in 478 B.C., are not known
—
indeed, they hardly could be ; but writings of his remain, and
a Tmode of pronouncing them was fixed a few centuries ago,
and is used by scholars. One of the most remarkable things
that happened was that the control not only completed an
obscure and little read poem from an anthology of Confucius
or his time, of which Dr. Whymant quoted to him only the
first line, but gave a plausible interpretation of it new to Dr.
Whymant. •
This control spoke at several sittings, and Dr. Whymant
was extremely puzzled, not to say disturbed, and has, we
gather, at present no explanation of the phenomena satis-
factory to himself to offer. He regards the investigation of
the case as incomplete, and it is much to be hoped that
when he returns to America, as he probably will do in the
autumn, he may have the opportunity of further sittings,
and that he may perhaps secure the collaboration of another
Chinese scholar.
The paper was illustrated by gramophone records of " direct
voice " through Valiantine, for which we are indebted to Lord
Charles Hope, who took them in England subsequently to
Dr. Whymant's American sittings. The gramophone repro-
duced for us both Italian and Chinese speaking and a short
communication in the Confucius voice. Unfortunately, how-
ever, they were not distinct enough to be heard in rooms full
of people—they suffered, of course, from the double indis-
tinctness of trumpet and gramophone—and Chinese scholars
present at the meeting could make little of them.
The paper was, of course, much more interesting than this
bare account of it. The meeting was a very full one, and
those present listened with close attention, and an interesting
discussion followed.
October, 1927 Obituary Notice: Miss C. E. Wingfield 113
OBITUARY NOTICE : MISS C. E. WINGFIELD.
We regret to announce the death of Miss C. E. (Kate)
Wingfield, which took place suddenly on July 7, 1927. Miss
Wingfield was a very remarkable crystal-gazer and automatist.
Under the pseudonym of " Miss A.," a long description of
her experiences is given by Myers in Proceedings, VIII, pp.
498-516 ;
IX, pp. 73-92. Much of this is reproduced in Human
Personality. At a later date Miss Wingfield developed trance
mediumship, and one of the earliest attempts at a cross-
correspondence is described by Mr. Piddington in Proc.
XVIII, pp. 205, 267, 294, where Miss Wingfield appears
under the name of " Miss Rawson." See also Proc. XXIII,
pp. 212-214, 219-226, Sir Oliver Lodge on " Trance Com-
munications." Also Journal, XI, p. 167.
Two volumes of Selections from Miss Wingfield's automatic
writings have been published under her own name under the
titles Guidance fro-m Beyond, More Guidance from Beyond
(Philip Allen, 1923-1925). Of late years Miss Wingfield's
psychic activities were confined to her family and friends, by
whom she is deeply mourned. L. J. J.
DR. T. W. MITCHELL S PAPER AT THE BRITISH
ASSOCIATION.
At the meeting of the British Association for the Advancement
of Science at Leeds, a paper was read in the Psychology
Section, on September 5th, by Dr. T. W. Mitchell on " The
Phenomena of Mediumistic Trance." The meeting was presided
over by Dr. William Brown, President of the section.
There was a large and interested audience, and the paper
was followed by a discussion in which Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr.
C. S. Myers, Dr. William Brown and others took part.
The discussion centred mainly round the question of the
reality of telepathy, and its adequacy to explain the phenomena
observed.
In his presidential address on " Mental Unity and Mental
Dissociation," earlier the same day, Dr. William Brown referred
114 Journal of Society for Psychical Research octobeu, 1927
to the work of the Society for Psychical Research in the following
terms :
" The unitary personality, as an organisation of mental activities
and mental powers, is not static but dynamic, and is in process
of development throughout life. Although it carries with it, as a
physical correlate, a unitary working of the brain and of other
parts of the body, this does not necessarily involve complete
dependence \\])0\\ the latter for its continued existence. The
question of personal survival of bodily death is one which can be
intelligibly and scientifically put, and which is in theory answer-
able along the lines of scientific observation and inference. The
investigations carried out by the Society for Psychical Research
during the past fifty years are of this nature, and the Society's
results and provisional hypotheses can rightly claim a place in
modern psychological science. Nevertheless, if due allowance is
made for the possible working of such factors as conscious or sub-
conscious fraud, telepathy between the living, and chance coincid-
ence, the scientifi'C evidence for personal survival of bodily death is
not very strong.
For more convincing reasons (apart from the pronouncements of
revealed religion) in support of this belief we still have to turn
to philosophy, and in modern philosophical theories of value we
find arguments that are far from negligible.''
MR. PRICE'S LIBRARY
During the reorganisation of the Library, it became clear that
.additional space was urgently needed for the Society's own books,
and that it would therefore be impossible both to meet this
demand and also to house in the Society's rooms the Library
on Magic which Mr. Price some years ago kindly lent to the
Society. The Council were accordingly reluctantly compelled
to inform Mr. Price to this efi'ect. They wish to take this
occasion of thanking Mr. Price once again for the loan of his
valuable collection.
LIBRARY NOTICE
The reorganisation of the Society's Library has nearly been com-
pleted, and the lending of books will soon be resumed. New
October, 1927 Library Notice 115
bookcases are installed, and a new catalogue will shortly be
ready. It is hoped that members will take full advantage of
the improved facilities for consulting and borrowing books and
periodicals.
The next number of the Journal will contain, it is hoped,
particulars of a plan constituting the Library into a Memorial
to the founders and other outstanding workers in the Society.
CASE.
L. 1281 A Telepathic Impression.
We print below a report of an auditory impression apparently
of telepathic origin. It will be seen that the experience
occurred some time ago, in 1914, but it is confirmed by
several people to whom the relevant facts were known at the
time of their occurrence. The case has come to us through
Sir Oliver Lodge, to whom the percipient. Miss S. A. Acland,
wrote in the first instance. We take this opportunity of
thanking Miss Acland for her trouble in collecting the necessary
evidence, and for permission to use her name.
Miss Acland's letter to Sir Oliver Lodge was as follows :
7 Park Town, Oxford,
May 29, 1927.
Will you forgive me for once more troubling you with a letter ?
I have been thinking for some time of writing to you on the
subject of telepathy, but waited until after I had heard your
broadcast of the result of the telepathy experiment, which I did
last evening.
I have only had one experience myself in telepathy—but that
was, I hope you may think, interesting. I spent eight winters
for my health in Madeira, leaving for seven of those years my
faithful maid in charge of my house and affairs, including my
little dog Chum, a Yorkshire terrier. The year 1910 ^ I left my
maid, Mrs. Lawrence, as usual in Oxford ; she had then been
with me twenty years, and we slept in neighbouring rooms with
the door between us a little way open, as she was an invalid.
On the night of Feb. 22, 1914, I went to bed as usual, but
slip for 1914, see below.
—
Ed.
116 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1927
awoke suddenly, hearing, as I felt sure, Lawrie, as I call her,
calling for me. I did not remember that I was in Madeira, and
said, " Yes, Lawrie. I'm coming," and put out my right hand
to turn up my electric light which is on that side in Oxford, and
found space. I then realized that I was in Madeira, but still
seemed to hear her calling. I then turned up my light, which
was on my left hand, and looked at my watch, which told me
it was 2.20. I could do nothing, so turned it out again, and
after a time went to sleep.
In the morning my maid, who is Mrs. Lawrence's niece, came
in, and my first words were : "I am so afraid that there is
something very wrong with your Aunt, she seemed to be calling
for me so urgently last night." Later Dr. Grabham, the well-
known Madeira doctor, now 87, came in, and I told him. I was
so much impressed and distressed.
I wrote home by the next mail to enquire whether there was
anything wrong that night. In those days it took just about
three weeks to receive an answer. When it came it told me
that my much-loved little dog was desperately ill that day ; the
Vet. had been three times and our kind Doctor three or four
times in the hope of saving Chum's life. He had probably been
poisoned. Mrs. Lawrence sat up with him the night of the 22nd,
giving him Brand's Essence or drops of brandy every quarter of
an hour. She kept saying, " Oh ! how I wish that Miss Acland
were at home. How I wish she were at home." The wish was
so strong that it woke me 1500 miles away. The little dog
recovered. . . .
Yours very truly,
Sarah A. Acland.
On June 3, 1927, the editor, Mrs. Salter, wrote to Miss
Acland, asking whether it would be possible to obtain con-
firmatory statements from Dr. Grabham, Mrs. Lawrence, Miss
Massey, and the doctor in England who had attended the
dog. On July 9, 1927, Miss Acland wrote to Mrs. Salter as
follows :
I think I have now collected all the evidence for which you
ask. I enclose (1) a signed note from Dr. Michael Grabham,
M.D., F.R.C.P., etc., etc. (2) A note from my maid, Miss C.
Massey. (3) A note from Mrs. C. Lawrence. (4) A certificate
October, 1927 Case 117
from Dr. F . I wrote out the paper which Dr. Grabham has
signed to save him trouble, and in returning it this week he
writes, " I have no difficulty in signing the statement, as I
remember the circumstances well." I have still Mrs. Lawrence's
letters telling me of the little dog Chum's illness on her birthday
and of her wish for me. . . .
Sarah A. Acland.
With this letter were enclosed, the statements referred to by
Miss Acland, as below :
QuiNTA DO Val,
Funchal, Madeira.
I quite well remember Miss Acland telling me when I went to
see her one morning that she had been awakened by fancying
that Mrs. Lawrence, who was in Oxford, had been calling to her.
Miss Acland feared that the maid was ill, as her health had been
a source of great anxiety to Miss Acland for many years.
Michael Gtrabham.
I was with Miss Acland in Madeira, and quite remember her
telling me in the morning when I went to her, that she was
afraid something was the matter with my Aunt in Oxford, as she
had been awakened by hearing her call.
This was the morning of Feb. 23, 1914.
C. E. Massey.
Feb. 22, 1914.
I shall never forget my birthday, Feb. 22, 1914, when I was
attending all day and that night to little Chum, who was so very
ill, and I kept wishing that Miss Acland was at home.
Caroline Lawrence.
9-vi-27.
I certify that I well remember that Miss Acland's little dog
was ill, and that I went to see him ; this was in February 1914,
when Miss Acland was in Madeira. In a few days I got a letter
from Miss Acland that told me that she had a foreknowledge of
something wrong at home, as she had heard Mrs. Lawrence calling
her two or three times so plainly that she wondered what was
the matter.
J. R. C. F ,
M.A., L.R.C.P. Lond.
118 Journal of Society jar Psychical Research October, rJ27
It will be observed that in Miss Acland's letter of July 9,
1927, she mentions that she still has in her possession the
letters from Mrs. Lawrence telling her of the dog's illness.
As these letters constitute the only written records of the
events concerned made within a short time of their occurrence,
it seemed advisable to see them, in order to put the case on
the strongest possible basis of evidence. Accordingly, with
Miss Acland's permission, Mrs. Salter wrote to Dr. Schiller,
asking whether he would call upon Miss Acland and see the
letters, which he was good enough to do. On July 20, 1927,
Dr. Schiller wrote to Mrs. Salter as follows :
Corpus Christ: College,
Oxford.
. . . [Miss Acland] showed me the letters of Mrs. Lawrence,
\vhich were full of small household details, and from which I
transcribed what seemed the most relevant })arts.
(1) On Feb. 27, 1914, she wrote :
1 must tell you we have had Chummy ill. On Saturday
[Feb. 21, 1914] after tea Ethel and Rosie took him for a
walk. It had been a wet day, so it was very dirty.
Whether he picked anything or had a chill I do not know. . . .
When he came back he seemed quite himself until we were
just having sujjper, when he was very sick, and was so
several times in the night ; and on Sunday he was very ill,
so before dinner I asked Mr. V [the Vet.] to come. . . .
I told Mr. F on Monday how ill he was [Mr. F. is Miss
A."s doctor and had given her the dog], and he came up first
thing. ... I feel so thankful he has pulled through. . . . He
was in a state of stupor all Sunday, the night too.
(2) On 6th Mar., 1914, she wrote :
My birthday was spent looking after dear little Chum,
which I shall not be likely to forget. At this minute he is
lying on the rug asleep with his ball. . . . He went with me
this morning.
These references ought to enable you to verify the dates suffi-
ciently.
I have also seen Dr. C4rabham's letter accompanying his con-
firmation. ...
F. C. S. Schiller.
•OCTOBEE, 1927 Revieiv 119
KEVIEW.
An Experiment with Time. By J. W. Dunne. A. C. Black,
Ltd. Pp. 208. 8s. 6d.
The first hundred pages of this very suggestive book describe
certain dream experiences of Mr. Dunne and his friends, in some
of which future events were apparently foreseen with an accuracy
which, though not photographic, is sufficiently striking and un-
canny to merit the most serious attention. This dream prevision
does not appear to have been precisely of that particular brand
which M. Sudre has styled " duplicating precognition," since our
author's dream scenes were usually composite pictures in which
past and future experience and pure imagination are blended,
rather than faithful reproductions of future events. Thus, for
instance, one night in the spring of 1902, Mr. Dunne dreamed he
was standing on the slopes of a hill watching an island on which
a volcano was about to explode. The dream developed into a
nightmare in which Mr. Dunne found himself rushing about among
the French authorities of a neighbouring island and shouting in
his efforts to save the threatened island, " Listen ! four thousand
people will be killed unless " A little later (he does not
give the exact date) Mr. Dunne received a newspaper describing
the volcano disaster in the French island Martinique. The
newspaper mentioned a probable loss of over forty thousand
lives, and it is curious that our author misread these figures
as four thousand, which was the number given in his dream.
Subsequent information showed that the actual number of deaths
had nothing in common with four thousand, and from this fact
and many similar experiences, Mr. Dunne concludes that what he
foresees in his dreams are not distant events in the world, but
anticipations of his own future mental experiences. Thus, the
author would appear to have reached independently the con-
clusion of Dr. Osty that it is his own future which the dreamer
foresees, and not the future of those world events of which
he will never receive the sense impressions. In other words, if
there is displacement of consciousness in time, this displacement
is directed along the brain tracks of the subject.
Mr. Dunne is very chary throughout his narrative of giving us
the exact dates and times of the various occurrences described,
but as he states explicitly that his records are not to be regarded
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Ootobeu, i!t27
as scientific evidence, it would be somewhat unfair to bring him
to book on that score. At the same time, it is a matter for
regret that Mr. Dunne, who has such a keen sense of experimenta-
tion, and who seems fully alive to the psychological possibilities,
of his subject, should have omitted to take the simple precaution
of getting his dream records witnessed and posted immediately to
some responsible scientific man. Oases of prevision, in which the
evidence is unimpeachable, are at present as rare as lunar rain-
bows, and it is a pity that such good cases as Mr. Dunne presents
may possibly have to be discounted on the grounds of insufficient
corroboration.
In addition to the dreams, there are described certain waking
experiments which bear a not altogether fanciful analogy to the
book tests of psychic research. Having chosen some book which
he had not previously read, say Mason's House of the Arrow, the
author opens it at the beginning and finds the name of one of
the characters, being careful not to glance at any other page.
He then closes the book, sits down and gives up his mind to.
free association. Discarding those images which belong definitely
to the past, he jots down others that have an appearance of
novelty, and among these latter he perceives the image of "a
clock pointing to half-past ten." He seems to reach this image
by association with the character he has chosen, and on opening
the book he finds that the plot of the whole story hangs upon
" a clock pointing to half-past ten." In this particular case,,
although Mr. Dunne had not read The House of the Arrow, it
might not be unreasonable to suppose that he may have pre-
viously seen some review of this book and forgotten about it.
Whether these waking experiments are to be regarded as real
cases of clairvoyance in future time will be to many an open
question, but the incident (p. 86) of seeing an umbrella standing
on its handle outside the Piccadilly Hotel and next day noticing
an old lady using her umbrella in this fashion near the same spot
certainly lends support to the author's interpretation.
In order to account for these redoubtable experiences Mr. Dunne
had first recourse to the hypothesis of false memory or " identify-
ing paramnesia." This hypothesis he easily eliminated by care-
fully recording his dreams at the very moment of waking, and
he was led gradually to elaborate an extremely complicated theory
of " serial times," and " serial observers," which, imless we have
October, 1927 Review 121
entirely misunderstood it, seems based on a fallacy. Adopting the
epiphenomenalist standpoint, he regards every mental state as
correlated to a group of brain events and the brain itself as a
four-dimensional complex of events which occupy a certain length
GH of the time dimension. Every point X on GH marks a three-
dimensional time section of the brain, and the events comprised
in this section are schematically represented by points A, B, C,
etc., lying in a line through X drawn perpendicular to the plane
of the paper, the three dimensions of space being, for the sake of
convenience, contracted into one. Travelling along the time line
GH is an observer 01, who can only think in three dimensions
and who takes, as it were, successive mental snapshots of the
three-dimensional sections of the brain. Now, according to the
author, the motion of this observer 01 along the time dimension
must itself be timed by reference to a new kind of time, which
he calls T2. The observer 01 must himself be observed by a
new observer 02, whose span of consciousness is four-dimensional,
and whose field of attention at any moment consists of the
psychical correlates of the time extended brain events contained
within a segment of the line GH. To this new observer our
ordinary time becomes merely an additional dimension of space,
and his real time of conscious duration is figured as the new
time T2, so that the conceptual world of 02 is really five-dimen-
sional. This new time T2 is geometrically represented as exend-
ing in the plane of the paper in a direction perpendicular to the
old time line GH. As the " three-dimensional " observer 01
moves along GH from birth to death, the line GH itself is
imagined to be moving in time T2, perpendicular to its own
length, so that (assuming the two displacements to be j^ropor-
tional to each other) the observer 01 is really moving in a
diagonal line. The motion of 02 in time T2 must itself be
timed by reference to a third time T3, and the observer 02
must himself be observed by a new observer 03, whose field of
perception would therefore be five-dimensional and his conceptual
world six-dimensional, and so the process is conceived to go on
indefinitely, until we reach an ultimate time and an ultimate
observer—the " observer at infinity."
During waking hours the four-dimensional observer 02 sur-
rounds the bright moving focus of 01 like a fringe of dimmer
light, and follows him slavishly along GH. In sleep, however^^
122 Journal oj Society for Psychical Research October, 1927
when 01 is temporarily extinct, 02 is free to fix his attention
on any strip of GH, and this strip may lie either in the past of
01 or in his future. Now, according to the author, the observer
02 has not properly learnt his business of interpreting four-dimen-
sional presentations, which he tends to represent to himself as a
series of three-dimensional sections with gaps between. -Hence
we have an explanation of the disconnected character of dreams,
and also of the intermingling of past and future in the prevision
dreams. At physical death the observer 01 is the only one to
disappear from the diagram, but observer 02 remains immortal in
time T2 as GH moves indefinitely up the page.
Now, in criticising this scheme of serial times, we must first
note that the author regards the cerebral elements as having
'extensions into this mysterious time T2, and he represents these
extensions by straight lines (or, more strictly, right cylinders with
their axes parallel to the direction T2). This seems necessarily
to imply that he looks upon our space-time universe of experience
as being a four-dimensional section of some larger five-dimensional
complex of which the new time T2 will constitute the fifth
dimension. Now, if there is an observer 02 who interprets this
fifth dimension as the time T2 of his conscious duration,
then it seems clear that for such an observer our own universe
in time Tl (or as much of it as he can grasp) is merely
an instantaneous phenomenon in his consciousness. In fact, 02
will move instantaneously out of our universe into other four-
dimensional sections of the complex which, though they may be
in some unknown sense continuations of our world, are yet
emphatically outside our world. It would appear, therefore, that
the author is wrong in supposing that the observer 02 would be
able to follow the observer 01 in the time GH, since the whole
of GH, its cerebral states and correlated conscious states, would
be but a moment in the existence of 02. 02, in fact, cannot
remain in our universe, and it does not seem possible to conceive
the old time and the new time T2 as flowing on together.
By representing the cerebral extensions in time T2 as being
right cylinders, the author would seem to imply that in this
time T2 all the phenomena of our four-dimensional universe
simply endure without any change. But if such is his meaning
there would appear to be little justification for introducing the
time 72. To give a truer picture of the cerebral extensions in
October, 1927 Reviews 12S
time T2, they should have been represented, not as right cylinders^
but as some more general kind of surfaces.
The best way out of the difficulty would be for the author
definitely to abandon time T'2 and the other serial times which
seem to lie altogether outside human experience. It might, in
fact, be better to attempt to explain prevision as a mere dis-
placement of the field of perception along the time of ordinary
experience, and thus avoid introducing the unknown and the
unknowable.
Two later chapters of the book are devoted to expounding a
curious theory of
'"
intervention," which, even if the original
scheme were workable, strikes us as rather unplausible and at
variance with the author's epiphenomenalism.
But whatever may be thought of Mr. Dunne's theories, it must
be admitted that he has made a distinct contribution to our
knowledge of dreams and prevision, and it is to be hoped that
others will be found ready to follow in the way he has opened
up. If his book leads others to record their dreams and to-
repeat his waking experiments while paying attention to the vital
question of corroboration, it will not have been written in vain.
S. G. SOAL.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Zeitsch.f. Parapsychologie, April 1927. Mr. R. Lambert has a full article
on the sittings of the members of the S.P.R. with Mrs. Leonard,
in which he concludes that her phenomena are genuine, but that
it is not possible to decide between the alternative explanations.
There is a report of a sitting with Frau Silbert by Dr. A. v.
Winterstein. The discussion about Sundar Singh is continued by
Herr Pfister, and there are a number of minor articles, of which
the most interesting is an account of sittings with the Icelandic
medium Ni Indridason by Prof. Nielsson of Copenhagen. The
May number begins with a translation of E. J. Dingwall's Reijort on
" Margery " from Proceedings, Pt. 98. There follows a Report on
Eleonora Zugun by Dr. W. Kroner, secretary of a commission
which examined her from Nov. 1926 to Jan. 1927. Her pheno-
mena are declared to be supranormal in origin, although it is
admitted that she cheats when she can, and that they appear only
on such parts of her body she could have bitten or scratched.
124 Joiirval of Society for Psychioal ResearcJt <:)ctober, 1027
In view of this it is difficult to believe the assurances of the
experimenters that she was adequately controlled, the more so as
most (if not all) of the " bites " corresponded with the measure-
ments of her own jaws. Prof. C. Limmer discusses the Indian
rope-trick, and favours the theory that it rests on suggestion and
collective hallucination, but admits that this theory ought to be
proved experimentally. The June number continues the Margery
Report, and states Prof. Driesch's list of the alterations in the
conditions of experiment necessary to make Margery's sittings
convincing. It contains also three ghost-stories, of which two are
first-hand.
The Zeilsch. f. Kritischen Okkuliismvs, II. 3, starts with an article
by Prof. Dessoir of Berlin on the clairvoyant " Helene Schnelle,"
which is to appear in the forthcoming sixth edition of his book Vom
Jenseits der Seele. Prof. Dessoir reports experiments of his own
and of his friends in which the sensitive described the character
of persons unknown to her, and sometimes to her sitters, from
specimens of their handwriting. Her success seems to have been
very considerable though by no means uniform, and though Prof.
Dessoir points out that descriptions given will usually fit a number
of persons. The sensitive died in 1923. M. Paul Heuze describes
some sensational experiments which he made to test the " buried
fakir " stories. The only historical case which seemed prima facie
worth examining was one he found in Larousse's Dictionary, but of
which he could discover no English original. It tells, somewhat
inaccurately, the tale of General Wade's presence at the court of
Punjit Singh in 1838, when a fakir was exhumed who was said
to have been buried for six weeks with a guard set upon his
tomb. In the Larousse account an English officer (a midship-
man !) was said to have been present at the burying, and so
M. Heuze calculates the fakir could have been taken out again
after three-quarters of an hour. M. Heuze then heard that a
fakir had allowed himself to be submerged in a coffin in the
Hudson River at New York for a whole hour, and he determined
to repeat the experiment, and actually remained in a watertight
coffin for an hour and a quarter, the simple explanation being
that there was enough air in the coffin to enable him to hold out
so long. It is evident that his experiment disposes only of stories
about the burying of fakirs, and not of those which describe their
apparent lifelessness on exhumation ; to explain the latter, some-
October, 1927 Notes on Periodicals 125
thing analogous to animal " hibernation " would seem to be
required. Count v. Klinckowstroem has a short article on science
and fakirism, arguing that all the performances of the " fakirs
"
are tricks. Dr. v. Schuler has an obituary notice of Houdiui.
Mr. Dingwall has an article on the Soul of the Occultist, which
suggests that the investigation of occultism requires special train-
ing, and that in the absence of this men of science also are easy
to deceive. Dr. H. Rosenbusch continues his destructive criticism
of physical phenomena, and attacks Mr. R. Lambert's account of
Eusapia Palladino very elaborately. He denies, inter alia, that
the members of the S.P.R. Committee were exjaert conjurors, and
claims to derive evidence that they were tricked from their own
Report. There is also a picture of Houdini fabricating paraffin
gloves " with bent fingers. Count v. Klinckowstroem, in review-
ing Proceedings, Pt. 100, declares that cross-correspondences are
overrated in England and form '"
an enormous mass of dough with
very few raisins of questionable value.''
SeelenproUeme, No. 2, May 1927. This number is mostly com-
posed of theoretical articles, but V. v. Wrede relates his experiences
with " Nina," a trance-personality of Frau Ideler, who claimed to
be a Russian girl he had known twenty years before, spoke much
better Russian than her medium, and was instrumental in bringing
apports, mostly of flowers.
F. C. S. S.
The Revue Metapsychique beige (November-December 1926, January-
February 1927) publishes a lengthy account by J. Thiebault,
President du centre spirite de Mantes sjSeine, of the materialisation
seances at which he was present in 1926 in Mme. Alexandre's
circle at Mantes. On reference to the same review of May-June
1926 we see that these seances are an old story. " It will be
seven years in April 1926 since the Mantes-sur-Seine spiritistic
centre has given public proofs of the power of its psychic energy
;
seven years since the solution of the problem of survival can be
objectively met there " (B.M.B. May-June 1926). Since April
1922 Commandant de Marine Compana has directed the sittings
from the " spirit " side. The chief spirit manifesting herself at the
seances appears to be Mme. Alexandre's daughter Madeleine, who
died in 1919. Altogether four mediums have successively helped
the spirit to materialise, a certain Blaise operating since 1922.
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. October. 1927
(Before that date some sittings had taken place at Versailles in
1921.)
It may be said at once that the phenomena in question are
most su.'^picious. They must have made the same impression on
orthodox spiritualists, since the Revue Metapsychique beige of May-
June 1926 informs us that at the Paris Spiritistic Congress of
1925 M. Thiebault had not been permitted to lecture on the
Mantes phenomena !
The President of the Mantes centre spinte still firmly adheres,
however, to his belief in their authenticity, and on pp. 195-211
of the November-February number of the Revue we are treated to
a lengthy account of the performances in question, followed by
" scientific " and philosophic disquisitions. Various apparitions are
described, one claiming to be Joan of Arc.
All the phantoms appear to be very material, and M. Thiebault
describes Madeleine's " plastic pose of the most charming effect.""
In the Mercure de Fm)>ce of April 15 M. Rene Sudre mentions
very briefly Dr. Christian Winther's (of Copenhagen) experiments
in full light with Mile. Anna Rasmussen. A pendulum which
had been placed in a closed wooden box, and could not even
be seen from the outside, was repeatedly moved " telekinetically.'^
These movements were automatically registered on photograms, the
medium being placed at a distance of 3 metres 75 centimetres
from the apparatus. In 72 cases out of 78 the movements were
executed at the very moment the experimenter asked for them, as
was subsequently revealed by examination of the photogram.
M. Sudre also mentions in the same review Dr. Oskar Fischer's,
(of Prague) recent experiments with Rudi Schneider which were
apparently successful. The description, however, is far too brief
in M. Sudre's account to enable us to judge by ourselves of the
adequacy of the precautions taken.
The Revue Metapsychique (Paris) of March-April 1927 has a
very long article by Professor Cazzamalli of Milan on " Cerebral
radiations in face of ])ractical and theoretical criticisms." The
Italian savant answers his critics, and insists on the authen-
ticity of his experiments at great length. M. C. de Vesme prints
the sequel of his paper on " The part played by metapsychical
phenomena in the origin of religious beliefs." Many cases of
apparently supernormal incidents connected with various African
peoples and tribes are quoted, some of them striking. The most.
OCTOBBK, 1927 Notes on Periodicals 127
curious is taken from a book entitled Fleurs noires et dmes blanches
by Pere Trilles, a missionary (pp. 123-124). If in order to explain
it we do not admit " bilocation " (surely a hypothesis to be
avoided at almost any cost), we must postulate a veridical audi-
tory hallucination telepathically induced by the negro wizard in
accordance with the missionary's suggestion—and this at a con-
siderable distance. The case is very " uncanny." Pere Trilles,
M. de Vesme says, also described it in a public lecture delivered
in October 1906 before the Nantes Society of Commercial
'Geography.
On the other hand, the alleged telepathic or supernormal trans-
missions of messages among African tribes over great distances
•seem to be jjerfectly explicable by systems of signalling with
" tom-toms," etc., which do, in my opinion, much credit to these
savages' " ingenuity, and afford a perfectly natural explanation
of seemingly incomprehensible occurrences. M. de Vesme makes
mention of these systems, but does not seem to give this
•explanation as wide an application as it deserves.
In the Chronique M. Pascal Forthuuy gives some information
about a Brazilian medium, Mirabelli by name (of Sao Paulo),
Tvhose marvels are described in a pamphlet of 74 ]oages, published
in Sao Paulo by Rodolpho Mikulasch (Rue Ypirauga 50, in Sao
Vincente Santos). The phenomena—which, it must be admitted,
are far too good to be true,"—are attested by 555 witnesses,
among whom are 72 physicians- The marvels certified to include
apports and full-form materialisations in the physical line : in the
mental lino, long messages in English, Italian, Erse, Persian,
Dutch, French, Spanish, German, Catalan, Hebrew (Moses being
the communicator !), Bulgarian, Czech, Russian, etc. !
It would be curious to know to what modest dimensions all
these preposterous claims would dwindle supjjosing Mirabelli were
to appear at 31 Tavistock Square, or even at 89 Avenue Kiel.
Revue Metapsychique of May-June has a note on the Third
International Congress for Psychical Research in Paris ; an article
by Dr. Belbeze on " Cartomancy and Metagnomy "
; two notes
by MM. Andry-Bourgeois and M. Desoille on Prof. Cazzamalli's
" Cerebral Radiations " ; and another article of M. de Vesme's
on " Metapsychical Phenomena and Religious Beliefs." This time
supernormal or quasi-supernormal experiences are described in
connection with American and " Hyperborean " aborigines. There
128 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Octobeu, I92r
is nothing in the incidents quoted which could compare with
Pere Trilles' case. A " Causerie " by Prof. Santoliquido (President
of the International Metapsychical Institute) is printed, together
with an address by Prof. Charles Richet from which I quote
the following sentences :
" II y a done, autour de nous, d'innom-
brables et puissantes vibrations . . . Qui sait si I'ame des vivants,
si meme Vdme des morts . . . ne degagent pas des effluves inaccess-
ibles au vulgaire, capables d'emouvoir rorganisme des sensitifs et
de leur reveler, en de rapides eclairs, quelques fragments de la
realite qui nous encercle ?
In the Chronique M. Pascal Forthuny mentions the case of
a certain M. Augustin Lesage, a Pas-de-Calais miner, who suddenly
became a painter in obedience to a voice believed by him to be
external. He gave tangible proofs of his new faculty by working
at the Institute on decorative " panneaux " from 6th April to
10th May of this year. P.-P.-S.
The Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research for
July contains an article by Mr. Charles R. Wild on the medium-
ship of Mrs. Pruden. Mr. Wild has had frequent sittings with
Mrs. Pruden since 1906, and is convinced that the phenomena
observed are genuine. He describes an occasion in 1908 when a
message was written on the inner side of a closed slate during a
period when Mr. Wild was holding the slate continuously under
the table, the open side towards himself. The weak point of
Mr. Wild's testimony is that his contemporary notes—made for
his own use—are mainly concerned with the contents of the messages
received ; the physical conditions are only briefly noted, and in
recalling them Mr. Wild has to depend largely on his memory.
Mr. Harry Price contributes the first of a series of articles on
the recent opening of Joanna Southcott's box.
Monsieur Rene Sudre gives an account of a sitting with Rudi
Schneider at Braunau. The sitting was in the nature of a
demonstration and no attempt was made to enforce rigid con-
ditions. M. Sudre takes the opportunity to stress the importance
of training mediums to produce their phenomena in good light,
which he believes can be done.
There is also a report of a lecture by Mr. H. Ernest Hunt on
" Some Sleep Phenomena," and a short article by Sir Oliver
Lodge on the " Reality of Survival," reprinted from the St.
Martin's Review. H. de G. S.
No. 439.—Vol. XXIV. '
. .. .
November, 1927
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD AT
19B TAVISTOCK SQUARE. LONDON, W.C. i,
IN THE HASTINGS HALL,
ON
THURSDAY, DECEMBER ist, 1927, at 5 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
"The Case for Psychical Research,"
WILL BE READ BY
Sir OLIVER LODGE, F.R.5.
N.B. — Visitors will be admitted on production of an invitation card
signed by a Afember or Associate. Members and Associates will
be admitted on signing their names at the door.
130 Jcmrnal of Society for Psychical Research November, 1927
NEW MEMBEKS.
Arnold, Mrs. Henry, The Garden Club, 9 Chesterfield Gardens, May-
fair, London, W. 1.
Brown, Guy B., M.Sc, University College, London, W.C. 1.
Byng, E. S., Birdingbury Hall, nr. Rugby.
Dick, Mrs. J. H., Westhaven, Castlehill Road, Knock, Belfast.
Forrest, Mrs., Holkham, Wimbledon Common, London, S.W. 19.
Jaschke, Willy K., Ebing b/Bamberg, Bayern, Germany.
Lester, Mrs., Keynes Place, Horsted Keynes, Sussex.
McDougall, Miss Catherine J., 13, The Paragon, Blackheath, Lon-
don. S.P]. .3.
Seymour, Lady Culme, 9m. Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W.I.
Strachey, Mrs. St. Loe, J.P., 76 Chester Square, London, S.W.I.
Trautwein, Mrs. M. Edith, Rupp. Strasse 2, Freising, nr. Munich,
Trotter, Mrs., Norton St. Philip, nr. Bath.
White, Miss A. E., Woodbine, Pemberton, nr. LlaneUy, S. Wales.
Winby, Lieut. -Colonel L. P., 11 Trevor Square, London, S.W. 7.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 4:1st Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C, on Wednesday, October 19th, 1927, at
5 p.m., The Eight Hon. Gerald W. Balfour in the chair.
'There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mr. E. N.
Bennett, Mr. W. R. Bousfield, Professor E. R. Dodds, Mr.
J. Arthur Hill, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Sir Oliver Lodge,
Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter,
Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J.
WooUey ;
also, Mr. Theodore Besterraan, Hon. Librarian, and
Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct. . .
Fourteen new Members were elected. Their names and
addresses are given above.
The Chairman of the Library Committee made an announce-
ment as to a grant to the Society's Library from the Carnegie
United Kingdom Trust, with regard to which a fuller statement
is made elsewhere. .. .
November, 1927 Conversazione—Library Notice. 181
CONVERSAZIONE.
A Conversazione was held for members and friends in the
Lounge at the British Medical Association House, 19b Tavis-
tock Square, London, W.C., on Wednesday, October 19th,
1927, from 8 until 10 p.m. Dr. Walter F. Prince was
present, and gave an interesting account of sittings which he
had recently had with the mediums, Rudi Schneider, Frau
Silbert, and Jean Guzik.
Dr. Prince has been visiting Europe at the request of a
group of psychical researchers in the United States, to whom
he will present a full account of his investigations, which, it
is understood, will in due course be printed in America.
LIBRARY NOTICE.
Members will be glad to learn that a recent application made
by the Society to the Carnegie United Kingdom Trust for a
grant to aid the development of our Library has been success-
ful. The Trustees have generously granted the Society's
library £250 a year for four years for the purchase of books
and periodicals, and for arrears of binding.
Theodore Besterman, Hon. Librarian.
EXPERIMENTS IN LONG-DISTANCE TELEPATHY.
As a result of the B.B.C. experiment of February last the
Society proposes to continue its investigations of long-distance
telepathy, and to this end .has started a new series of experi-
ments on Wednesday evenings between 8-30 and 9 p.m.
A group of agents meets each Wednesday evening at 31
Tavistock Square and attempts to transmit impressions of
objects, ideas, etc.
It is hoped that a large number of our members will be
able to take an active part in these experiments, especially in
view of the light which they may throw upon the important
question of the extent to which mediumistic communications
are influenced by telepathy from the living.
A 2
132 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November, 1927
Will those of oiir members who are able and willing to
record their impressions between 8.30 and 9 jD.m. on Wednesdays
kindly communicate with Miss Newton or Dr. V. J. WooUey
as early as possible, marking the envelope " Distance Tele-
pathy " ? On the receipt of a letter expressing their willingness
to co-operate in the experiments by acting as percipients
members will receive full instructions as well as a notice of
the next experiment.
THE PARIS CONGEESS FOR PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH.
The Third International Congress for Psychical Research took
place in Paris from September 26th to October 1st (inch),
in the Amphitheatre Richelieu, Sorbonne.
The exact number of the persons present is unknown to
me ; it was from 200 to 250 I am told. The EngHsh S.P.R.
was represented by Mr. E. N. Bennett, Mr. W. H. Salter
and Dr. WooUey.
Professor Richet was Honorary President, and in spite of
his eighty years took a most active part in the proceedings.
Several countries were represented, but several delegates whose
arrival had been announced did not come. The German
delegates were especially numerous. Many speeches and
addresses were delivered in German, some at great length, and
so far as I know, no incidents whatever occurred in this
connection. Politically speaking, the atmosphere was decidedly
" Locarnian."
The " seance inaugurale " (Monday, September 26th, 9.30 a.m.)
was opened by two speeches : one by Prof. Richet, the other
by Professor Hans Driesch, the latter being entitled " On the
influence of Metapsychics on the general aspect of the Uni-
verse." Dr. Osty, the Director of the Institut Metapsychique
International, and M. Carl Vett, a Corresponding Member of
our Society, to whose labours those congresses are much indebted
also spoke.
The papers read I will divide into two parts : (1) those
dealing with facts (experiments, observations, etc.) ; (2) those
NovEirBEE, 1927 Paris Congress for Psychical Research 133
of a more or less theoretical character. The latter I shall
abstain from commenting on at all. Of course the precise
distinction is not always easy to draw and in one or two
instances the line of demarcation drawn may appear somewhat
arbitrary.
I will begin by the enumeration of the papers of the hrst
category, giving them in the order in which they were read ^
whether by the author or by some other person.
Dr. Cazzamalli, Milan : Electromagnetic waves in their connec-
tion with certain psychosensorial phenomena of the human
brain.
M. R. Desoille, engineer : Does there exist a bond between
states of consciousness and electromagnetic phenomena ?
Two very scientific, and also very technical, productions,
hardly suitable, I think, to such an audience as the Paris
Congress.
Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing, Munich : A case of production
of paraphysical phenomena at will.
In this paper a series of experiments is narrated with a
certain " Karl Weber " who is alleged to have produced very
remarkable physical phenomena, including levitation of the
human body, without falling into trance and losing conscious-
ness at all. " Weber has been repeatedly detected in fraud,
but the array of witnesses quoted by Dr. v. Schrenck is
certainly impressive.
Dr. Rudolf Tischner, Munich : The medium Frau Silbert
;
paraphysical observations.
A detailed and conscientious account, positive in character,
of two sittings for telekinesis with the Graz medium.
Me. Harry Price : Variation of temperature in the seance
room during experiments -with the medium Stella C.
Dr. G.-A. Weltz, Munich : Measuring of temperatures in the
seance room during mediumistic seances.
Mr. Malcolm Bird, Research officer of the American S.P.R.
:
Some observations on the medium Margery.
^ With possibly two or three slight inaccuracies in this respect.
134 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November, 1927
Dr. Reitz, Leningrad (St. Petersburg) : Ex'perimental re-
searches on jMranormal knowledge.
An account of a series of interesting experiments in thought
transference and clairvoyance. The summary of the paper
read at the Congress hardly permits one to arrive at a definite
conclusion, but the results look on the whole promising.
Dr. Verweyen, Bonn : The clairvoyant Fasfenrath of Cologne.
M. Lebiedzinski, Warsaw : Essay on Mme. Przybylska's mediuni-
ship.
Herr W. Wrchovsky : My experiments with the medivm
Dogma.
Dr. Walter Kroner, Charlottenburg : The Phencmena of
Eleonora Zugiin.
This paper was read by the Countess Wassilko-Serecki, and
was followed by very beautiful cinematographic films (the
" Emelsca " Co., Munich) representing Eleonora's stigmata (if
such a term is not inappropriate here). Of course, no hint
as to their origin was given by the film. The Countess spoke
also of her own observations.
Dr. Fischer, Prague : The 2jhenomenon of metagraphology.
An account of some experiments with R. Schermann and a
yoimg inhabitant of Prague called Reimann. Metagraphology
in Dr. Fischer's opinion represents a branch of what was
formerly (and is even now !) called psychometry.
Dr. Walter F. Prince (Boston) : Tivo cases of Paranoia
cured by expervnental evocation of alleged obsessing spirits.
An extremely valuable and interesting paper. Dr. Prince
relates how he was able to cure two cases of apparent spirit
obsession by taking the " spirits at their face value, speaking
to them "as a gentleman to a gentleman and gradually
persuading them to leave the patient. Of course, such a
result is very probably only a form of suggestion.
Rev. C. Drayton Thomas : An enquiry into the nature of
an emanation seeming to be related to the process of
tra nce communication.
This paper is based on 180 seances with Mrs. Leonard,
and is of a theoretical character.
November, 1927 Paris Congress for Psychical Research 135
Dr. Jean-Charles Roux and Dr. Francois Moutier, Paris :
The condition of metagnomic perception.
A careful and scientific record of experiments in telepathy
and clairvoyance (" psychometry ") with a certain Mme. X.,
extending over eight years. No incidents described, only
general conclusions given. Mme. X. is well known to Dr. Osty.
Dr. R. Lambert, Stuttgart : The degree of certainty attained
in paraphysical phenmnena.
This paper belongs properly speaking to the second category.
It is a spirited and intelligent attempt to vindicate the genuine-
ness of some at least of the experiments in telekenesis.
Dr. E. Kindborg, Breslau : The parapsychological problem
in hypnotism and magnetism.
An attempt to revert to the old mesmeric theory, the
influence of magnets on the human body, etc.
Herr Karl Krall, Munich. Two papers (1) The thinking
animals : (2) Telepathy between man and animal.
Herr Krall describes in detail the famous Elberfeld experi-
ments interrupted by the war, which ought certainly to be
renewed, however doubtful the justice of his thesis.
Dr. W. Neumann : My experiments ivith the thinking dog
Rolf. Observations on telepathy between man and animal,
with special consideration of the Bechtereff experiments.
A paper fatal to " Rolf's claims and to thinking dogs in
general. Dr. Neumann's view found in the Congress an
energetic champion in the person of Frau Professor Driesch.
Dr. Osty : Precognition of the individual human future
Enseignements experimentaux et directives de recherche").
A paper based, we are told, on seventeen years of researches
and two thousand sittings with fifty-nine different subjects.
No concrete cases given ;
only general considerations.
M. Rene Warcollier, Paris : Experiments in telepathy at
great distances.
Experiments between New York and Paris and vice versa
are described. Some of the results obtained are interesting.
Dr. Sanguinetti, Rome : An interesting case of premonition.
136 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November, 1927
Dr. Sanguinetti spoke also of some photographic experiments,
the medium being the notorious Erto.
Dr. TanAGRA, Athens, President Hellenic S.P.E. : The
telekinetic mediums in Greece.
Dr. Tanagra related also two remarkable cases of post
mortem apparition investigated by his Society, of which one,
where the deceased was seen by four persons at once (at
Naxos), is perhaps the most striking on record. The tele-
kinetic experiments and observations were much less impressive.
A paper by Dr. Joseph Bohm of Nurenberg, on Theresa
Neumann of Konnersreuth, which had been promised did not
apparently arrive in time.
I will now enimierate the papers of the second category :
Sir Oliver Lodge : Radiant energy and metapsychical pheno-
mena.
M. P. Lebiedzinski, Warsaw : A contribution to the study
of how to obtain the best results ivith mediums.
Professor K. Oesterreich, Tubingen : The problem of dis-
sociation of personality.
Dr. Sokolowski, Warsaw : A tentative explanation of the pheno-
mena of telejjathy and psycfioscopy.
Professor Hans Driesch, Leipzig : Biology and Meta-
psychics.
Dr. J. Maxwell, Bordeaux : The philosophy of life and
Metapsychics
.
Dr. W. Kroner, Charlottenburg : Psychology and psycho-
analysis.
Prof. Mikuska, Czecoslovakia : The great problems of Biology
and Parabiology in their (respective) relations.
M. Rene Sudre, Paris : The experimental method in Meta-
psychics.
Dr. E. Luisada, Florence : The contribution of Metapsychics
to the study of the human mind.^
M. Louis Favre, Paris : Metajjsychics in the classification
of sciences.
^ I do not know if this paper was read. —P. P. S.
November, 1927 Paris Congress for Psychical Research 137
M. P. SzMURLO, Warsaw : On the research for signs of meta-
fsychical faculties.
M. Carl Vett read a paper whose title I unfortunately
cannot give, dealing chiefly with India and the East in general.
The questions of terminology and of the date of the future
Congress were debated at special sittings, at which not beuig
a member (I attended the Congress as special representative
of a Brussels daily, Le XX Siecle), I was not present.
I will now make a few cursory remarks on those points
which particidarly struck me :
(1) All the papers read with one exception only, I think
(Dr. Neumann's report on Rolf), were of a positive character.
(2) No experiments of any kind appear to have been made.
It is true that M. Ossowiecki had to leave for Warsaw, and
that a Polish dog which was expected did not come in time.
(3) The English cross-correspondences did not play any part
in the work of the Congress. They were mentioned only
once, I beUeve, in Professor Driesch's papers and only by
name, everything going on exactly as if cross-corresjjondences
had never existed.
(4) It was stated by M. Osty in the course of the discussion
on Mr. Malcolm Bird's paper in defence of " Margery " that
a Dr. Menager had succeeded in obtaining casts of human
hands (artificially), imder conditions previously declared by
" experts " impossible (fingers of two hands interlaced). Such
casts were in fact shown us. Professor Ch. Richet commenting
on them stated that special precautions had been taken by
him during his experiments with Kluski to insure the use of
the paraffin brought by the experimenter and prevent sub-
Btitution, and this circumstance is important. Still the fact
remains that a phenomenon declared conclusive 'per se without
reference to the conditions under which it was obtained cannot
be considered as such any more.
(5) To me personally it was very interesting to hear from
M. Carl Vett in the course of the discussion which followed
his paper, that he had attended once in India a "rope trick"
188 Journal of Society Jor Psychical Research November, 11)27
performance during which he " saw nothing," that is, continued
to see the conjurer on the ground wliilst the other persons
present saw him chmbing up the air and vanishing. Evidence
tending to prove the possibiHty of mass suggestion whether in
India or elsewhere is very scarce, and every new addition to
it should be welcomed in the interest of true research.
P. P. S.
REVIEWS.
I. The Sixth Sense : A Physical Explanation of Clairvoyance,
Telej)athy, Hypnotism, Dreams and other Phenomena usually
considered Occult. Forty years of Study, Observation and
Experiment. By Joseph Sinel. With a Foreword by Mac-
Leod Yearsley, F.R.C.S., F.Z.S. London, 1927. T. Werner
Laurie. Pp. 180. 6s. net.
According to its " jacket " " this extraordinary book contends
that the pineal body in the brain of the higher animals is the
active agent in Clairvoyance and Telepathy. Mr. Sinel does not
merely advance theories—at every step he gives supporting evidence
. . . strong enough to stand up against any active criticism."
Mr. Sinel certainly rehabilitates the jiineal gland (which orthodox
science now regards as an atrophied eye), not indeed to its
Cartesian glory as the sole " seat " of the soul, but as the organ
for the reception of the effluvia and radiations which he believes
to account for the phenomena of telepathy and clairvoyance ; but
he can hardly be said to prove his case. The evidence on which
he relies is not presented in sufficient detail to carry conviction,
lacks corroboration, and is interspersed with amazing assertions
like " / never had a wrony reply "
(p. 143) from his chief medium,
a girl with whom he conducted experiments in " telepathy " from
1908 to 1917 (p. 49).
Now, it so happens that I was privileged to be present at
some of Mr. Sinel's experiments, and that a brief account of his
procedure will form the most effective criticism of his book. In
the winter of 1914 Mr. Sinel sent to my friend Dr. R. R. Marett
of Exeter College large numbers of drawings and reproductions,
which he said had been made telepathically by the daughter of
an old friend. The reproductions were remarkably good, both
NOVEMBKR, 1927 Reviews 139
better and more copious than any that had ever been recorded
in such experiments, and it seemed to Prof. M'Dougall and myself
a clear case for investigation. So in the Easter vacation of 1914
we set out for Jersey, and together with Dr. Marett, were admitted
to a sitting with the medium, a girl of about 15 or 16. We
soon found, however, that what happened was this. Mr. Sinel
would draw a picture, and the medium would say she saw
nothing. He would then draw a second picture and a third,
leaving the first exposed and easily visible on the table of the
small room. The medium would then draw the first picture, and
Mr. Sinel would hail this as a wonderful example of telepathy !
We. all thought this a complete explanation, though we did not
suppose that originally the girl had regarded the experiments as
other than a " game " (as indeed she called them, cf. p. 137) ;
but when Mr. Sinel interpreted his own carelessness as telepathy
in her, she found it impossible to undeceive him. Prof. M"Dougall
returned to Oxford next day, but I had another sitting with
Mr. Sinel and his " medium " in the Jersey Museum, of which he
was the Curator. Here the room was large and the pictures
were not exposed ; as I expected, therefore, the medium " could
see nothing." I thereupon wrote a letter to Mr. Sinel giving
him our explanation of the case ; to this he never replied (as
I supposed, because he could not), and I then reported the whole
case to the S.P.R. It now appears that he has recovered his
credulity, but I find it difficult, after this experience of his
methods, to credit his accounts of his other experiments. I feel
that they were probably vitiated by equally simple oversights,
and if Mr. Sinel wishes to be believed, he must provide indepen-
dent corroboration to authenticate his assertions.
F. C. S. Schiller.
II. Wissenschaftlicher Okkultismus. By Dr. August Messer.
Leipzig : Reulle and Meyer. 1927. Pp. vii, 151.
This excellent little introduction to Psychical Research is from
the pen of a professor of philosophy in the University of Giessen.
Professor Messer discusses the subject under five heads, historical
survey, parapsychic phenomena, paraphysical phenomena, mediums,
and attempts at explanation, and writes clearly and simply.
His attitude is scientific and moderate, and the conclusion he
140 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Novembke, 1927
comes to is that the question of the oripjiu of the phenomena
may well be left open for the j^resent, but that it is urgent to
improve the methods and equipment of psychical inquiry and to
train up inquirers who are able to devote themselves wholly to
the subject. F. C. S. S.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Seelenprobleme, Nos. 1, 2. V,)21 . These two numbers of the little
review published by the Riga Society for Psychical Research
contain interesting information chiefly about the mediums now
operating in Latvia. Three of these are mentioned :
" Paleas
"
(a pseudonym), Mme. Ideler (also a pseudonym), Mme. Katoda
(ibidem). The claim is made that the first is one of the most
powerful of living mediums.
So far as Physical Phenomena are concerned, the first two-
(Mme. Katoda is apparently no physical medium) seem to deal
chiefly in apports ; a circumstance to be regretted, seeing
that this particular phenomenon is certainly the most doubtful;
of all physical manifestations. Herr von Wrede describes (p. 58),
a seance with Mme. Ideler, at which " we distinctly saw how the
flowers, one might say, formed themselves between the (medium's)
hands ; that is, at first shapeless masses became visible which
grew bigger and bigger ; then they formed separate flowers. I
placed myself once behind the medium's back and watched the-
process over her shoulder, so that I could see the medium's bare
arms stretched forward before me." The light was however very
dim, there were from fifteen to seventeen sitters, which is far too
many, and I remember reading a somewhat similar account where
the medium was the notorious Anna Rothe ; which seems to show
that such observations do not necessarily imply the authenticity
of the occurrence. Everything depends of course on the personality
of the observer. The same Herr von Wrede describes an interest^
ing case where a trance -intelligence, claiming to be a former
woman friend of his, manifested repeatedly through Mme. Ideler.
Two incidents which appear to be supernormal are briefly described
in this connection. Prof. Blacher, the Editor of the review and
President of the Riga S.P.R., contributes a rather striking case
when the alleged deceased mother of a Herr Rheinwald manifested
at a seance of Mme Ideler's. Both Herr Rheinwald and his wife
NOVEMBEE, 1927 Notes on Periodicals 141
(evidence given) claim to have clearly recognised the deceased
by her phraseology and demeanour. Herr Rheinwald's mother
was a complete stranger to the medium.
Zeitschrift fur kritiscJien Okkultismus, II. Band, 4 Heft (July 1927).
Count Perosvky-Petrovo-Solovovo narrates again under the title of
" Anonymous Deceiver " the strange and instructive story of the
Russian chamberlain and diplomatist (also painter and alpinist), X,
(see S.P.R. Proceedings, Vol. 24, Part 54, and Journal, January
1924). Incidentally he mentions (p. 254) that there is not a
shadow of proof that X was ever in connivance with Sambor
:
a denial which in justice to the late Russian medium should not
be lost sight of. The gist of Count P.-P.-S's. paper is, of course,
to make clear that one of the chief difficulties in mediumistic
investigations comes not from the medium himself, but from some
of the sitters.
Dr. Richard Baerwald has an interesting and valuable paper on
" Hyperaesthesia and Clairvoyance." It seems to me that at the
bottom of this and similar discussions there is a singular mis-
understanding. Hellsehen ought not to partake of " God's Omni-
science " at all (p. 267) ; it may, supposing it to be authentic,
simply mean a form of direct jjerception hitherto unrecognised by
science, independent of thought transference, but deprived of any
metaphysical element. On the other hand. Dr. Baerwald is
inclined to give " hyperaesthesia " such an extension as to make
it practically almost indistinguishable from " clairvoyance " at a
short distance (p. 273). My conviction is that all such specu-
lative hypotheses are much too premature : we want facts, viz.
experiments.
This brings me easily to the subject of the late " Professor
"
Bert Reese, who is, in the same number of Z. f. hit. Okl\, the
subject of two interesting articles, one by Count Klinckowstroem,
the other by Mr. Dingwall. Much as I appreciate certain aspects
of the late Harry Houdini's work, I am glad to see his evidence
as given by Count K. supplemented by the personal experience of
our late Research Officer. I quite concur with Count K. when
he says that the researchers' next task is to test under crucial
conditions Ludwig Kahn.
Dr. Fournier d'Albe has a very brief paper, with three instruc-
tive photographs, on the Goligher circle. We learn from it that
the medium is now happily married, and does not apparently wish
]42 Joiirval of Society for Psycltical Research November, 1927
to be reminded of her recent antecedents and the tragic outcome
thereof.
Dr. Ubald Tartaruga, of the Vienna Parapsychical Institute, has
a severe paper on the Austrian managers or impresarios of
mediums.
Herr Friedrich Luther discusses the " theoretical possibility of a
physiological telepathy."
Zagaclnienia Metapsychiczne (Warsaw), December 1926. The
review begins with an appeal to its readers which, we hope, will
be listened to.
M. Stefan Rzewuski has a long article on sooth-saying and
metapsychics, with abundant quotations from Dr. Moll, Professor
Richet, Dr. Osty, A. Bozzano and others.
Dr. Watrasziwski describes experiments with Mile. Sabira (see
Revue Metapsychiqiie for January-February 1927).
M. Prosper Szmurlo has an article on " Psychometry and Archae-
ology," describing experiments made with M. Ossowiecki in a
recently-discovered crypt of the Royal Castle in Warsaw. Intro-
duced into the crypt, Ossowiecki put his hand upon a brick of the
wall on which a coat of arms was engraved and gave a detailed
description of the crypt as it may have looked in the fourteenth
century, mentioning the presence of prisoners and warders. It
has been subsequently ascertained that the crypt had been, in
fact, used as a prison. He also made other statements which
the investigators have not attempted to verify. M. Szmurlo
concludes that psychometric power can extend far away into the
past ; other researchers will probably prefer awaiting further
confirmation.
Zeitschrift fiir Parapsychologie, June 1927. A further trans-
lation of Mr. E. J. Dingwall's report on his sittings with
"Margery" is given (stances of 6th-19th of January, 1925). Pro-
fessor Hans Driesch follows with some suggestions re an improve-
ment of the conditions prevalent at these seances. Inter alia
he recommends that under no conditions should the medium's
hands be held by Dr. Crandon himself or one of his friends.
" It would be best if they were altogether away," he adds.
Several spontaneous cases of supernormal character are given
in the same number, some of which are striking. Heinrich
Freiherr Droste zu Hiilshoff of Miinster narrates an interesting
episode of apparent haunting coupled with teleliinesis (picture
November, 1927 Notes on Periodicals 143
twice falling off a wall, the second time into the fire-place where
it burns to ashes). Herr Erich Bogel recounts out of his own
experience apparent premonitions in the form of a whisper, occur-
ring in the so-called " borderland state (between sleeping and
waking). An extraordinary case of alleged post-mortem manifesta-
tions of a physical character (including direct writing by a visible
spirit hand) is quoted from Polish sources as having occurred
in the village of Ochotnik, Poland. Some of the manifestations
are apparently attested by a physician and a priest. It is to be
regretted that no thorough investigation of these incidents, how-
ever suspicious, seems to have been made by the Warsaw Psychical
Researchers.
Dr. Franz Freudenberg analyses briefly the official report recently
issued (Verlag von Karl Marhold, Halle a. d. Saale, 1927), on
the First General Medical Congress for Psychotherapeutics, held in
Baden-Baden in April, 1925.
Dr. Reddingius (The Hague) has an article discussing the spirit
hypothesis, and Herr A. Sichler attempts to explain a purely
subjective anthropomorphic hallucination from the standpoint of
psychoanalysis.
Zeitschrift fiir Parapsychologie, July 1927. The Editor, Dr.
Siinner, and Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing print two articles
in memoriam Professor Karl Gruber, who died on 18th June after
a long and severe illness. The deceased, whose services in the
domain of " Parapsychology " will not be forgotten, Dr. von
Schrench-Notzing says, is the author of several important works
and papers bearing on Psychical Research. He began to take
part in sittings with Willy Schneider in the beginning of 1922,
attended 33 of such seances, mostly controlling himself, and
became convinced of the genuineness of the phenomena.
Professor Ferdinando Cazzaraalli has a long paper on his cerebral
radiations, which is more or less identical with the one printed
in the March-April number of Revue Metajxsychique.
Dr. Angelos Tanagra of Athens prints a short account of
Poltergeist phenomena observed a few months ago at Missolonghi
by himself and a few other physicians, the supposed medium being
a thirteen years' boy called Christos Vourvachis. The account is
entitled Massensuggestion oder Ectoplasma ? but I do not feel sure
that the incident referred to is not susceptible of a simpler
explanation. The mysterious disajjpearance of the little bojr
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November, 1927
dressed in black seen by tbe seven signatories may have been due
to a perfectly natural cause ; the eighth- witness who claimed to
have seen and heard nothing may have been simply absorbed by his
thoughts (I do not wish to adopt a more uncharitable explanation).
Heinrich Freiherr Droste zu Miilshofi briefly narrates a case of
veridical vision at a distance ; and Dr. Wilhelm Platz defends
the right of the spiritistic hypothesis to be considered a " legiti-
mate " one.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, August, 1927. A detailed analysis
of a pamphlet on the Brazilian medium Carlos Mirabelli pub-
lished at Santos (Brazil: see Journal S.P.R., Oct., 1927, p. 127)
is printed. The phenomena described are said to be attested by
555 witnesses, out of whom the names of 277 are given. They
are so stupendous that one quite understands that the Editor
of the Z. f. Parapsychologie should have applied to the Brazilian
consul at Munich inquiring whether the names were familiar to
the latter, so as to feel sure that the pamphlet was no hoax.
The consul answered that seventeen of the persons mentioned
w^ere personally known to him, among them a former President of
the Republic (Senhor Souza), Senhor Reynaldo Porchat, Secre-
tary of State, Senator Muniz Sodre and Professor Olegario de
Moura of the University of Sao Paulo.
Among the phenomena narrated some materialisations occurring
at 9 a.m. in the daylight, the medium being both held and
visible, are the most stupendous. Among these materialisa-
tions there figures one of a whole human skeleton ! These
apparitions allow themselves, to be handled and touched, float in the
air, disappear gradually, etc. Many of them have been photo-
graphed. In spite of the numberless disappointments which
physical johenomena have brought Psychical Research, I certainly
agree with the author of the review of 0 Medium Mirabelli,
Resultado de un inquerito, that such evidence as this cannot be
ignored, and that this amazing personality ought to be tested on
European soil.
Professor Blacher, of Riga, describes some attempts at levitation
with the medium Frau Ideler, which, as he admits himself, are
not completely conclusive (p. 467).
Professor Hans Driesch has a concise and lucid paper on
"Theoretical Methods as a frame-work in Parapsychology," which
will well repay perusal.
November, 1927 Notes on Periodicals 145
A lecture on " Entelechy and Form " given by Professor K. C.
Schneider before the Vienna Parapsychical Institute is reproduced ;
and Dr. Gustav Zeller speaks in the words of highest commenda-
tion of Edward Reimpell, a Hamburg charact>erologist and clair-
voyant.
In the same number of the Z. /. ParapsycJwIogie several spon-
taneous cases are given ; the two most interesting are contributed
by Dr. E. A. Glogau, of Frankfort o. M. ;
they deal with influence
telepathically exerted by dying persons at a distance.
Revue Metapsi/chique, July-August, 1927. Dr. E. Osty prints
in this number a long paper on " Practical utilisation of Super-
normal Knowledge," dealing chiefly with cases where attempts are
made to trace dead bodies or lost objects through " metagnomic
"
power. Dr. Osty begins by narrating briefly a case dating as
iar back as 1692 (the Jacques Aymar case), published at first
in the Mercure Galant of October, 1692, and reprinted in 1693,
at Lyon (Amaubri), under the title of Traite de la Baguette). To
my mind the behaviour of the clairvoyant in this instance, as
well as in some further cases (Abyssinian) briefly mentioned further
on, presents a striking similarity to the behaviour of police-dogs
Avhen on the track of a criminal. Dr. Osty then relates a long
series of incidents out of his own experience obtained through a
French subject, Mme. M. In a few of them the information
given corresponds with actual facts ; in others, the clairvoyant
derives the knowledge shown, Dr. Osty thinks, from the
psychisms of other persons ; there are also cases in which she
Jahulates (sic) on her own account. Incidentally, Dr. Osty rejects
the assertion that telepathy may be regarded as excluded if the
person or persons present have no knowledge of the facts given
by the clairvoyant, and seems to regard the operation of tele-
pathy at a distance as an established fact.
M. de Vesme prints a further instalment of his interesting
paper on " The part played by metapsychical phenomena in the
origin of Religious Beliefs." This time he deals with Oceania
and Java. Reference is made to a case already printed in the
E. M. in 1926 (No. 3, p. 226), and taken from the Reviie Mondiale,
where a certain M. Jean Dorsenne asserts he was able to see in
the crystal used by a Tahitian sorcerer a vision already seen by
a native consultante. An article by a Dr. Gerstaeker, a resident of
Java, published in Die Gartenlaube of 1871, is quoted from for
146 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November, 1927
the Guendarma cases : this being, it is alleged, the native terra
for stone throwings of an apparantly supernormal origin. The
incidents in question are curious, but unfortunately recorded long
after the event itself.
M. Henri Azam prints a short article on Professor Cazzamalli's
experiments. He thinks they leave us " in a state of absolute
uncertainty (p. 297) ; on the other hand, he considers that they
may have a scientific portee much greater than the one which
the Professor attributes to them.
" The Human Fluid and the proofs of its existence " are dis-
cussed in the Chronique. References made to two articles printed
in the Revue Gencrale de VJ^lectricite of January 22, 1927, and in
the Revue Polytechnique de Geneve, November, 1926, where experi-
ments are described, tending to prove that there does really exist
" a physiologico-physical agent frequently though irregularly
emitted by the human body." This " agent " has been chris-
tened " I'Anthropoflux R."
Zeitschrift fur psychische Forschung, August, 1927. Dr.
Pagenstecher, of Mexico, narrates the personal experiences which
induced him to " revise " his Weltanschauung, including various
incidents connected with his investigation of Mme. Maria Reyes de
Z.'s psychometric power and Dr. Walter F. Prince's journey to
Mexico, and some knockings of unexplained origin occurring in the
dead of night in June, 1921.
Professor Dr. Christoph Schroder prints the first part of a.
report on " the metapsychical phenomena of Frau Maria Rudloff
"
(a German physical medium of doubtful reputation). Frau
Rudloff's dermatic phenomena are dealt with. They closely
resemble those of Eleonora Zuglin, the Rumanian medium. The
incidents described refer to the period October 9th to December
12th, 1926. In most cases —though not in all —the scratches,
etc., appear on Frau R.'s arms, neck, wrists, etc., when the
medium is uncontrolled : in the few cases where there was control
it ie perfectly conceivable the medium could have eluded it. On
the other hand we are repeatedly told that the Ritze, etc., were
stark blutende, and this circumstance will perhaps be regarded by
some as a difficulty in the way of a normal explanation.
Dr. Mathiesen is pursuing his study of the trance-phenomena
from the standpoint of a spiritistic interpretation.
November, 1927 Notes on Periodicals 14-7
Volume III. of the series Der Quell des Wissens ^ (Psychology
contains an excellent study by Count von Klinckowstroem on
Occultism." The Count has succeeded—which is almost a tour
de force—in compressing the whole subject into twenty-one pages.
The author's [standpoint is very negative as to physical pheno-
mena : still he says, [a propos of Willy Schneider, that Dr. von
Schrenck-Notzing's experiments with this medium afiord us for
the first time the hope that there may after all be paraphysical
phenomena. I note what seems to me a slight error, in
the beginning of the "chapter" on "paraphysical" phenomena.
Parapsychical phenomena, Count Klinckowstroem says, date back
far into the history of mankind, whilst physical phenomena seem
to be an invention of the nineteenth century and of the American
fraudulent mediums. The long series of Poltergeist cases extend-
ing through two or three centuries, and long before the HydesviHe
or Rochester knockings, seems to me to refute the Count's assertion.
I think it would not be difficult to maintain the opposite point
of view, viz. that the Fox sisters and other American mediums
did " innovate " not so much in the physical as in the psycho-
logical and intellectual domain, and in fact it cannot be denied
that automatic writing for instance, at least automatic writing
systematized and on a wide scale, begins only after 1843.
Mercure de France, September 15, 1927. M. Rene Sudxe
analyses in detail Professor Hans Thirring's Position of Science in
relation to Psychical Research, printed in No. 6 of The British
Journal of Psychical Research. Readers of that paper will re-
member that it was WiUy Schneider who was instrumental in
bringing about the distinguished Austrian physicist's conversion
to belief in telekinesis.
M. Sudre then briefly relates a sitting of his own with Rudi
Schneider at Braunau, which gave him every satisfaction. (Cf.
the July number of The Journal of the American S.P.R.) The
manifestation which struck him most was the materialisation in
red light of a hand having the perfect appearance of a human
hand {minus two fingers) and endowed with " extraordinary
agdity." This hand's contact gave one the impression of a
" chamois glove," a remark which may possibly afford more
material for reflection than jM. Sudre thinks. I need not point
-out that from the evidential standpoint such seances in the
jnedium"s family circle are of small value. P. P. S.
1 Berlin, 1927.
148 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November, 192T
Omission. {Revue Metapsychique, March-April 1924).
M. Warcollier prints under tlie title of " Telepathic Reciprocity
"
two incidents which occurred to the brothers Rehaut. The first
is an impression (unexternaJised) coinciding with a motor accident
occurring to the percipient's brother. The second case is connected
with an ascent of the Pic du Midi, in the Pyrenees, made by one
of the brothers, the other, who only knew him to be at the
Bagners hospital, also in the Pyrenees, experiencing a very vivid
sensation which corresponds with actual fact. Here also, though
the coincidence in time and name concerning the Pic du Midi
may be regarded as striking, we have hardly to deal with an
actual externalisation.
P. P. S.
EREATUM.
(Journal for July, p. 108, line 20.) In the reference to the
article published in Psyche on the Schneider mediumship, for
Jiine issue should be read issue for April published in June.
No. 440.—Vol. XXIV. . .
December, 1927
JOURNAL
'
_ OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NEW MEMBEES.
Brackenbury, Mrs., Flat 5, 162 Westboume Terrace, Hyde Park,
London, W. 2.
Bulford, Staveley, 20 Eaton Terrace, Eaton Square, London, S.W. 1.
Chance, Lady, 1 Oakwood Court, London, W. 14.
Goldney, Mrs, A. Peel, c/o Lloyd's Bank, 6 Pall Mall, London, S.W. 1
.
Jones, Professor B. M., Engineering Laboratory, Cambridge.
Patten, Henry J., Ill W. Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
RigO de Righi, Mrs., c/o The Bank of Australasia, 4 Threadneedle
Street, London, E.C.
Sheldon, Joseph Harold, M.D., M.R.C.P., Airedale, Eegis Road,
Tettenhall, Wolverhampton.
Smith, Lady Sybil, Mitford House, Lennox Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
WagStafF, Mrs., The Firs, Roundham Hill, Paignton, Devon.
Wedd, Nathaniel, King's College, Cambridge.
Wilde, Mrs. G. C. A., Greenhill, Thorncombe, Chard, Somerset.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 42nd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Thursday, December 1st, 1927, at
3 p.m., Mr. J. G. Piddington in the chair. There were also
present: Mr. W. W. Baggally, ]\Ir. E. N. Bennett, Mr. W. R.
Bousfield, Mr. G. W. Lambert, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr.
W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and
Dr. V. J. WooUey ;
also, Mr. Theodore Besterman, Hon.
Librarian, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research decembee, 1927
Tlie Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Twelve new Members were elected. Their names and
addresses are given above.
The Chairman of the Library Committee reported on the
work done since the reorganisation of the Library began on the
first of April.
The Hon. Treasurer made a financial statement in regard to
the expenditure that had already been made in connection with
the reorganisation of the Library and the approximate estimate
for expenses still to be incurred. A discussion followed as to
the best means of meeting this expenditure.
The Monthly Accounts for October and November, 1927,
were presented and taken as read.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 172nd General Meeting of the Society was held at 19b
Tavistock Square, London, W.C., on Thursday, December 1st,
1927, at 5 p.m.. Sir Lawrence Jones in the chair. The
Meeting had been arranged for the Hastings Hall, but the
attendance was so great that it was necessary to transfer the
Meeting, after it had begun, to the Great Hall.
Sir Oliver Lodge read a paper on " The Case for Psychical
Research," which is now pubhshed in The Outline (November
26th and December 3rd).
After reading the paper Sir OHver Lodge related several
interesting incidents in his own experience.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING.
Preliminary Announcement.
The Annual General Meeting of the Society (for business
purposes only) will be held on Monday, January 30th, 1928,
at 3.30 p.m., at the Society's Rooms, 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1.
Decembeb, 1927 Significance of Gross Correspondences 151
ON THE SIGNIFICANCE OF CROSS-COERESPONDENCES.
By Sir Oliver Lodge.
I SEE that Mr. Hall, in the Proceedings} raises an objection
against the idea that cross-correspondences in general have any
bearing on the question of survival ; inasmuch as their claim,
to eliminate telepathy between living people, and to be the
result of a continual urge from some unknown centre of
intelligence to attract attention to some theme—admittedly and
purposely so wrapped up as to be only decipherable with diffi-
culty and ingenuity,—is not substantiated. He suggests other
explanations, and virtually implies that to get rigorous proof
of survival by cross-correspondence one would need something
much more stringent,—something akin to a person in China
who knew nothing of Europe wTiting a European message,
unintelligible except to one particular individual, who on his
part should at the same moment, or at least on the same
day, get a precisely similar message, both purporting to come
from the same deceased person, and both involving one and
the same meaningless array of letters and numbers. Let us
suppose that such a thing was accomplished, what would
happen ? Suppose a Chinese gentleman were to find his hand
writing what to him would be utter gibberish, how long would
that script be able to escape the wastepaper basket, if they
have such things in China ? Furthermore, if the scripts
desired by Mr. Hall were both produced, and did both escape
destruction, and if they were brought together and submitted
to some British Museum or Royal Society expert, would he or
anyone be likely to jump to the singular conclusion that they
proved survival ! Would he not regard them as evidence of
obvious collusion ?
It seems to me that an irrefragable proof of survival is
imobtainable, and that it is a mistake to lay down conditions
such as there is no hope of satisfying, and to say that if
such conditions were satisfied they would constitute the irre-
fragable proof desired. In a laboratory we are not accus-
tomed to dictate to phenomena, but to accept what we find,
^Proc. S.P.R. Vol. xxxvi, p. 4.55. A final reply by Mr. Hall to Mr. Piddington
is printed below, p. 155.
A 2
152 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Decemrer, 1927
and to draw deductions ; —taking advantage sometimes of even
the vaguest hint, but afterwards taking care to develop any
ideas so formed and subject them in due course to critical
examination. Most of the discoveries that have been made
have been inspired in the first instance by such vague and
transient hints that only a man of genius could learn any-
thing from them, or even pay attention to them : most people
would not notice their existence.
I suggest that Mr. Piddington's treatment of cross-corre-
spondences is in accordance with ordinary scientific procedure.
But we may be grateful to Mr. Hall for taking the trouble
to experiment with his friends as to the kind of literary hotch-
potch which would be stimulated by the bare outline of a
theme suggested to people of fairly wide reading.
THE PRESENT STATUS OF DOWSING IN
THE BRITISH PRESS.
By Theodoee Besterman.
It has been said more than once (most recently and judiciously
by Mr. Piddington ^) that the verdict awaited by the worker in
psychical research is not that of the specialist in any orthodox
science, but that of the intelligent man in the street, the
verdict, in short, of Dr. Broad's " enlightened common sense.''
And it will no doubt be generally agreed, however cynical a
view one may take of the ethical standards of the Press,
that the writers in our general newspapers do fairly accvirately
represent the trend of public opinion in neutral and non-
political matters. I have therefore attempted the following
analysis of newspaper opinion on a single specific subject
studied by psychical research, namely, dowsing.
The passages examined are all the reviews that have reached
me of a recent book on this subject, with the exception of
six reviews in periodicals (such as Light and The Occult Re-
view), which might be considered prejudiced. The following
table is self-explanatory (I have reproduced the reviewers' own
1 " Presidential Address," Proc. S.P.B. (July 1924), xxxiv. 138-139.
Decembee, 1927 The Status of Doiusing in British Press 153
words where some doubt remains whether these do actually
accept dowsing) :
Name of
Periodical.
Date. Name of Writer.
Birmingham Oct. 16, 1926. —
Post.
Daily Sept. 29, 1926.
Chronicle.^
Daily Sept. 21, 1926. J. M. Bulloch.
Graphic.
Daily Neius. Sept. 28, 1926. —
Daily Sept. 24, 1926. —
Telegraph.^
Evening Sept. 21, 1926.
Standard.
Glasgow Sept. 30, 1926. —
Telegraph.
Indian Nov. 6, 1926. —
Engineering.
Ironmonger. Nov. 13, 1926. —
Manchester Sept. 21, 1926. J. M. B[uUoch].
Dispatch.
Manchester uct. lu, lyzo. J. W. Gregory.
Guardian.
Morning Sept. 17, 1926.
Post.
Municipal Dec. 16, 1926. —
Engineer.
Nature. Feb. 26, 1927. H. E. iVIill.
New Dec. 25, 1926.
Statesman.
Newcastle Sept. 25, 1926.
Weekly
Chronicle.
Notes and Oct. 23, 1926.
Queries.^
Opinion.
" It must be a robust scepti-
cism, however, which re-
mains whoUy unshaken ..."
" [the ordinary reader] will be
content to class dowsers
with those many things
wliicli must be taken for
granted without explana-
tion."
None stated.
Noiie stated.
" The evidence for this form of
divination is so overwhelm-
ing that it cannot be dis-
missed as mere supersti--
tion."
Accepts dowsing.
Implicitly accepts dowsing.
Accepts dowsing.
Accefits dowsing.
None stated.
Rejects dowsing.
None stated.
Rejects dowsing.
Accepts dowsing.
"... a probability remams
that some of these people do
have physiological reactions
in the neighbourhood of
hidden spruags. ..."
Considers that dowsmg is
]3laced " definitely on a
scientific footmg."
Accepts dowsuag.
The same review appeared in the Scarborough Post, Dec. 9, 1926.
^ The same review appeared in the Yorkshire Evening News, Sept. 25, 1926.
^ This review was followed by a prolonged debate between other readers and
myself, lasting from the 6th of November 1926, to the 5th of April 1927.
154 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Decembek, 1927
Name of
Periodical.
Date. Name of Writer. Opinion.
Observer. Oct. 3, 1926. Arthur Machen. Accepts dowsing.
Observer.'^ Nov. 21, 1926. Sir W. Beach Accepts dowsing.
Thomas.
Pearson\s April 30, 1927. J. G. Implicitly accepts dowsing.
Weekly.
Royal March, 1927. Gen. Sir Hugh Accepts dowsing.*
Engineers B. Bnice-
Jo7irnal. WilUams.
Saturday Jan. 22, 1927. " The case [for dowsing] . . •
Revieiv. is a fairly convincing one.
Scotsman. Nov. 1, 1926. " ... entitles what is popu-
larly known as '
dowsing '
to
serious investigation."
Spectator. Oct. 9, 1926. — None stated.
Sunday Sept. 26, 1926. — None stated.
Times.
Times Oct. 7, 1926. Accepts dowsing.
Literary
'
Supplement
Water and April 20, 1927. — None stated.
Water
Engin eering.
Yorkshire Sept. 29, 1926. " There seems to be good
Post. groimd for the belief that
'
dowsing '
or '
water divin-
ing '
will be placed definitely
on a scientific footing."
We need, not attempt to assess the value of those reviews
which are couched in vague or non-committal language, though
it is reasonable to point out that a reviewer who rejects the
claims made for dowsing would have no reason for hesitating
to say so, while one who accepts them might well think it
diplomatic to disguise his opinion. Apart from these, however,
the striking fact emerges that out of 28 reviewers only two
(or a little over 7 per cent.) refuse to countenance dowsing as
^ These were followed by an interesting letter from Mr. Clifford Bax, on
the 28th of November 1926.
- The reviewer wrote :
" The conclusion to which the military reader . . .
must come is. that an experienced dowser should be available at liL'ad-
quarters of any fores in the field to assist the engineer officers responsible
for water supj^ly. The want of such an expert was severely felt in the
Soutli African War. Many lives would have been saved and much fruitless
labour avoided if an experienced dowser had been available, for instance,
during the long halt at Modder River." This review was followed by an
article in the June number, by Lieut. -Col. Hugh Rose of Kilravock, himself
an amateur dowser, and by a letter from myself in the September issue.
Decembek, 1927 Correspondence 155
a reality. On the other hand nine reviewers (or a little over
32 per cent.) definitely accept dowsing, while 10 more (or
nearly 36 per cent.) appear to share this opinion. Seven
reviewers (or 25 per cent.) have completely succeeded in hiding
their opinions.
I will not attempt to erect any elaborate arguments on these
facts, but simply leave them as they stand : sufficiently remark-
able to be worthy of record.
COREESPONDENCE.
I. Concerning Me. Piddington's " One Crowded Hour of
Glorious Life."
To the Editor of The Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—While reading Mr. Piddington's original paper ^ I
experienced a concomitant feeling of surmise (Can Cross-corre-
spondences provide evidence for survival ? etc. ^). The surmise
seemed pertinent ; and it seemed probable that other readers
might have experienced a similar feeling coinciding in time with
their perusal of that paper. These reflections I expressed at
rather less length in the words, " These are the questions which
Mr. Piddington's article raises." Is it not gratuitous to suppose
that other readers can have confused this with the totally dif-
ferent statement, " Mr. Piddington has raised these questions " ?
Nevertheless, had I in fact been concerned specifically with his
personal opinions, as expressed in his paper, I should still (though
of course in a different form) have been supporting a normal
against a supernormal explanation ; for Mr. Piddington finds
himseU " unable to resist the conclusion that many of the coinci-
dences . . . are due to some one's intelligent design "
(p. 346).
It would occupy too much space to recite the abundant evidence
that other sentences in my criticism failed to convey their mean-
ing to Mr. Piddington.
In his reply to me (Vol. xxxvi, p. 471) Mr. Piddington repeats
words which in his original paper had already amazed me. He
declares that he prefers a supernormal to a normal explanation, unless
the normal explanation can be set forth in detail. I can only reply
that I prefer a normal explanation where one is possible : and
1 Proc. S.P.R. Vol. xxxvi, p. 345. ^ proc. S.P.R. Vol. xxxvi, p. 455.
156 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December. 1927
that when he demands that the normal explanation shall be
detailed, he is asking to have set forth in detail the unexpressed
thoughts of people, in an abnormal condition, who are unknown
to the critic
!
The suggestion that experiments should be carried out raises
an important consideration. To test the scope of associations in
automatic scripts we must work with automatists themselves.
Now, would not an experimenter, faced with this very difficult
task, find himself forced to adopt conditions closely similar to those
in the " Crowded Hour " ? The object of an experiment being
results, he would choose conditions favourable to results. That
his automatists should possess similar mental contents is, of course,
a sine qua non. This means, practically, that they should share
common habits of life and thought. A further desideratum would
be a commonly shared emotional belief or attitude towards life,
since emotion appears to be an important factor in determining
the direction of subconscious trains of thought. His chief diffi-
culty would be in finding a method of supplying a common
" starting point." We all know how to supply a stimulus in an
ordinary association test ; but who knows what is palatable to
the " automatic " mind 1 or how to feed that mind at all
Would not the experimenter probably fall back on the plan of
making his automatists supply their own stimulus by allowing
them to circularise (shall I say when the spirit moved them ?)
occasional extracts from their own scripts ?
Are not these very much like the conditions in the "Crowded
Hour"? And had the object of the "Crowded Hour" experiment
actually been the testing of associations, would Mr. Piddington
have regarded the correspondences as positive results ? or would
he have declared the experiment spoiled owing to unpremeditated
interference ab extra ?
A. F. Hall.
II. Two Personal Experiences.
To the Editor of The Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—The following cases may be of interest as illustrations
of telepathy of sorts :
I may say that, so far as I am aware, I am not exceptionally
December, 1927 Correspondence lo7
psychic, nor have I gone into much experimental investigation of
spiritualism or kindred subjects.
(a) Some years ago I used to keep bees, but on account of
not having sufficient leisure to attend to them properly, I had to
give them up, but have always retained my interest in their
natural history and management. It is, however, necessary for
me to state that I have never contemplated nor entertained any
idea of again becoming a bee-keeper.
On the 8th of last month (July, 1927), I was spending the day
at Westward Ho ! which is about five miles away as the crow
flies, and at just about mid-day was looking at some bees on
blackberry blossoms growing in a lane there, when the thought
came suddenly into my mind in a most forcible manner :
—" Why
not keep bees again ?
"—and this kept dwelling in my thoughts
for some time, to the exclusion of everything else. When I
returned home to Great Torrington in the evening, I was told
that a swarm of bees had settled in my garden, and they had
been "shaken" and taken away. The time at which the swarm had
arrived was just mid-day.
I enclose a corroborative statement from Miss Dorothy Green,
who was in charge of our house whilst my wife and I were at
Westward Ho !
Aug. 18, 1927.
On Friday morning the 8th of July last Mr. and Mrs. Doe
had gone to Westward Ho ! leaving me in charge of their
house " Enfield," Great Torrington. At as near about 12
noon as I can judge, I saw a swarm of bees come and settle
in a Standard Climbing Rose Bush on the Lawn in front of
the house.
I let them pitch there, and in the afternoon sent to a
gardener who keeps bees, and he came with a box and
shook the bees into it and took them away.
DoBOTHY Green.
(&) One night, whilst in my home in Great Torrington, I
dreamt that I was in Fleet Street in London, and I went into
a jeweller's shop there with the watch which I was wearing and
got it exchanged for another with a peculiar face and hands,
which very much attracted my fancy. On coming out of the
shop, and taking the new watch out of my pocket to have a
158 '
Journal of Society for Psychical Research December, 1927
look at it, I found tliat it was a complete fraud, consisting of
nothing but a face and hands, without any works inside. I
then woke up, probably from the shock of my discovery, but soon
dropped off to sleep again, but not before I had distinctly heard
a clock in the house strike 12 o'clock. In the morning I went
to my office as usual, without any further thought of my dream,
and at mid-day, I took out my watch to see whether it was
lunch time, but as it stood at 12 o'clock exactly, I resumed my
writing. After some time I again looked at the watch, and then,
for the first time found that it had stopped at 12, presumably
the preceding midnight, when I had my dream. I usually keep
my watch during the night a little distance from my bed, but
the distance may have been short enough for me to have heard
it ticking, and I may, therefore, have subconsciously noted that
it had stopped, and hence my dream.
George M. Doe.
[There is, of course, no evidence of anything supernormal in
the second incident, but it seemed worth recording as an instance
in which the external stimulus forming the point de repere of a
dream seems to be definitely traceable. Ed.]
REVIEWS.
I. Mind and Body, A Criticism of Psychophysical Parallelism. By
Hans Driesch. Authorized Translation with a Bibliography
of the Author by Theodore Besterman. Methuen & Co.,
London, 1927. Pp. xviii, 163. 63. net.
This is a translation, under the author's supervision, of the third
edition of a work first published in 1916, and Prof. Driesch has
also added a short preface to it. In it he explains that he con-
siders normal psychology to be sufficient to refute psychophysical
parallelism and to establish the theory of interaction, and has
therefore " left out all '
abnormal ' phenomena," although his
" personal conviction is that abnormal phenomena, and psychical
research in particular, is the most important part of all psycho-
logy."
Bearing in mind this self-imposed limitation, the gist of Prof.
Driesch's argument may be stated as follows, in his own words
(pp. 94-5). " The physical thing consists of very few elements,
December, 1927 Reviews 159
and perjiaps of only one ; the mental '
thing '
comprises a large
number of difierent kinds of psychical '
elements.' And besides we
see that in the physical all relations between the elements, apart
from their capacity for action consist of variations of the relation
near ;
among the psychical elements, on the other hand, there
exists a great variety of difierent kinds of relations, and relations
not only of meaning, but also of the kinds of connexion. How
then can the mental thing find its '
parallel representative '
in the
realm of physical things ? Such a representative seems to be
quite impossible. For it is a logical contradiction to assume that
two things, one of which is of quite a difierent degree and kind
of manifoldness than the other, can be ultimately the same—and
such is the teaching of parallelism. It is thus unthinkable that
a given condition of the brain, which is in fact a given material
thing, is '
on the other side '
a mental thing, that is, a given
mental experience-content. . . . Thus ordo et connexio rerum can
not be idem as ordo et connexio idearmn, because the structure of
the particular res is wholly difi:erent from the structure of the
particular idea, in every respect, and most especially with regard
to the degree of manifoldness."
On this argument it may be remarked, first, that it attacks
psychophysical parallelism as a dogma about the relation of body
to mind, and does not touch it when it is merely conceived (more
reasonably) as a principle of metJiod. Secondly, it rests on the
belief that the physical and the mental may both be analysed
into " elements," and is exposed to all the difficulties which this
notion involves. Thirdly, even if it is accepted as it stands, it
is difficult to see that it proves as much as Prof. Driesch claims
for it. It hardly follows that psychophysical parallelism is
" impossible." All that can be said to have been shown is that
parallelism renders meaningless a gTeat deal of psychical variety.
This renders it seriously objectionable, but hardly impossible.
Fourthly, Prof. Driesch's negative criticism evidently needs to be
supplemented by a positive account of the function which the
physical performs for the mental : this account, moreover, must
not, in affirming the reality of the mental, render the physical
meaningless in its turn. Lastly, Prof. Driesch's argument is so
technical that it is hardly likely to commend itself to the plain
man, and so to dispose of parallelism in practice. Something
simpler and more " einleuchtend " would seem to be required.
I(j0 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Decejiber, 1927
Now this can, it seems, be obtained from the " transmission
"
view of the function of body in relation to mind, which used to
be advocated by William James, but is not mentioned by Prof.
Driesch.
Mr. Besterman's translation reads well, though it has a few
misprints and errors. Thus on p. 2 the printing of " mental
"
for " physical " in line 7 makes nonsense of the argument. On
p. 92 " Evidenz " should have been translated " self-evidence,"
not " evidence," which has acquired a different meaning in English.
There are misprints on pages 14 and 91 (" der " for " des ").
I have been unable to detect on what principle the bibliography
is ordered : it begins with an item from 1905 and ends with one
from 1910, while extending from 1890 to 1927. One result is
that a chronological " key " has had to be added to it.
F. C. S. S.
II. The Divinity in Man. By John W. Graham, M.A., D.Litt.
George Allen & Unwin, Ltd. 10s. 6d. net.
This book elaborates and develops the thoughts in the first
book of the author's earlier work, The Faith of a Quaker.^ The
name of the author will commend this new volume to a wide
circle of readers, including many who do not belong to the
Society of Friends. It consists of a series of lectures on a number
of different subjects, all of interest to the student of mystical
religion. Writing from the standpoint of one who bases his
faith on experience rather than authority, the author handles his
material in a scientific temper which will appeal to the student
of psychical research.
A complete summary of the book would be out of place in
tliis review, and the following comments are directed to those
portions which bear upon the work of the Society.
The first five chapters deal with tlie Nature of God, and the
problems involved are mostly outside the scope of psychical
research. Mention must be made of the author's theory of
Prayer, on account of the use he makes of the fact of telepathy.
He recognizes two types, the receptive prayer, whereby the soul
" draws upon the energy of God " (p. 42), and the transmissive
prayer, the object of which may be another person. Of the
1 Reviewed in the S.P.R. Journal for Dec, 1920.
December, 1927 Revietvs 1()1
second type he says, " These shooting darts of prayer sometimes
appear, so far as we know, to strike their object direct, and then
we call them '
thought transference,' though it is possible that
they may have passed through some spiritual centre, an '
answerer
to prayer,' on the way " (p. 41). It is clear from another
passage that the author does not envisage any other than a
personal object, for he says, " Natural forces, the subject-matter
of physics and chemistry, biology and physiology, are not subject
to a spiritual force like prayer, which has its own great sphere
elsewhere "
(p. 65). If by " thought transference " Dr. Graham
means the phenomena of telepathy generally, it must be borne
in mind that " moment of death " incidents, for example, include
not only phantasms attributed to telepathy, but also, in rare
cases, telekinetic phenomena (see e.g. Journal S.P.R., Vol. IX.,
pp. 280-84, cited by Myers, H.P. 868B ; also Proceedings S.P.B.,
Vol. VII., p. 154, cited by Myers, H.P. 925A). This suggests that
both types of incident are due to some psychic force which may
in some cases " impinge " on inanimate objects, though usually it
produces hallucinations. Moreover, the " force " is by no means
always voluntarily released, and often acts in a very bizarre and
puzzling fashion. Prayer, on the other hand, is a consciously
initiated spiritual activity. It has its own treasury of experiences,
and is hardly to be identiiied, in any of its forms, with thought
transference, whether spontaneous or experimental.
In Chapters VI. (on the Subliminal Man) and VII. (on Inspira-
tion) the author passes on to explore " the human side, the
organ of Religion in Man." Here he takes Human Personality as
his guide, " a book," he says, " likely to fill, I believe, a place
analogous to that of T?ie Origin of Species in human thought. . .
."
An outline of the steps which led up to the formation of The
Society for Psychical Research (of which the author has long been
a member) is followed by an appreciative description of its method.
The main argument of both chapters proceeds on lines familiar
to readers of Frederic Myers' work, and need not be recapitulated
here.
Chapter VIII. is a lecture on Plotinus. Many students of
psychical research will be grateful for this valuable summary of
the teaching of a philosopher who exercised so considerable an
influence over the mind of Frederic Myers. It is questionable,
however, whether so much space should have been devoted to
162 Journal of Society for Psychical Research decembeu, 1927
the stories wliicti Porphyry tells us to emphasize the superior
psychical powers of his master. The reader, despite warnings to
adopt a critical attitude, is left with the impression that there
may have been mysterious forces at work. But with the excep-
tion of the story of the telepathic impression which Plotinus
received of Porphyry's intention to commit suicide, verified at the
time, and told us " first hand " by Porphyry himself, none of
them is worth relating, except to illustrate contemporary beliefs,
or Plotinus' attitude towards them. The story of the evocation
of Plotinus' familiar spirit by the Egyptian priest is open to the
gravest suspicion. The conduct of the priest is consistent with
his having used two methods of decej^tion well known to fraudulent
mediums in all ages. First, the place for the " seance " was
" forced " on Plotinus and his friends, on the ground that the
temple of Isis was the only pure place that could be found in
Pome. Secondly, just after the apparition had appeared, and
before anyone could question it, the priest's " friend " caused a
diversion by " strangling the birds," and no doubt misdirected
the attention of the onlookers for a precious moment or two
while the " apparition " disappeared.
The remaining eight chapters are mainly concerned with the
history, thought and practice of the Society of Friends. The
student of psychical research will be interested in the chapter on
the subliminal self of George Fox, but he may find difficulty
in accepting several of the interpretations placed upon George
Fox's " premonitory " visions. Fox, like many other religious
geniuses, often had visions of terrifying or catastrophic events,
and it is fatally easy to find such visions " verified " in the light
of after events, of which they were not genuine premonitions at
all. When the visions are symbolic, the risk of misinterpretation
is greatly increased. Both the nature and symbolism of such
visions are probably due to psychological causes, and the hypo-
thesis of prevision should only be invoked when all others have
failed. On the pitfalls attending those who handle " prophetic
"
material, the reader should consult Father Thurston's little work,
The War and the Prophets (Burns and Gates, 1915).
G. W. L.
December, 1927 SJwrt Notices 163
SHORT NOTICES.
John C. Leonard, The Higher Spiritualism. 8vo, pj). 466. New
York: F. H. Hitchcock, 1927. Price $4.50.
Books surveying tlie Idstory and alleged phenomena of spiri-
tualism multiply apace, each adding very little to the one before.
The present volume is typical of this kind of publication. It
contains few downright mis-statements, being characterised rather
by a general looseness of terminology and of interpretation.
Difficulties experienced by Spirit Controls. 8vo, pp. 19. [London,
1927.] Not for sale.
This pamphlet consists of automatic writing from the hand of
Miss Jessie C. Niven, who supposes it to be a message from a
" former control," in which he outlines the methods by which
those seeking to get into communication with spirits can facilitate
the process. The same lady has previously published similar
volumes of scripts.
C. E. M. JoAD, The Mind and its Workings. 16mo, pp. 80.
London : Ernest Benn, Ltd., 1927. Price 6d. net.
Mr. Joad has added to Benn's Sixpenny Library another of his
admirable essays in the popularisation of psychology and philo-
sophy. He runs rapidly through the various theories according
to which the mind is either an aspect of the body or distinct
from it, then discusses the mind as an activity, and concludes
with the theory of the unconscious. A brief, and not altogether
happily chosen, bibliography is added.
C. JuDSON Herrick, Fatalism or Freedom : a Biologists Answer.
8vo, pp. 106. London : Kegan, Paul, Trench, Trubner and
Co., Ltd., 1927. Price 2s. 6d. net.
This very sensible little contribution, by a member of the
University of Chicago, to a very big problem, comes to the con-
clusion that real freedom is freedom by adaptation, that is,
natural freedom.
DoM CuTHBERT BuTLER, Westem Mysticism. 8vo, pp. xxxii.
352. Second edition. London : Constable and Co., Ltd.,
1927. Price 12s. net.
Dom Cuthbert Butler's book has acquired a considerable reputa-
tion as one of the best defences of the Roman Catholic approach
164 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December, 1927
to the problems of mysticism. In the present second and con-
siderably enlarged edition he further consolidates his position by
a discussion of criticisms of his first edition and of recent con-
tinental works on the same lines.
W. Y. Evans-Wentz, The Tibetan Book of the Dead, or The
After-Death Experiences on the " Bardo " Plane. 8vo, pp.
xliv. 248, 11 plates. London : Oxford University Press,
1927. Price 16s. net.
Some day psychical research will have to take into account,
when studying the evidence for survival, the beliefs held in this
connexion by the several religions and peoples. It will have to
be ascertained whether below these beliefs there is any sub-
stratum of evidential matter. When this day conies, such works
as the present, with its careful and detailed account of one phase
of the problem, will be found very useful.
Th. B.
H. A. Dallas, Leaves from a Psychic Note Book, with a Prefatory
Note by Sir Oliver Lodge. Pp. 154. London : Eider and
Co. Price 5s. net.
Miss Dallas needs no introduction to members of this Society,
to many of whom her earlier books will be known. The book
here noticed is mainly concerned with " the relation between
religious belief and the facts studied in psychical research," and
we may join with Sir Oliver Lodge in commending it '"to the
attention of readers and inquirers who wish for sane and helpful
guidance in thinking over these somewhat difficult and controversial
matters."
H. DE G. S.
A review of the interesting " Case for Survival," which Miss
Nea Walker has recently compiled under the title of The Bridge
(Cassell and Co., Price 21s.) has been written by Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick and will be published in Proceedings early next year.
The object of this note is only to bring the book to the immediate
notice of our members.
December, 1927 Notes on Periodicals 165
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
•Zeitschrift filr PampsycJiologie, September, 1927. Four authors
contribute in this number papers or letters on the " Methodo-
logical Problem of Occultism " : Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing, Pro-
fessor Driesch, Professor August Messer and Professor Daniel Walter.
In Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing's paper there are many shrewd
remarks but few new data. An electrical ajjjjaratus for con-
trolling the medium's feet and hands is again described (cf. Z.
fiir Parapsych. for September, 1926), and it is very satisfactory
to read that it was successfully used at seances with Willy
Schneider from May, 1926, to February, 1927. It reaUy seems
that in this Schneider case we are nearer a decisive proof of the
reality of Physical Phenomena than we have ever been before.
The other three writers are chiefly concerned with certain state-
ments made by Dr. Baerwald, the learned Editor of Zeitschrift
filr hitiscJien OMultisnius, in particular with the statements that
"negative observations ^ [in an experiment] are decisive in every-
thing, positive ones in nothing " and " one negative observation
. . . naturally destroys all positive ones." Professor Walter quotes
a saying of Du Prel's, who takes a standpoint diametrically
opposed to that of Dr. Baerwald, and—with perhaps some reserva-
tions—it is difficult in this matter not to agree with Du Prel
(and Professor Driesch, whose concise and brilliant letter to Dr.
V. Schrenck-Notzing is printed in the same issue).
Heinrich Freiherr Droste zu Hiilshoff prints a note on the
supernormal powers alleged to have been possessed by Annette
Droste, a German poetess (born 1797). We are promised some
further details as to the most extraordinary of them : ivasser-
treien = walking on the water !
A translation of Mr. Harry Price's account {Journal of the
American S.P.R., January, 1927) on experiments with Eleonora
Zugun is printed. Dr. Tischner makes some critical remarks on
Professor Cazzamalli's latest report on his " rays " ; whilst Herr
R. Lambert vigorously criticises Mr. H. D. Bradley's methods of
investigation as displayed in " The Wisdom of the Gods," though
admitting the evidential character of some of the " spirit
"
messages recorded in the work in question.
^ By " negative observations " are meant observations showing that the
phenomena observed have a normal cause.
166 Jaurnal of Society for Psychical Research December, 1927
Dr. Gr. Zeller has a short article on the late Baron Hellenbach
(born on September the 3rd, 1827 ; died in October, 1887).
I note a few lines signed Max Seiling, in which Mr. Hereward
Carrington is held up to ridicule for " the most absurd way
"
in which he attempted to prove some years ago (in the Proceed-
ings of the American S.P.R.) the inconclusive character of the
account of a sitting at Helsingfors at which Mrs. D'Esperance's
legs dematerialised (1893). I may mention that M. Aksakoff
himself, who investigated this incident, has admitted that " from
the standpoint of impartial criticism " the phenomenon in question
" cannot be regarded as positively established " (Materialy ... o
materialisatsii, St. Petersburg, 1899, p. 235). Herr Seiling also
mentions a case when a medium's left arm dematerialised com-
pletely in the presence of Professor Haraldur Nielsson.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, October, 1927. We have first a
series of articles on Professor Hans Driesch, whose sixtieth birthday
was celebrated on 28th October : a short notice by Dr. Silnner,
a paper by Dr. G. Zeller on " The importance of Parapsychology
for Driesch's Metaphysics," a dialogue by Herr 0. Heinichen on
" The Connection between Driesch's Philosophy and Parapsycho-
logy." We then have the text of a brilliant address on " Para-
psychology and Philosophy," delivered by Professor Driesch at a
" Symposion " held in November and December, 1926, in Wor-
cester, Mass.
An article is then reproduced from the Deutsche Allgemeine
Zeitung of 7th August, 1927, in which a certain Herr Walter
Boehmer narrates some personal experiences of his in the Calahari
desert (South Africa) with a native wizard named Alcuib. These
experiences are interesting, but to consider them as evidentially
conclusive from the point of view of the reality of witchcraft
would be as unscientific as to reject the possibility of something
resembling witchcraft en bloc and a priori.
Dr. Renz of San Francisco then briefly narrates some " occult
"
experiences of his, among them a case of automatic writing which
suggests unconscious thought transference coupled with the writing
of a few words in French, which language, it is alleged, was
completely unknown to the automatist.
Mr. Harry Price's paper on " The Phenomena of Rudi Schneider
"
(at Braunau) is reproduced from the Journal of the American
S.P.R. In judging this account it should be borne in mind that
PECEAfBER. 1927 Notes on Periodicals 167
a recent series of sittings witti this medium at Stuttgart in the
presence of an eminent representative of Psychical Research out-
side Europe proved unsatisfactory, and that there was an incident
suggesting collusion (from information communicated to me verbally
by one of the observers)—not to mention the Vinton account in
Psyche (April 1927).
From a series of short notices I select a reprint by Dr. Ivlasi
of Kiissnacht (Zurich) of a brief account of a poltergeist case at
Gurun Lawas, near Padang, Sumatra, which account originally
appeared in the Sumatrabode of 5th November, 1926. For some
reason or other the Dutch Bast Indies seem to have peculiar
attraction for the agencies—whatever they are—which are behind
these " phenomena."
Professor D. Walter of Graz devotes two or three pages to a
somewhat doubtful professional clairvoyante " Dagma " (who was
also the subject of a paper at the Paris Congress) ; and Dr.
Seeling, Berlin, briefly refers to the acquittal of a certain Frau
Direktor Giinther-Gefiers, prosecuted for fraudulent clairvoyance.
Zeitschrift fur Psychische Forschung, September and October, 1927.
Prof. Christoph Schr5der of Lichterfelde has a paper on the
" dermatic " phenomena of Frau Rudloff ; and another on the
Moll-Rudlofi (Vollhardt) trial. He is again most affirmative as to
the genuineness and as to the external—to the medium
—
(exogen)
character of the phenomena, and the " negativists " are again
handled by him with his usual sans faron. A series of four
cinematographic reproductions of an " ectoplasm " said to have
developed dn or out of the medium's right wrist is given :
whatever the real conditions, these reproductions certainly do not
bring us one inch nearer to the question of authenticity. I am
afraid to the layman they are likely to suggest a mere—hand-
kerchief.
Prof. Dr. R. A. Hoffmann of Vienna describes some spiritistic
sittings in Carinthia (not attended by himself) in 1913 and 1914 ;
and Prof. D. Walter of Graz narrates in terms of the greatest
enthusiasm a case of " direct " violin playing (under the table) in
the presence of the medium Frau Silbert and her daughter.
Dr. Emil Mattiesen continues his discussion of trance phenomena
from the spiritistic standpoint.
Revue Metapsychique, September-October, 1927. A short notice
is published on the third International Congress for Psychical
168 Journal of Society for Psychical Research dkoembeh, 1927
Research (26th September-2nd October), and part of a speech
pronounced by M. Jean Meyer, the founder of the Institute at
89, Avenue Niel, at the banquet at the end of the Congress is
given verbatim. Dr. Osty's paper read at the same Congress,
on " Precognition of the individual human future," is then printed.
M. de Vesme concludes his long study on " the part played by
metapsychical phenomena in the origin of religious beliefs."
In the Chronique, of which the author is now M. Maurice
Maire in the place of M. Pascal Forthuny, my attention has been
arrested by a short note entitled " Home and Count Joseph
Primoli." It is said in this note that a M. Jules-Bois, who seems
to be a well-known personality, relates " in one of his articles
"
(chapter and verse not given) how he once asked Count Primoli,
a friend of the Empress Eugenie, to enquire from her about the
medium Home ;
whereupon the Empress confirmed to him that
Napoleon III. had verily caught this medium in the act of
simulating in the dark (" dans Vomhre ") a supernormal contact
through his " ape-like " foot " gloved in india-rubber." M. Maire
reproduces d ce propos a statement by du Potet, the well-known
magnetiser, which is somewhat euphemistically couched, but
leaves no doubt as to his suspicions. " Le doute est entre dans
mon dme " (chapter and verse again not given). It is not so
much, I think, the fact itself of this " Imperial " exposure which
is so unfortunate for D. D. Home's reputation as the circum- |
stance that the action of feet is so often suggested by accounts
of his later phenomena.
An article on " Religion and Metapsychics " is reproduced from
the Intransigeant which is interesting because due to the pen of
a Roman Catholic personality, Pere Mainage, Professor of the
Paris Ifistitut Catholique. The article is quite sympathetic to
Psychical Research : another proof of the extreme elasticity of re-
Ugious opinion when faced with very numerous and delicate problems.
M. R. Warcollier has a long and interesting paper on experi-
ments in telepathy at great distances conducted by his group in
1925-1926. The article is profusely illustrated, and some of the
coincidences obtained are undoubtedly striking, although sometimes
it seems to me that M. Warcollier finds a " transference of an
idea or part of an idea " where a sceptic will see nothing of the
kind.
P. P. S.
No. 441.—Vol. XXIV. Januaky, 1928
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
CASE.
L. 1282. A Name given in Automatic Writing.
We have received the following account of a personal experi-
ence from Miss Nea Walker, a Member of this Society and
Secretary to Sir OKver Lodge. The incident occurred in the
following circmnstances : in the spring and early summer of
last year Dr. Howard Warner, a medical practitioner, had
some sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott, the appointments
having been made for him anonymously by Miss Walker.
Miss Walker has for some time been in the habit of making
appointments for sitters in this way, and it is important to
note that she had never met Dr. Warner and the whole of
the correspondence which had passed between them up to
the time of the incident here recorded has been shown to
the Editor, j\'Irs. Salter. Statements on this point from Miss
Walker and from Mrs. Salter are printed below.
On October 8th, 1927, Dr. Warner sent to Miss Walker
some notebooks containing the record of his sittings with Mrs.
Warren Elhott, saying he should value any comments she
might make on them. On October 14th, Miss Walker replied
at some length ; the main part of her letter consists in a
discussion of Dr. Warner's records, the only part of it which
concerns us here is the postscript
:
P.S. Has a word or a name, Levey, anything to do with
you ? I don't suppose so, but while I was reading your notes,
I noticed that someone from " over there " was apparently near, and
I picked up a pencil expecting the name of one of the Group,
if anything. It simply wrote what looks Uke the above word.
170 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January, 1928
I thought nothing of it, thinking it a muddle and just my mind f
working. Then, as I read on, I came to the fact that one of
your wife's initials was L. [Dr. Warner's wife was the purporting
communicator at his sittings.] So I feel I had better tell you,
though it does not seem to me at all likely to connect, and to
be much more likely to be something out of my mind which did
not develop. I wasn't paying much attention and was going on
reading, and I have not a strong faculty, it is only in fits and
starts that I ever get anj^hing evidential. A sort of comfort
from a sense of " their " presence without being able to distin-
guish any individual, is what I get.
To this letter Dr. Warner replied as follows on October 15th,
1927:
. . . Your postscript in which you very evidently placed no
faith has knocked me " all of a heap " and only goes to show
how they are trying by every means to re-assure us. My dear
wife had two only very special friends in girlhood both of whom
she kept up with after marriage though at a distance. One was
named Levey (as you say and not a common name).^ She married
an Austrian Count and went to live in Silesia before the war
and of course during the war correspondence was impossible.
We often spoke of her and wondered if she was still alive, as I
believe the " Russian steamroller " was pretty active there early
in the war. My wife would know that I should recognize the
name I am sure, and as it came while you were reading her
messages surely it was another attempt to communicate . . .
Howard Warner.
On October 28th, Miss Walker wrote to Dr. Warner saying
that Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, to whom she had mentioned the
incident, thought it worth recording in the S.P.R. Journal.
She asked Dr. Warner whether he would have any objection
to this and also whether he could say what had become of
his wife's friend, or alternatively would state that he had no
information on this point. In reply to this letter Dr. Warner
wrote as follows :
1 It is worth noting that the name Levey (so spelt) occurs only 21 times
in the London Telephone Directory, as compared with 424 occurrences of
•"
Levy," and about 2400 occurrences of " Smith."
January, 1928 Case 171
2Wi October.
... Re the Levey " episode by all means use it and with-hold
nothing, I often think it is such a pity that what evidence we
do receive should be mutilated, as it often is, because people
will not have the courage of their convictions. As far as I can
tell you the name " Levey " has not been in my thoughts for
6 or 7 years, it is 20 years since I saw her, but my wife used
to speak about her and wonder how she was getting on (before
my wife passed on in 1920). " Levey " was the maiden name of
her friend and before marriage she and my wife were very dear
friends and I used to hear a lot about her. I know nothing
about her now and cannot find out anything . . .
If you think the " cricket shoe episode " in notes of my sitting
with Mrs. Warren Elliott is worth publishing, I will gladly write
it up. It is difficult to see how this could be explained by
telepathy from the living and you have seen the bill from the
school bootmaker verifying the supply of the shoes . . .
Howard Warner.
In sending to the Society her record of the " Levey " incident
Miss Walker wrote to the Secretary, Miss Newton, as follows :
November 17, 1927.
" Levey " Episode.
The enclosed correspondence with Dr. Warner, of Fakenham,
Norfolk, will explain to you why I head my letter thus . . .
The only comment I think you would ask from me is in con-
nexion with the little bit of script (one word) I got and which began the
tale. What makes me, of late years at any rate, pick up a pencil
thinking " someone " may be wishing to send a message, is
always a feeling of having been touched. The " touch "—I don't
know what else to call it—mostly occurs on my right cheek,
about the cheekbone. It is cold, slightly prickly (this not always),
and there is a feeling of suction. I do not know if you have
«ver noticed boys playing with little hollow india-rubber things
tied to a string, which seem to stick to the pavement ? I haven't
seen them for years, and don't know what they are called ; but when
I feel this touch it reminds me of those toys,—I can only suppose
because there is a feeling of suction and hollowness, and a sort
of rubberlike coldness. If I feel the touch on my head instead
172 JournaL of Society for Psychical Research January, 1928
of on my cheek, it feels like rubber fingers filled with something,
the suction is gone. And sometimes it is only a kind of tickling
sensation across the top of the head. If the room is quiet, there
is sometimes a kind of buzzing noise ;
or, at other times, something
which sounds like a very distant telephone conversation in a
rather high key, no words distinguishable. One, or a combination,
of these sounds and feelings is what starts me thinking " some-
one " has come. And it was that suction-touch which led to
my taking ujj a pencil on the day when, you will see, I got the
name Levey while reading notes of sittings which Dr. Warner had
had with Mrs. Warren Elliott . . . Nea Walker.
With the other documents relating to the case Miss Walker
sent to the Society the original script. It is headed in Miss
Walker's writing as follows :
While reading Dr. Warner's notes, 14th Oct., 1927, felt some one
and got this, before I reached fact that L was an initial.
This note was added by Miss Walker when she discovered
in the course of reading Dr. Warner's record of the sittings
that L was an initial of his wife's. The original script con-
sists of the single word " levey," faintly but clearly written.
In reply to an enquiry from Mrs. Salter as to what evidence
there was that Miss Walker could not have derived a know-
ledge of there being some connexion between Dr. Warner and
the name Levey from any normal source, Miss Walker wrote
as follows :
Dec. 8th, 1927.
You ask whether I can show that I could not have known
normally of a connexion between Dr. Warner and the name
Levey which came in my script.
I think I can do that quite satisfactorily.
I have never met Dr. Warner, so that it could not have
shpped out in conversation.
I have all his letters to me, and copies of mine to him. He
first wrote to Sir Oliver Lodge for help, on hearing the paper
which was read at the S.P.R. on the White Case. The letter
(date, 11. November, 1925), came on to me in the usual course of
events. I replied, and a few letters passed between us then
;
and since then, at intervals of several months, we have corres-
Jantjart, 1928 Case 173
ponded. But Dr. Warner only -wTote when lie had questions to
ask on mediumship, its development, etc., or when, this spring
and summer, he wished me to make anonymous appointments
for him.
I will enclose the whole correspondence, so that you may see
that my answer is fair.
I ought perhaps also to say that there was nothing in the
records or annotations of the sittings (which I saw, for the first
and only time, in October, 1927), giving any connexion with the
name Levey. In fact the word was written before I saw that
" L " was an initial belonging to Dr. Warner's communicator.
Nea Walker.
In corroboration of Miss Walker's statement ]\Irs. Salter
writes thus :
December, 11, 1927.
I have read the whole of the correspondence between iliss
Walker and Dr. Warner referred to in her letter of Dec. 8th,
1927. It covers a period from November 11th, 1925, when Dr.
Warner first wrote to Sir Oliver Lodge, saying he would like to
have a sitting with a medium, to October 6th, 1927.
I have found nothing in this correspondence which might have
suggested to j\Iiss Walker that the name Levey had any con-
nexion with or interest for Dr. Warner. H. r>E G. Salter.
Concerning the " cricket-shoe " episode referred to above,
Dr. Warner wrote to Mrs. Salter as follows :
2nd. December, 1927.
Miss Nea Walker has sent me on your letter and I am very
glad you think our two little bits of " proof " are worth publica-
tion . . .
I have fuU notes of my three sittings with Mrs. Warren Elliott,
they were very good but of course the vast bulk of true state-
ments are capable of the telepathy explanation, the case I am
relating is not. Howabd Warner.
With this letter Dr. Warner enclosed the following state-
ment :
2nd December, 1927.
My wife passed over in 1920 and the following episode occurred
at the second of these sittings I had this year with Mrs. Warren
174 Jotirnal of Society for Psychical Research January, 1928
Ellliott. The sitting was on June 2, at Mrs. Elliott's house, at
3.30 p.m. and only Mrs. Elliott and myself were present. I took
notes of what " Topsy " [Mrs. Warren Elliott's " control "] said.
These sittings were kindly arranged for me by Miss Nea Walker
and the medium had no knowledge of me whatever beyond the
fact that I was due for a sitting on June 2, at 3.30 ; even now
she does not even know my name.
After many statements which though perfectly true, were capable
of explanation on the hypothesis of telepathy from myself to the
medium, " Topsy " said :
You are daddy to this lady's children . . . The boy is a real
man, she (my wife) says. He very excited about some
sport or game. You bought him something new for sport.
Excited. Is it boots ? Heavy boots. White boots. Not
white now, black now, she says (with a laugh).
I have two children, a son and a daughter, and my son aged 13
had returned to boarding school at the beginning of May, I had
certainly not bought him any white boots, to do with games,
before his return to school and I did not know of any having been
bought for him subsequently.
The first information I had to show that the statement was
viridical was on July 26 when I received a bill (which I enclose)
from the school boot maker showing that on May 6th the school
authorities had ordered him a pair of cricket shoes, nailed. My
son had not mentioned this in any letter and I had not seen him
since his return to school. The shoes certainly were rather black
than white by the time he returned home for the holidays.
The bill enclosed was for a pair of cricket shoes for " Master
Warner " and is dated. May 6, 1927.
CORRESPONDENCE.
I. " The Master Builder."
To the Editor of The Journal of the S.P.R.
October 15, 1927.
Dear Madam,—Mr. Piddington's notable article on the Master
Builder cross-correspondence suggests a few comments, which,
though belated, may I think help a little to elucidate the problem.
Jakuart, 1928 Correspondence 175
(1) Is not the fall of Oedipus referred to, as well as that of
the Sphinx ? Mr. Piddington remarks (p. 499) " Oedipus was
presumptuous neither towards man nor God." But Sophocles
clearly intended him to be an example of v/3pis. Gp. the com-
ment of the Chorus (O.T. 873 ff.) J'/ipts (f^vreveu rvpavvov {'>/3pis . .
.
uKporara ^yt'ur' dva/Saa' *u7roT/^oTarai' wpovcrev tis dvdyi<a\'. (" Insol-
ence breeds the tyrant ;
Insolence . . . when it hath scaled the
topmost ramparts, is hurled to a dire doom!" Jebb.) "The
tone of Oedipus towards Creon (esp. 618-672)," observes Jebb,
" suggests the strain of warning rebuke." Even more, perhaps,
his outrageous treatment of Apollo's prophet Teiresias. If this
was not exactly to "usurp the place of God", it was to defy
God, and the doom of the insolent man, hurled down at the
moment of apparent triumph is closely parallel with those of
Satan and Solness. The idea of destiny seems to be prominent
in all three stories. Cp. Mrs. King's scripts, 460 (E) and 509.
(2) May not " book four " in E refer to Paradise Regained,
iv., which contains the narrative of the temptation on the pinnacle
of the temple, and the allusion to Oedipus ?
(3)
" Epithalamium " (C and G). Is it too fanciful to regard
the " mighty song " which Hilda heard in the final scene as not
merely Solness' defiant declaration, but a kind of epithalamium
celebrating the achievement of his spiritual union with her, whom
he intended to embrace on his descent? "Greeting" (in G),
refers plainly, I think, to the gesture of greeting which Hilda
sees Solness make from the tower, and the greeting which she
gives in return.
(4) A " cornerstone " is no doubt generally a foundation-
stone (p. 494), but sometimes, I think, the apex of a building,
e.g. in Psalm cxviii, 22 :
" the head stone of the corner " (a passage
quoted five times in the N.T.). Cp. Zech. iv, 7 : "he shall bring
forth the headstone thereof with shoutings," also Job, xxxviii, 6f.
Cf. :
" Who laid the corner stone thereof [of the earth], when
the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted
for joy ?
"
Yours faithfully,
A. B. GouGH.
Mr. Piddington writes in reply :
I should like to thank Dr. Gough for his remarks on my paper,
which I have read with real interest even when I dissent from them.
176 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Januaey, 1928
In view of the reference Dr. Gough gives to Soph., Oed. Tyr.,
873, I admit that my statement that Oedipus was presumptuous
neither towards man nor God needs toning down.
There is nothing, however, to show that the scripts under
discussion allude to this particular passage in the Oedipus Tyrannus :
on the contrary, Mrs. Salter's script explicitly, and Mrs. King's
script implicitly, refer to the guessing of the Sphinx's riddle by
Oedipus. Hence I cannot agree that the scripts intend to give
Oedipus as an example of " the doom of the insolent man,
hurled down at the moment of apparent triumph," like Satan
and Solness. And Dr. Gough's suggestion to this effect seems to
me to be open to two other objections. In the first place, it
would represent Oedipus as himself falling and in the same
breath as the causer of another's (the Sphinx's) fall. And in
the second place, it would equate a purely metaphorical " fall
"
(i.e. the fall of Oedipus) with the falls of Mulciber, Satan, and
Master Builder Solness, which are all depicted as real falls.
I think it quite likely that " book four " in Mrs. King's script
is meant for Book IV. of Paradise Reyained.
I also think Dr. Gough's suggestion about " Epithalamium
"
not at aU unlikely ; and I had thought of saying something
on much the same lines. But I deliberately refrained from
doing so, because experience has taught me that it is
unwise to press interpretation beyond a certain point, critics being
only too ready to pounce upon interpretations put forward tenta-
tively, and to pull them to pieces as though they had been ad-
vanced in a positive manner and as essential to the case.
As regards the possibility of " cornerstone " being used with
reference, not to the foundation, but to the completion of a
building, I may say that before commenting on the " corner-
stone " references in Mrs. King's and Mrs. Salter's scripts, I looked
up the Biblical passages where the word occurs, and, though
aware that some commentators give it the meaning that Dr.
Gough suggests it should bear in the scripts, decided to stick to
the usual sense of the word. I did so partly because it is the
usual sense, and partly because in one of Mrs. King's scripts
(not quoted in my paper )" cornerstones " is very clearly used in
its usual sense, as follows
:
" We must lay the foundations very sure—-no high reaching
January, 1928 Correspondence 177
temples yet, but long and patient setting of the cornerstones—the
fabric must stand secure."
With " setting of the cornerstones " here compare " The corner-
stone of the building is set" in King, 737 (the script quoted in
my paper).
I take this opportunity to touch on another point connected
with the " Master Builder " cross-correspondence.
In my comments on " Verify reference to Oedipus in 0\dd
"
in one of Mrs. King's scripts, I said that the only personal
reference to Oedipus in Ovid that I could trace was one in Met.
VII., 759-761, where an allusion is made to his guessing of the
Sphinx's riddle and to the consequent fall of the Sphinx. I
was very careful to abstain from claiming that this is the one
and only reference to Oedipus in Ovid, though "prepared to
assert " that " if there are other references, they must be exceed-
ingly rare." I am indebted to Mr. W. W. Grundy, Professor of
Latin in Cardiff University, for drawing my attention to a per-
sonal reference to Oedipus in 11. 259-260 of the Ibis. The lUs is
generally attributed to Ovid, and I should say—though my
opinion on such a point is of little value—is rightly so attributed.
The reference is as follows :
Nec plus aspicias, quam quern sua filia rexit,
Expertus scelus est cuius uterque parens.
The author is raining down curses on some one who has slandered
him, and prays that the slanderer may become as "blind as the
man whom his daughter led [i.e. Oedipus, who when blind was
led about by his daughter Antigone], and whose sin both his
parents [i.e. Laius and Jocasta] experienced to their cost."
J. G. PiDDINGTON.
II. " Case of the Will of James Chafpin."
To the Editor of The Journal of the S.P.R.
15th November^ 1927.
Dear Madam,—The very interesting Will Case which you print
in the new Part of Proceedings adds another to the rare cases in
which information is given, apparently by a dead person, con-
cernmg a fact which was known to the dead person and was
unknown, so far as could be ascertained, to anyone living. I
17S Journal of Society for Psychical Research January, 1928
do not know if you would think it of any interest, for the sake
of new members, to print in the Journal a list of such cases
investigated and recorded by the Society, but in case you should,
I append the references to seven of them, of which I happen to
have made notes. You refer to one of them, in recording the
Will Case, but give only the Hitman Personality reference.
1. The dollar bills case. Proc. Vol. VIII. (Pt. XXII),
p. 200, seq.
2. The half brick case. Proc. Vol. VIII. (Pt. XXII),
p. 248, seq.
3. The receipt for pomatum case. Proc. Vol. XVII. (Pt.
XLIV), pp. 181-2.
4. The dark note-book case. Proc. Vol. XXXI. (Pt. LXXXI),
j3. 253, seq.
5. The buried medal case. Proc. Vol. XXXV. (Pt. XCIV),
p. 511, seq.
6. The counterfoil case. Proc. Vol. XXXVI, (Pt. 99), pp. 303-5,
7. The second Will case. Proc. Vol. XXXVI. (Pt. 103),
p. 517, seq.
In every instance, except 3 and 5, one can see a strong reason
why the purporting communicator might have wished to com-
municate the fact.
Yours faithfully,
Hubert Wales.
REVIEWS.
I. John Livingston Lowes, The Road to Xanadu : a Study in the Ways^
of the Imagination. 8vo, pp. xviii. 639, 16 ill. London [1927],
Price 31s. 6d. net.
It is one of the most urgent duties of psychical research to
ascertain to what extent, if any, the subconsciousness possesses
means of acquiring knowledge otherwise than by absorption, as
it were, from the consciousness. For instance, how far, if at all,
can we attribute the remarkable philological knowledge implied
in the compositions of " Patience Worth to the operations
January, 1928 Reviews 179
of Mrs. Ciirran's subconsciousness, as distinct from her con-
sciousness ?
^
A definitive answer to this question is, I think, to be found in
the book under j^reseut review. For Coleridge's Kuhla Khan is
perhaps more frequently cited than any other human perform-
ance as an example of the creative powers of the subconscious-
ness. ^ Now, Dr. Lowes shows conclusively that every one of
those elements in Kuhla Khan which are so often described as
" typical of the subconsciousness," is, in fact, traceable to Cole-
ridge's previous reading. Dr. Lowes has written a long book,
but it is not a word too long for his task : his object and, it is
impossible to doubt, his achievement, cannot be summarised in
any detail. The merest outline of his method (he applies it to
The Ancient Manner as well) must of necessity suffice.
As is well known, Coleridge's own account of the composition of
Kuhla Khan is that he fell asleep while reading the following
words in Purchases Pilgrimage :
" Here the Khan Kubla commanded
a palace to be built, and a stately garden thereunto. And thus
ten miles of fertile grounds were inclosed with a Avail." He
slept for three hours, woke with the conviction that he had in
his sleep composed two to three hundred lines, set pen to paper,
and had written the fragment of fifty odd lines known to us'
when he was interrupted by the now legendary " person on
business from Porlock." Now, the quoted passage from the
Pilgrimage (even in its correct form) accounts for only the barest
bones of the poem. But Dr. Lowes has made an exhaustive
study of the books known to have been read by Coleridge. And
reasoning from these, he shows how the words in the Pilgrimage
called up in Coleridge's mind (unconsciously, of course) a similar
passage in Purchas's Pilgrimes. This new passage is found to
supply the origins of further elements in the poem, and in turn
leads to a third passage, which is equally useful. Then, con-
temporary entries in Coleridge's note-book opens up (at any rate,
to Dr. Lowes's omniscience) further vistas of the same kind. The
conclusion of it all -has already been stated : almost every unusual
or dream-like " idea or expression in the poem is shown to be
derived from some passage or other proved (in most cases, ren-
dered probable in the others), to have been read bv Coleridge.
iCp. Dr. Schiller's review of Dr. Prince's The Case of Patience Worth in
Proc. S.P.R. (November 1927), xxxvi. 575.
180 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January, 1928
It must not be supposed, however, that Dr. Lowes imagines
himself to have " explained " the strange beauty of Kuhla Khan.
Far from this, his strongest feeling on completing his infinitely
laborious task, is one of wonder at the nature of the genius that
selected a score of casual sentences and transmuted them into a
single expression of almost unalloyed beauty. But it must be
granted that Dr. Lowes has destroyed the claims of the sub-
consciousness to the possession of acquisitive powers distinct from
those of the consciousness, and that he has pushed the problem
of genius one step further back into mystery. He is to be con-
gratulated on having carried out a most difficult and delicate
undertaking with the surest taste and with an unfaltering apprecia-
tion of true values.
Theodore Besterman.
IL Hoiv to go to a Medium. By E. J. Dingwall, M.A., with a
foreword by Maurice B. Wright, M.D., London, 1927. Kegan
Paul, Trench, Trubner & Co. Pp. 98, 3s. 6d.
In his foreword Dr. Wright says " This short book should be
widely read by all who are interested in the subjects of Psychical
Kesearch and . . . who are thinking of taking up the study of
mediumistic phenomena." I agree, but, whether after its perusal
an appreciable percentage of those " who are interested " will
continue to " think of taking up the study " seems to me ex-
tremely doubtful. In a useful little Introduction, Mr. Dingwall
sets out in simple language the elements of the phenomena of
automatism by way of habituating beginners to the idea that
because, say, a planchette writes without the conscious guidance
of the operator, it does not follow that the performance is super-
natural or even supernormal. He then goes on to discuss the
frame of mind in which a medium should be approached and
gives very sound advice upon the method of recording the results.
In the body of the book he reviews the various forms of mental
and physical phenomena, and provides as it were, a Manual of
Deportment for the young (or green) Researcher. Thus, if a
clairvoyant medium should say "I see a gentleman standing by
you and hear the name John, I think it is your father," " do
not," says Mr. Dingwall, " as many sitters do, say '
No, it is my
grandfather,' . . . but something like this, '
Yes, go on, I should
like to hear some more about the gentleman,' " a polite formula
Januaet, 1928 Reviews 181
which must evidently be as gratifying to " John " as to the
medium.
Mr. Dingwall's experience has evidently led him to make a
very broad distinction between mental and physical mediums.
Of the former he writes "It is a mistake, in England at any
rate, to suppose that all mental mediums attempt to gain know-
ledge surreptitiously about their clients. It is well-known that
certain of the best mediums discourage gossip even on the part
of their own sitters as calculated to spoil their results. Whatever
may be the source of the correct information which is given
through them, it is certainly not, in many cases, derived from
enquiries made by the mediums or on their behalf." When,
however, he turns to physical mediums, the tale is very different.
He describes the various forms taken by their phenomena, giving
excellent advice about how they should be investigated and what
conclusions may safely be drawn from them. And interspersed
one finds this dismal litany. Of raps at sittings for table-turn-
ing : "I have never heard what I consider to be a genuine
rap at a sitting of this kind." Of lights : "I have never yet
seen what I consider to be genuine lights." Of telekinetic
movements of objects : "At the present moment I am unable to
indicate a single medium with whom these occurrences can be
observed under satisfactory conditions." Of materialization
:
" The manifestations [at public circles when phenomena are
exhibited on certain evenings at so much per head] are almost
certain to be fraudulent." Of slate writing :
" I have no good
scientific evidence that any slate-writing has ever been genuine."
If, nevertheless, our young (or green) Eesearcher, undeterred by
the prospect of the waste of time and money involved by a
search for what a person of Mr. Dingwall's experience has never
yet found, decides to pursue his quest, he cannot do better than
to accept his guidance. " If you are in any serious difficulty,"
he writes, " and do not know where to obtain the information you
require, the writer will do his best to reply, if a stamped envelope
is enclosed." But after all, as Mr. Dingwall says, "A fraudulent
medium is almost as interesting sometimes as a genuine one,
especially if the investigator is acquainted with the principles of
deception," so that even if one fails to find " phenomena," one can
at least count on finding very considerable entertainment.
E. F.
182 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January, 1928
III. Mind and Personality. By William Brown, M.D., D.Sc.
Pp. 344 +x. University of London Press. Price 12s. 6d.
The author's aim in this book has been to examine the nature
of human personality from various points of view, of which the
most important is that of psycho-analysis, or, as the author prefers
to call it, deej) analysis. He brings forward much interesting
material, both experimental and theoretical, and gives a valuable
summary of the results so far reached by psycho-analysis, to-
gether with the divergent lines of theory associated with the names
of Freud, Adler and Jung respectively. To the readers of this
journal the most interesting chapter is probably the last, entitled
" Personality and Survival of Bodily Death." The author considers
that " as regards the possibility of survival the evidence of
Psychical Research is of scientific importance," but that " our
belief in survival is but little influenced by the findings of Psychi-
cal Research."
" Alternative hypotheses are possible," but he gives no indica-
tion as to what these hypotheses are. Most impartial students of the
evidence would agree that the only possible alternatives to survival
lie in supposing the existence of vast and unproved faculties of
telepathy or clairvoyance in successful mediums. Yet the author,
so far as I can discover, does not mention the word telepathy
throughout the whole book, a rather startling omission in a work
which aims at dealing exhaustively with the faculties of the mind.
He goes on to say that " the arguments in favour of survival
which are really impressive are on a different footing." They are,
of course, independent of any evidence, and appear to be summed
ujj in the statement that " we are likely to survive so far as we
can continue a realisation of values which we are in process of
realising here." The arguments in support of this statement seem to
rest on the assumption that a supposition is true if its truth would
cause the universe to appear to us pleasanter or more orderly.
The same supposition leads the author to the opinion that we
can never hope to get scientific proof of survival because it may
be better for us not to get it. If he is correct, it would seem a
waste of time to seek it, but his meagre estimate of the present
evidence perhaps fails to allow for the short time that critical
research has gone on and the very small number of those engaged
in it. V. J. W.
January, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 183
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research. Oct.,
1927. Mr. Harry Price concludes in this Number his discussion of
Joanna Southcott's box by a report on " contemporary newspaper
history " dealing especially with the accounts given of her death
and of the dissection of her body, which by her own instructions
took place four days after she died.
There is a short account by Mr. Alfred Eltinge of an experience
he had with a friend called Mr. X. According to Mr. Eltinge's
report two distinct phenomena were observed : (1) cool breezes
emanating from Mr. X.'s fingers ; (2)
" exuding from each finger
of the sensitive a stream of what resembled whitish-gray dense
smoke." The room was lit at the time by a single candle. When
the candle was blown out, " nothing was visible' in the dark."
Mr. Eltinge states that " plans are being made for a systematic
development of these phenomena." It is to be hoped that these
plans include (a) the photographing of Mr. X.'s hands at a time
when the smoke is seen streaming from them, and (b) the register-
ing of the cold breezes by means of a thermometer.
M. Eene Sudre contributes an article on " the Psychic Faculty
in the Pythia and the Ancient Sibyl."
Mr. Theron F. Pierce of New York gives a report of a sitting
which he and his wife had on July 22, 1927, with the medium
Mrs. Naomi Anderson, at which there was apparently an attempt
at communication from a friend who had in fact died some hours
before the sitting, although the sitters had not heard of her death.
Mr. Creorge H. Breaker contributes the first instalment of a
report on some sittings held in 1924 with Mrs. Mary McKenzie, a
professional medium, in Texas. Communications were received
which purported to come from various deceased members of Mr.
Breaker's family ; comment is best deferred till the report is
complete.
H. DE G. S.
184 Journal oj Society for Psychical Research January, 1928
CARD GUESSING EXPERIMENT.
An Appeal for Help.
Thanks are due to all those members who most kindly took part
in the card guessing experiment for which an appeal was made in
the S.P.R. Journal for June 1926 (No. 426, Vol. 23).
As the experiment continues to yield interesting and suggestive
results, this further appeal is made to members who have not yet
tried the experiment to ask if they would help both by doing the
experiment themselves and by persuading friends to try also.
The exj^eriment is a simple one, and the directions are as
follows :
—
1. Take a pack of 52 playing cards.
2. Draw one card face downwards from the pack and try
and guess what the card is.
3. Record your guess under " guess card " on the scoring
sheet provided. The space under " score " is for official use
only.
4. Turn up the playing card and write down under " actual
card " what the card actually is.
5. Return the card to the pack. (The scoring calculations
are based on a full 62 card pack.)
6. Then take out another card, record it as before, etc., and
do this five times in succession at one sitting. Before guessing
another set of five leave an interval of at least some hours,
preferably a day, before guessing again.
7. Do not let another person see the card you have takea
from the pack. The possibility of telepathy must be excluded.
8. If possible please do 25 guesses (five sets of five).
All records, however unsuccessful, are useful, and all degrees
of success are allowed for in the scoring.
A scoring sheet for recording guesses and a stamped addressed
envelope will be sent on application to Miss Jephson, S.P.R,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
A considerable number of data have already been collected, but
more are essential before any definite conclusions can safely be
drawn.
No. 442.—Vol. XXIV. '
February, 1928
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NEW MEMBERS.
Albemarle, Countess of, Quidenhara, Norwich.
Baker, Mrs. Harold, 124 Sloane Street, London, S.W. 1.
Ball, Mrs. Sidney, Pickett's Heath, Boars Hill, Oxford.
Innes, Lady Rose, Midwood, Newlands, nr. Capetown, S. Africa.
Meres, W. F., Duncan House, Torquay.
Parsons, Miss P. C, 95 Nether Street, North Finchle}', London, N. 12.
Plant, Mrs., Dilhorne Vicaiage, Stoke-on-Trent.
ELECTION OF THE PRESIDENT.
The Council have unanimously elected as President of the
Society for 1928, in succession to Professor Dr. Hans Driesch,
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. Sir Lawrence Jones, who has
frequently presided at meetings of the Society and is well
known to many of our members, has been a member of the
Society since 1888, and a Member of its Council since 1904.
During all these years he has taken a keen interest in the
Society's work and has furthered its interests in many ways.
Sir Lawrence Jones will deliver his Presidential Address at a
Private Meeting of the Society to he held in the Council
Chamber at Denison House, 296 Vauxhall Bridge Road, West-
minster, London, S.W. 1, on Wednesday, March 14th, 1928, at
5.30 p.m. A further announcement will appear in the Journal
for March.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 243rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Friday, January 20th, 1928, at
A
186 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February, 1928
3.30 p.m., Sir Oliver Lobge in tlie chair. There were also
present : Mr. E. N. Bennett, Mr. W. E. Bousfield, Professor
E. E. Dodds, The Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. G. W. Lambert,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr. J. G.
Piddington, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mr. Sydney
C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ;
also,
Mr. Theodore Besterman, Hon. Librarian, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read,
and signed as correct.
Seven new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The Annual Eeport was considered, and approved as
amended.
PEIVATE MEETING.
The 93rd Private Meeting of the Society was held in the
Council Chamber at Denison House, 296 Vauxhall Bridge Eoad,
London, S.W., on Friday, December 9th, 1927, at 8.30 p.m.,
Mr. W. E. Bousfield, K.C, in the chair. A paper on " Some
Critical Aspects of the Margfry Mediumship " was read by
Dr. L. E. G. Crandon.
{Editorial Note.—The following extract from Dr. Crandon's
paper gives a brief history of the " Margery Mediumship as
set out by Dr. Crandon himself. We do not propose to
comment on the paper, or to allow any space in the Journal
for discussion of it.)
The Margery mediumship dates from .Time, 1923. At that
time, all of us were entirely ignorant even of the history of the
subject. About that time, some of us read Crawford's books,
and shortly after, as an experiment, and with hardly any serious
purpose, we had a table built like Crawford's. Six of us sat in
red light ; the table began to tilt and have raps almost at once,
and by elimination we quickly discovered who was to blame, and
thus Margery became a medium.
The personnel of the Margery group includes a physician and his
February, 1928 Private Meeting 187
wife, a lawyer (member of the Committee on Ethics of the Suffolk
Bar), a mechanic engineer, and a surgeon.
The " Inside " group sit with fair regularity two or three times
a week. In addition to this, about every two weeks we have in
fifteen to twenty people from the waiting-list. If the visitors
come as a group of investigators and not merely as observers,
we have certain requirements which must be fulfilled. An investi-
gating group must agree in advance to make concurrent notes of
the sittings, by stenography or dictaphone, and must sign the
typed notes then and there. They must declare in writing that
the notes contain all the facts observed and the conditions thereof,
regardless of cause. Anything alleged to have been detected in
the way of normal production of phenomena must be in the
notes, or shall be deemed non-existent.
The phenomena of this medium occur at home or abroad, and
in strange houses. The medium's husband has been intentionally
or unexpectedly absent scores of times, and for official sittings he
is never in control of the medium. Margery has sat in a closed
searched room several times with one observer, if well known to
be honest.
The controlling intelligence of this mediumship declares himself
to be Walter, the medium's brother, who passed from this life
about fifteen years ago. For present purposes, however, when the
word " Walter " is applied to the controlling intelligence, let it
be understood that the name is used for brevity and explicitness,
and does not necessarily imply commitment to the disincarnate
nature of the control.
Although this mediumship is typical of the best in history, it
is nevertheless unique in several respects. Some of these aspects
are the rigidity of the control methods, the great variety of the
phenomena, the ingenious and willing co-operation of Walter, and
the tolerance to photography by flashlight.
Rigidity of Control. The medium is willing to submit to any
control, mechanical, or electrical, or luminous, provided it does not
actually cause pain. Manual control depends on the honesty of
the sitters next the medium, and can have little scientific value
in the dark. The acme of rigidity has been reached, we believe,
in our plate-glass cabinet devised by Dr. Richardson. It is made
up of six plate-glass doors, its dimensions being 3 feet wide,
7 feet high, and 6 feet deep. The psychic's ankles are fastened
188 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February, 1928
to eye-bolts in the floor by picture-wire, her hands are thrust out
through side-ports and fastened with wire to eye-bolts. The
hands cannot be drawn into the cabinet when thus fastened.
The head is prevented from forward motion by a leather collar
padlocked on the neck and drawn back horizontally by a stout
cord to an eye-bolt in the back of the cabinet. This method of
control in nowise interferes with the phenomena.
Kinds of Phenomena. There are many categories, with varieties
under each.
{a) Cool Breezes. Cool breezes come out of the cabinet with
great intensity, esjjecially if the phenomena arc about to be extra
good. A self-registering maximum and minimum thermometer
placed in the cabinet has repeatedly shown a dro]i of 28 degrees :
the room being 70 degrees, the thermometer shows a minimum
of 42 degrees.
(6) Lift/in;/ (f Ohjccts, or Teleh'.nesis, is shown in many variations,
from lifting of a luminous paper ring, up to levitation of the
table with a 175 lb. man on it. A bell in a box, which can only
be made to ring by ])ressing down on a wooden flap on top, is
rung intermittently in good red light as one of the sitters walks
about the room with the box in his hands. A ])air of scales
made wholly of brass and wood, and of extreme delicacy, is made
to balance in good red light with a " four to one " load.
(c) We have had trance-writing in one week in nine languages.
(rf) We have bad aiitoinatic writing, Itut it is not one of our
major interests.
(e) We have repeatedly had music on instruments which are not
present. There is no radio in the house.
if) We have -psychic lights of all grades of intensity up to a
sheet two feet wide and seven feet tall. This Walter calls his
" shining garment," to be used later, he says, for complete
materialization.
(g) Materializations have been very impressive. We believe that
the teleplasm can be produced in many degrees of density. We
recognize, first, a type which cannot be seen or felt, but can be
photographed with a quartz lens ;
second, a kind of somewhat
greater density which takes on form that can be felt, but in the
dark only ; and third, a dense form of teleplasm which can be
seen in good red light, or even in white flashlight, can be felt
and examined and have its temperature taken. This material is
Tebkuabt, 192S Private Meeting 189
like soft rubber ; its temperature is about 40 degrees Fahrenheit.
It is connected with the body of the medium, because even a
gentle secret squeezing of it by one of the sitters will cause the
psychic to groan, thus showing that it is connected with her
central nervous system. Hands are formed, sometimes crude,
sometimes almost perfect. They may or may not be covered
with skin ;
they contain bones, though some bones may be
missing ;
they have finger-nails. Such a hand will move about
in a sluggish way and do things in good red light.
{h) The Independent Voice. When the mediumship was four
months old, we first heard faint whispers from the cabinet. This
voice rapidly developed, till now it is a loud hoarse masculine voice.
We thought that the voice, as a matter of common sense
and experience, must come from the psychic, so we did what
any one would do to test it. We put a hand over the psychic's
mouth, and still got the voice. We filled her mouth with water :
the voice went on, and the psychic later ejected the same coloured
water. Not content with this. Dr. Richardson devised what he
calls a " voice cut-out machine." This consists of two luminous
floats in a three feet U-tube, half full of water. Through a
special glass mouthpiece and a metal gaspipe, the psychic blows
down one half of the U-tube. To maintain the floats at a dif-
ference in levels, the psychic's lips, teeth, tongue and cheeks are
wholly occupied. The slightest opening of the lips would let the
floats go down to one level. Under these conditions, Walter
goes on talking or whistling merrily. It appears that we thus
prove, mechanically, that the voice of Walter is independent, not
of the presence of the medium, but of the normal use of her
anatomy and physiology. Conversation has been carried on with
Walter on the fourth floor front in the house, when Margery was
31 feet away, on the third floor back. We have been able to
record the whistling on the dictaphone, and other voices than
Walter's apparently come through. Before a sitting with strangers
we ask each visitor to blow up the voice machine and then try
to talk or whistle. No one has yet been able to do so.
(i) The Baryta-waler Test. The psychic is lashed in the glass
cabinet. On the table before her, but two feet away, is placed
a bottle half full of barium hydrate water. If one blows through
this solution a white cloud (precipitate) of barium carbonate is
thrown down, due to the action of the carbonic acid gas (COj)
a2
190 Journal of Society for Psychical Research febkuakt, 192&
in the expired air. The psychic's mouth is now fully occupied
by the voice machine. Walter talks, and at the same time
bubbles may be heard going through the barium water bottle,
and a luminous glass pellet is heard and seen to dance up and
down in the bottle. At the end of the experiment, white barium
carbonate makes the water milky. Thus it would appear that
we have three expiratory phenomena in the cabinet at the same
moment : the psychic's mouth, Walter's voice, and the bubbles
of breathed air through the water. So we thought and declared ;
but Walter laughed and said, " Set up the apparatus again,"'
and we did so. We then repeated the experiment ; the three
simultaneous expiratory phenomena again occurred, but we found
no trace of barium carbonate in the water. What was blown
through the water at this experiment we do not know, but it
was not the air of the room, for that will cause a slight pre-
cipitation, nor was it human breath. What was blown through
must have been some other gas.
ij) Apports and Dep)orts. We have had about twenty apports
and one apparent deport. We speak very little of these pheno-
mena because they are admittedly the most difficult to believe.
They are also most difl&cult to control as to conditions of search
before and after.
[li) Photograpilis. We have always three cameras set up, ready
to take photographs from three directions, if we are told to do
so by Walter. Two of the cameras are fitted with a fused quartz,
lens, and the third is stereoscopic, with two glass lenses. We
use hypersensitive films. The flashlight powder is so sprinkled
over five electric sparking-points that the whole flash goes off at
once. The developing fluid has been so modified that it will
bring out a picture, more or less latent, even on an under-exposed
plate. All these details cut down the exposure of the medium
and the psychic structures to a minimum of white light. They
are all taken in the midst of good red light. The photographs
taken then can be divided into four classes. (1) Those which are-
not seen by the eye, but are recorded by both glass and quartz,
lens. (2) Those not seen by the eye, not recorded by the glass
lens, but recorded by the quartz lens. (3) Those seen by the eye
and recorded by both lenses. (4) Those not seen by the eye or
recorded by either camera, but yet manifest by mechanical means
as being present.
FEBEtJART, 1928 Private Meeting 191
Q.) Parajfin Gloves. We have had a large number of paraffin
gloves, each with a narrow wrist. Each is obviously of a mar-
culine right hand, and is never that of Margery's husband, wl o
has a deformed right index finger-nail. These gloves are produced
under conditions which apparently render it impossible for them
to be normally produced. A normal method of doing it has
been perfected by someone in Belgium, and also by another
person recently discovered by Dr. Osty, in the south of France.
The same normal way has apparently been worked out also by
Dr. Jamieson in Nelson, New Zealand. This normal methcd
consists, in brief, of the application of a tourniquet to the upper
arm till the hand becomes much swollen ; the hand is then
dipped in paraffin and then into the cold water. Next, the con-
stricting band is removed on the upper arm, the swelling subsides,
and the experimenter is alleged to be able then to extract his
hand from the glove. Dr. Geley, in his posthumous book, ex-
presses the opinion that this cannot be done with the condi-
tions imder which he studied Klusky. We have a similar opinion
concerning the gloves produced in the presence of Margery.
(m) Finger-prints. From August, 1926, up to September 1,
1927, we have had sixty-eight impressions of a thumb in dental
wax (called " Kerr "). This wax softens in hot water, the impres-
sions are then produced, and the wax hardens and becomes a
permanent record.
(1) The prints appear on marked identifiable pieces of wax, in
the presence of strangers only, in strange houses, with Margery
lashed, hands, feet and head.
(2) All the thumb-prints obtained (with five exceptions) are the
same thumb-print, and are never that of a sitter.
(3) Some of them are negatives, both concave and convex.
(4) Some of them are positives, both concave and convex.
(5) Some of them are mirror-prints of others. That is to say,
they correspond to the others, but are reversed, and ridges
correspond, ridge for ridge. The observations as to identity and
mirror reversals are confirmed by C4overnmental or Police Officials
in Washington, Boston, Berlin, Munich, Vienna, and Scotland Yard,
all in writing.
(6) It is not apparent how the mirror-prints on a mass of wax
can be produced in a world of three dimensions.
192 Jovrnal of Society for Psychical Research February, 1928
(7) Tlie thumb-prints of Walter in characteristics resemble those
of Margery forty-five per cent.
(8) The thumb-prints of Walter resemble those of the mother
of Margery and Walter seventy per cent., in characteristics.
(9) These relationships are precisely what they should be in the
case of brother and sister, and of son and mother.
(10) A paraffin psychic glove made May 17, 1924, shows the
same thumb-print.
(11) In 1912, Walter left his mother's house on what proved
to be a fatal train trip, and shaved himself before leaving. The
razor was put away by his mother in her trunk. There was no
other man in the family, and the container was never ojDened till
May, 1927. Walter's mother then handed the razor-case to the
finger-print expert. He opened it with difficulty, extracted the
razor with forceps, and developed on the handle the distal third
of a latent thumb-print, which he declares to be consistent, in
every line present, with the Walter print.
If all the statements above are true, we have here an intrinsi-
cally supernormal experiment, from which it appears one must
conclude that there is produced, or reproduced, in the presence
of Margery, a thumb-print which can belong to no one else but
Walter Stinson, fifteen years deceased. No accusation of jugglery
in photography can be made, because we have in our possession
the three-dimensional mass of dental wax corresponding to each
photograph.
The finger-j^rint experts find themselves in a corner. They
declare the prints to be made by primary contact with human
skin ; in other words, that the prints are not forgeries. Yet the
prints are made with the psychic in a closed cabinet, and no one
present in the closed searched room but the finger-print expert.
It would seem as if the prints under those conditions must be
]nade by a materialized individual thumb, or must be a forgery.
If a forgery, it is so successful that the experts are deceived
;
criminals could make similar forgeries, and the science of finger-
print identification must fall.
There is a story which illuminates this subject. It is from a
novel called The Red Thumb Mark, by Freeman. In brief, a
print of the defendant's thumb is found at the site of the crime.
In court, it is identified as his by the experts. The defendant's
lawyer asks to have the experts excluded for a time, and then
Febuuakt, 1928 Private Meeting 193
begs the judge to allow a simple experiment. The lawyer then
produces a sheet of paper with twenty squares on it, and says,
" I have here a rubber stamp of the defendant's thumb made by
a j)hoto-engraving process ; with it I fill any ten of these squares,
here and there, with an imprint. I now have the defendant put
his thumb on an ink pad and fill the remaining ten squares with
an actual print of his thumb." The experts were then called
back to pick out the ten real thumb-prints. They not only
picked out the wrong ones, but were 100 per cent, wrong. They
made this error because they found the prints made by the rubber
stamp to be identical in every respect with each other, whereas
no two of the actual thumb-prints were microscopically identical.
And that is true, if you make a number of prints of your own
thumb : no two will be just alike. They will be obviously from
the same thumb but will have minute differences because of the
differences of temperature, the amount of rolling, the amount of
pressure, the amount of ink, etc. Confirming this, we find in the
sixty-nine prints of Walter's thumb that no two are absolutely
alike.
Furthermore, we have enlarged the thumb-prints, even up to
one hundred times, and we find that this brings out more truly
anatomic details ; whereas if the prints were artificially made, the
texture, unevenness, and the defects of material used would
appear much magnified in an enlargement.
Lately we have obtained excellent photographs of Walter's hand
making the prints, in good red light.
CASE.
«
L. 1283. VeridiCxA.l Information given by a Communicator
UNKNOWN TO THE SiTTER.
We have received from the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas the
following record of a case in which at one of his sittings with
Mrs. Leonard veridical messages were apparently received from
a communicator with whom Mr. Thomas had no personal
acquaintance, giving facts quite unknown to him at the time
of the sitting.
The date of the sitting was October 28th, 1927, and on the
104 Journal of Society for Psychical ResearcJt Fkbruary, 1928
evening of that day Mr. Thomas sent to the Editor, Mrs.
Salter, the relevant extracts from his contemporary notes with
the following request
:
You should receive this ou Saturday, Oct. 29, 1927. Will you
kindly note time and date of reception ? It may possibly prove
of interest.
These notes, with Mrs. Salter's endorsement that they were
duly received by her at 4 p.m. on October 29th, 1927, are
in the Society's possession, and the names and addresses of
the persons coicerned are known to the Society, although they
are not given here.
The circumstances in which the incident occurred were as
follows: On September 21, 1927, a lady, here called Mrs. Peter,
the wife of a vicar in a country parish and a complete stranger
to Mr. Thomas, wrote to him asking whether he was still
living at the address she had found given in Lady Grey's
book The Earthen Vessel, as she would like to write to him
" concerning a terrible trouble which has recently befallen us
in the death of our only and darling son." Mr. Thomas
acknowledged this letter, but informed Mrs. Peter that he was
abroad at the time. On his return, Mrs. Peter wrote to him
again on October 26, 1927, a letter, from which the following
extract may be quoted :
I believe I told you, did I not, that we have lost our only
and darling son, the 3rd of July last. He had left me to return
to Oxford two hours before he was killed, full of life and the joy
of living, and was run into by a young woman motorist who
came twenty-five to thirty miles an hour out of a side road.
[Details of the accident are then given.] He was so terribly
injured he died in fifteen minutes. . . . We have a dear daughter
of seventeen. ... If we could get any communication from him
it would be an unspeakable comfort. ... I am wondering if any
one at their sitting could get a message from Ralph any time
for me. ... I venture to enclose these few letters out of over
three hundred and forty . . .
A. [Peter.]
AVith this letter were enclosed copies of fourteen letters of con-
dolence received by Mr. or Mrs. Peter, testifying to the fine
February, 1928 Case 195
and lovable character of their son. None of these letters
-contain any information relevant to the case which is not
•contaiiied in Mrs. Peter s letter of October 26, 1927, as quoted
•above.
On receiving this letter from Mrs. Peter on October 27, 1927,
Mr. Thomas decided that he would make an attempt to get
into touch with her son at the sitting which he expected to
iave with Mrs. Leonard on the following day. The procedure
adopted by Mr. Thomas and the manner in which the supposed
communication from young Mr. Peter was introduced are
described in a letter written by Mr. Thomas to Mrs. Salter,
in reply to an enquiry from her, as follows :
December 10, 1927.
Eeplying to your inquiry I quote below the notes of my sitting
in which Feda introduced young Mr. [Peter]. Perhaps you would
like to know how I account for his coming in the way he did.
After replying to Mrs. [Peterjs appealing letter I began to think
that perhaps I ought to make an attempt to obtain what she so
desired. Accordingly I acted upon advice given me some years
back by my father at a Leonard sitting. He had said that in case
•of my wishing to attract his attention to any special matter I
could do so by writing a message in brief, clear form and then
reading it aloud once or more each night and morning for two
or three days. He said that he would then certainly become
aware of it, either by being present while it was thus strongly
in my thought, or by noticing that thought when next he visited
me.
I had used this method with success. On one special occasion
I had also in similar manner invited a missing soldier to come to
my study, and to ask those whom he noticed present in my
room to tell him how to send messages through them to his
parents. That proved successful ; it is a lengthy story with
which I need not trouble you.
In the present instance I did exactly the same. I invited young
Mr. [Peter] to come to me and to ask my father and sister, who
would doubtless be also present, to tell him how to prepare some
evidential messages for his parents and to take him to my ap-
proaching Leonard sitting.
Having done this it rather passed out of my mind, and I was
196 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February, 1928:
not consciously thinking about it that afternoon when the sitting
began. It was, however, brought suddenly to my mind by a
question asked by Feda, and this question came almost at the
beginning immediately after the opening greetings, and a book
test. I now transcribe my notes as typed the evening of the
sitting. ...
Feda. Have you been asked to help a boy ?
C. D. T. Yes.
Feda. There is one here ; he was in a rush to come.
[Here follows a note by Mr. Thomas, the substance of
which is given in his letter above. The note is
therefore omitted.]
(Feda then said that this boy had not been ill, and his
passing seemed to have been quite sudden. I said
that this was correct and that I hoped she would be
able to give me some further particulars.)
Feda. He says, The letter, the letter, as if that had made you
think of him.
C. D. T. Quite right. His mother sent me a letter about him.
I quote no further, as the tests immediately followed, and you
already have a copy of these. . . .
Later in the sitting, while my father was controlling, I asked
him how he got into touch with the lad who had been speaking
earlier in the sitting. He replied. It was in your study we met
him. We did not know why he was there, but gathered that
later. . . .
C. Drayton Thomas.
On the evening of October 28, 1927, Mr. Thomas wrote a
letter to Mrs. Peter a copy of which, as already mentioned^
was sent to Mrs. Salter and endorsed by her. The letter
was as follows :
October 28, 1927.
When writing to you yesterday I had no thought of following
it up with another to-day. I think that possibly I have been
in touch with your son at my sitting this afternoon, and I hasten
to send you a few items which have an evidential bearing. If
I am to catch the post there will be no time to do more, and
I should like you to have this before Sunday in the very possible
event of your recognising some of the items as correct.
February, 1928
If you find reason for thinking that the following remarks
originated with your son and apply to recognisable facts, perhaps
you will let me know and I will then send the remainder.
I now quote fragments of the sitting :
He tries to say a name beginning B—, not long, nor to
be connected with himself, but with someone on earth. It
sounds like Ber— [1]
He had made an alteration in the time of going and that
caused him to be just at the spot where the accident hap-
pened. [2]
He gives a C for near where he lived. [3]
A little before he passed his people had been talking about
building or erecting something in which they were all inter-
ested. [4]
He says, I am glad that the photograpjhs were taken a
short while before, so that they have some late ones of me,,
as well as the earlier ones. Mother put one in the right-hand
drawer. She may have put more, but put one there and
I think placed it in a sheet of paper ; it looked to me as if
folded in two round the photo. Possibly it was in a clean
envelope. [5]
He says, I have seen HAR—who passed over. [6]
He says. The Present, they will know what I mean. The
present, I was so pleased ; tell them it had no connection
with my passing, it did not cause my passing. I had wanted
it, but do not wish them to think it helped me to pass over.
(I had to read this last paragraph over as he was anxious
that it should be given correctly.) [7]
Wearing a special cap. [8]
Ask if they remember talking about a badge a little while
before. [9]
Pie says four of them at home. (I said I understood there
were only three.) He says four, there is one also whom he
thinks of with aliection. Feda gets from him a feeling of
two parents, one younger, and an older person. [10]
Who is Jefi ? Feda heard him say that name. [11]
C. D. Thomas.
On October 29, 1927, Mrs. Peter wrote to Mr. Thomas in
reply. As her letter is long and contains some matter not
198 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February. 1928
relevant to this case, it will be better to give an abstract,
including some quotations, of the relevant parts :
(1) The name beginning with B, sounding "like Ber," is
identified by Mrs. Peter as referring to a great friend of the
family, Mrs. Bertram (a pseudonym, with the first three letters
unchanged). Mrs. Peter wrote :
She lives only one and a half miles off and is aunt to the girl
he had loved since he was a little boy of eight. He so often
was at her house and met the girl he loved there and was most
interested consequently in everything Mrs. Bertram said or did.
The morning he was killed he met her in her taxi returning from
church, and her driver said, " That was Mr. Peter,'' and she said,
" Oh, L., why did I not stop him and make him come in."
(He was just by their gate.) And I so intensely regretted it,
knowing one word from her would have had him off his bike like
a shot, and so delayed his getting to that awful corner, and the
woman would have gone by. He saw Mrs. Bertram and smiled
at the driver whom he knew well. That is a name that is so
often on our lips . . . there was no name he would so often say
perhaps as Mrs. Bertram.
(2) With regard to the alteration in the time of his going,
3Irs. Peter writes that it had been originally planned that he
should return to Oxford on the Saturday afternoon, but at the
last moment he received an invitation to a tennis party on that
day, and after some doubt and discussion it was decided that
his departure for Oxford should be postponed till the Sunday
morning. It was a matter of regret to Mrs. Peter that she
had been instrumental in arranging this postponement, since,
if the young man had gone on Saturday, as originally planned,
the collision which killed him would not have occurred.
: (3) The nearest town, about two miles from the Vicarage,
ias a name beginning with C.
(4) With regard to the reference to building, BIrs. Peter
writes that there has been much talk about enlarging the
Vicarage. The decision to enlarge it was reached in August,
1928, but the building was postponed on account of a serious
illness of Mr. Peter s. She says :
We are always discussing it and planning where we should put
this or that. We have talked no end about it, and had builders
Febuuauy, 1928 Case 199
etc. here to go into the matter. We meant to do it next Feb-
luary if my husband found he could carry on.
(5) At the time of Mr. Kalph Peter s death the most recent
photographs in his parents' possession, or of which they had
any knowledge, were some taken more than three years before,
when he left school. After his death Mrs. Peter learnt through
a college friend of his of the existence of two group photo-
graphs, taken about eighteen months before, in which her son
figured. These photographs she has since obtained and had
framed. There seems to be some confusion about the state-
ment that the photograph is in a drawer. The statement does
not apply to the college photographs of Mr. Ralph Peter, but
might apply to another photograph which has lately come into
Mrs. Peter's possession.
(6) Mrs. Peter could suggest no one with a name beginning
Har to whom reference might be made except a man in a
neighbouring parish who had died about eighteen months
before. But as this man was only an acquaintance, the point
cannot be considered as having much evidential value.
(7) Concerning the present Mrs. Peter writes :
The present must mean his motor bike. It was a twenty-tirst
birthday present, got by putting together all his birthday cheques
only fourteen months before. I always dreaded him having one,
and he knew I was always very anxious about him . . . though
he was a good and careful rider. The police superintendent at
Lichfield told us . . . that had he been in a car he would never
have been killed.
(8) In her letter to Mr. Drayton Thomas Mrs. Peter stated
that the allusion to a special cap was not imderstood ; her son
I
was not wearing any special cap at the time of the accident.
Subsequently she wrote to Mrs. Salter that she thought refer-
ence might possibly be intended to an incident which occurred
about three weeks before the sitting, and therefore some time
after the communicator's death. But the reference at the
sitting is too vague to be identified with any certainty, and
therefore the details of this incident are not given here.
(9) Mrs. Peter has a vague recollection of a conversation
200 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Febhuakt, 1928-
whicli took place some months before her son's death to whichi
reference may be intended, but the point is not clear.
(10) The family consisted of four persons including Mr.
Ralph Peter himself, the parents and two children. There is a
difference of fifteen years in age between Mr. and Mrs. Peter.
There was also a girl (mentioned above) of whom he thought
with great affection. " She had been his fancy since he was
a wee boy of eight, and in that way he had never looked at
anyone else."
(11) Concerning the allusion to " Jel? " Mrs. Peter writes:
Jeii' is great evidence. Our Rural Dean's son, his only son, is-
named Jeff, never called anything else. Our darhng was at his
home till nine o'clock the night before he was killed. I enclose-
you Mrs. M.'s letter to show you where she speaks of her son
Geoff.
It was to Mrs. M.'s house that he went for the tennis party
referred to above.
A few other statements were made at the sitting, but they
are of too general a character to have much evidential value
and therefore are not quoted here.
Two points in the case are worth noting :
(a) Although Mr. Drayton Thomas went to the sitting with
a definite intention of getting into touch with Mr. Ralph Peter,
if possible, the introduction by Feda of a youzig man wishing
to communicate was spontaneous.
(b) The information given at the sitting related almost
entirely to matters unknown to Mr. Thomas. Such informa-
tion as he had, e.g. of the young man's name, was not draAva
upon.
HUMAN PERSONALITY AND THE PROOF OF SURVIVAL,
By David Gow.
(Editor of Light.)
As one who has followed for many years the question of
human survival and its evidences, may I set down my view
that it can rest on no single criterion. Let me put it in this,
way : A friend, X, leaves England in order to reside in
February, 1928 Human Personality and Proof of Survival 201
Australia and I eventually receive a brief cablegram bearing
his name. That would be for all ordinary purposes proof
that he had arrived. But it would not be final and conclusive.
Later I receive a letter in his handwriting, confirming his
cablegram, and letters also arrive from other friends mentioning
their meeting with X. If, beyond this, I should chance to
meet an Australian visitor to our country who reports having
met X, that would be sufficient to establish for me with
certainty the fact that X was actually resident in Australia.
These are the kind of proofs I have sought for and fre-
quently gained in connection with the quest for proof of the
survival of particular friends who have passed out of mortal
life. But as these people have admittedly travelled beyond
the bourne of time and space, it might be held that the
Australian analogy is inadequate and that the direct evidence
and the corroborative evidence would need to be extensively
reinforced on thj principle that an extraordinary fact (or
alleged fact) needs correspondingly extraordinary proof. That
may be admitted, but only so long as the fact remains extra-
ordinary. The multiplication of facts of the same order tends
to diminish their extraordinary character, and it is fair to
claim that the testimony to such facts has multiplied so
tremendously of late years that the question is no longer in
the same position that it was.
Suppose we invert the order of our procedure. Instead of
taking our facts and applying them to the particular quest on
which we are engaged, we give that quest a subordinate
position—even to the point of leaving it out of accoimt alto-
gether. We take the facts, then, and, instead of marshalling
them as evidence of the preconceived idea, examine them
independently and see where they lead. It seems not im-
possible that they would point to a question with which human
survival may or may not be bound up—I mean the problem
of the nature of human personality.
That is the problem which has been forming gradually and
dimly in my mind during many years of thought and inquiry.
It has been forced on my attention many times and by many
curious experiences. These began, in eSect, some years ago
•when I was in correspondence with a clergyman, scholar and
202 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Februaet, 1928
pLilosoplier, whom I sometimes consulted on academic points.
We established an epistolary friendship, not meeting each other
until long afterwards. It was my friend who first noted that
we were often thinking of the same things at the same time
and, in writing, dealing with the same subjects and using the-
same phrases and images, unknown to each other until our
letters arrived. This happened so frequently as to occasion
not only amazement but even exasperation on the part of the
clergyman who complained week after week that my articles
in Light, were almost duplicates of things he had himself
written for me or was engaged at the time in writing. One
day he designed a little humoroiis article for Light on the
" red-faced man " in Dickens' Shetches by Bo:, and had plotted it
out in his mind. The very next week an article on the same-
theme and on the same lines appeared in Light, very much
to his astonishment. I had been thinking of the same thing
at almost the same time and in the same way. One day
I wrote him a letter in the course of which I likened myself
to the " White Knight who " knew the rules of the game."
But on the same day on which he received my letter I received
a letter from him saying that, like the " White Knight," he
" knew the rules of the game !
" These coincidences went
on until they became almost frightening. We eventually met
each other on his visiting London, and then this strange
"spate of telepathy came to an end.
It was about this time that I became aware of curious-
echoes from my mind reaching me from various quarters.
Thoughts, monologues with myself, private writings were reflected
to me from various quarters—sometimes from seance-rooms at
which I was not present. I began to liken my editorial
office to a sort of whispering gallery. My unspoken thoughts^
couched sometimes in an unusual phraseology, would be picked.
up and returned to me. To one less seasoned in the psychic-
realm the experience would have seemed weird in the extreme..
To have one's personal reflections repeated to friends in the
seance-room by controls and communicators through a medium
was distinctly embarrassing.
One day I had sketched out in my mind the characters of a.
humorous skit on the line of The Three Musheteers, assign-
Febeuart, 1928 Human Personality and Proof of Saruival 203
ing a living person to eacti character : Porthos, Athos and
Aramis—adding D'Artagnan as a fourth. I could not quite
fit Athos, by the way. I kept the matter in my mind, being
accustomed to rely on memory-drafts in these matters. A
few days later a letter reached me from a well-known author
and dramatist who had lately come into the active investiga-
tion of SpirituaHsm. He told me of his idea for a humorous
article. It was to be called " The Three Pamphleteers." It
was based on Dumas' Three Musketeers. He had taken all
four characters, as I had, fitted three of them to the same
persons, but he had " got stuck " over Athos ! When he
knew of the coincidence my friend was astonished. He
assigned it, of course, to telepathy. But to me the return of
my own unspoken and unwritten thoughts in this strange
fashion seemed to have a deeper sign ificance.
To one, two—even sis of these correlations of thought I
coidd have given the name of chance-coincidences. But they
were so multitudinous that such an explanation would have
been farcical.
'These things, in feet, gave me strange hints and gleams
outside and beyond the question either of psychic faculty or
human survival.
They pointed to a vast problem—that problem to which
I have referred : the nature of Human Personality. They
suggested, in some obscure way, the possibility that we are
really concerned not so much wiih questions of personal or
indi\'idual existence here or hereafter, but something cosmic in
its range. It is too deep a question to enter upon here except
in a vague, allusive fashion. Hitherto the conception that
every individual is rmited in the subconscious, that the Many
and the One are identical, that self-consciousness is an illusion^
has been a kind of stock idea of the mystic and the trans-
cendentaKst. Perhaps also one may add the poet, remembering
Dante Gabriel Kossetti's lament over a v/orld in which " Man is
parcelled out in men," and each man's attitude towards his neigh-
bour is: "He is he, I am I." May not the time come when
this idea of human solidarity will emerge from a vague poetical
perception into something with clear outlines—something clearly
visible to the mind, a scientific as well as a philosophic and
204; Journal of Society for Psychical Research Febecaet. 1928
mystical conception ? In that case may we not look for a
kind of " solution in unity " of some of our problems ? When
we cease to divide and subdivide, to demark and to isolate,
we may find that the solution of one great Problem will solve
by the same fact a multitude of smaller enigmas.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie. November, 1927. Dr. P. Siinner
and Professor Hans Driesch print two short accounts of the
Paris Congress. Dr. Joseph Boehm, of Niirnberg, and Dr. Her-
mann Neugarten, of Berlin, have two papers on the Konnersreuth
case [to be the subject of a separate report.]
Herr Albert Sichler, of Bonn, prints the first part of a lengthy
paper on " Magic Tricks and the Imitation of Occult Phenomena "
Herr Sichler is an occultist—using this term in the German
sense—and it is very satisfactory to note that he attaches such
importance to the knowledge of conjuring devices. Hitherto too
many occultists " have looked on conjuring as a subject hardly
worth studying, and it is very desirable that such undeserved
contempt should give place to quite a different attitude. We
wish Herr Sichler were in this respect what the Germans call a
Bahubrecher I
A case of apparent spirit-possession en masse with " speaking
in tongues " is quoted from the review Natur und Kultur, T}Tolia-
Verlag, Munich. The incidents which occurred in December,
1925 are recorded in the diary of the Ukerewe Mission Station,
Africa, and communicated by P. Dr. M. Hallfell, Seminary of
the White Fathers, Trier. There are in the same number many
other " Kleine Mitteilungen " which however hardly deserve notice.
Zeitschrift filr Parajysychologie. December, 1927.
The piece de resistance of this number is an article by Dr. von
Schrenck-Notzing on " Vinton's alleged exposure of the Braunau
mediums." The author asserts that Mr. Vinton's Betrugshypothese
is based on pure assumptions, accuses him of inaccuracies, mis-
statements, etc. ; also of having introduced as his wife Miss Augur
both in Braunau and in Salzburg. Mr. Vinton is characterised
as a " young and immature foreigner, inexperienced in the domain
of parapsychology, in no way a member of the S.P.R." The
Fkbruart, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 205
accomplice theory is discussed in detail, Mr. E. J. Dingwall
being reproached with having applied this theory to the Braunau
seances after returning to London, without speaking of his mis-
givings to the Schneider family on the spot. Dr. von Schrenck-
Notzing thinks that such an attitude was conditioned not so much
by personal conviction as by a concession post factum " to the
habits of the S.P.R.," the latter usually preferring its members
to choose between two hypotheses (?) At the end of the article
we learn that the Braunau sittings are now at an end, " not,
however, on account of the Vinton alleged exposure," but because
Rudi Schneider has now left Braunau to study the technique of
the motor industry in a big town.
Herr Albert Sichler concludes his paper on " conjuring tricks
and the imitation of occult phenomena." He is a thorough
believer in the genuineness of Physical Phenomena and con-
siders that the limits of magic " are substantially narrower than
is generally believed."
Konnersreuth is again discussed in three articles by Dr. Barthel
of Cologne, Prof. Ludwig of Freising and Dr. Gerda Walther of
Frankfort.
In the section entitled, " Kleine Mitteilungen," an extraordinary
case is quoted from the Polish daily paper, Ilustrowany Kiirjer
Codzienny. A certain landowner named Foltanski, of Oswiecim,
Galicia, having come to Bydgoszcz (Bromberg) with his wife and
children, sent the latter to a hunting lodge (jagdhaus) in the
country, himself remaining at Bromberg. In the night of Sep-
tember 26-27, he suddenly heard the telephone ring and then
received the following message from his wife :
" Henry, come at
once and take the children away in order that they should not
cry near my body." It was 1.50 a.m. M. Foltanski telephoned
to the Bromberg central station and was told that no one had
rung him up. The next day he learned that Mme Foltanski had
died from heart seizure that very night at 12.30. Before dying,
as she saw her children crying, she had said several times :
" Ah,
if I could but telephone to my husband !
" There was no tele-
phone in the hunting lodge.
Surely this case is worthy of a thorough investigation by the
Warsaw psychical researchers ! The English S.P.R. have accus-
tomed us to such high standards that in the above form this
account gives us no satisfaction. It is particularly interesting
206 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February, 1928
both on account of the very unusual form of the supposed tele-
pathic impact and because the hallucinatory character of the
experience is here proved very conclusively—which is by no means
always the case.
Zeitschrift fur Psychische Forschung. November, 1927. Prof. Dr.
Christoph Schroder continues the description of Frau Rudlofi's
" Phanomenik," dealing this time with " Sanguiformative Meta-
genetic " drawings on mirrors, window panes, also tables and doors,
etc. These phenomena " appear to have begun in July, 1925 ",
and Prof. Schroder says he has, lying before him, altogether 213
" protocols " (some extremely short ones) drawn up by Fraulein
Rudloff, which he says he has no reason not to accept as having
been written in good faith, in view of his later, to him quite
conclusive, experiments. The " Sanguiformative Metagenetic
phenomena " are illustrated by photographic reproductions which
it must be confessed, look decidedly suspicious. The account in
question is only a beginning.
Dr. Mattiesen brings to a close his series of articles on trance-
phenomena and indefatigably begins a new series as an argument
for the spirit hypothesis.
Die Zeitschrift fiir Psychische Forschung. December, 1927.
Dr. Emil Mattiesen continues his comprehensive survey and dis-
cussion of the difficulties in trance-communication as evidence for
the spirit-hyjjothesis.
M. Macourek of Trebian, Styria, Austria, commences an account
of some recent experiences with the medium Frau Marie Silbert.
The whole tone of the account is one of complete confidence in
her, and the narrative contains so far nothing very striking, with
one possible exception : the phantom of part of a man dressed
in uniform is said to have been seen by another person simul-
taneously with the medium, both being thoroughly frightened.
The sitters were six in number.
Dr. C!hr. Schroder prints many further " protocols " (chiefly very
short) of Frau Rudloff's " sanguiformative and metagenetic
"
drawings on mirrors, etc. (In some cases the " substance " is
said to have been an "albuminous" one.) The "protocols"
embrace the period from August 26 to October 9, 1925 ; some
*
belong to a later period. In many cases Frau and Fraulein
Rudloli are the only eye-witnesses. In very few instances do the
February, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 207
conditions under which the drawings (chiefly of heads), scrawls,
etc., ajjpeared present something like a prima facie case for investi-
gation—that is if we exclude (as we are perfectly entitled to) the
testimony of the mother and daughter.
Revue Metapsychique. November-December, 1927.
Dr. Osty has the beginning of a long paper entitled " On
the borderland of classical Psychology and Metapsychical
Psychology " which deals with calculating and painting pro-
digies. In the part published, the case of a certain Louis
Fleury, born in April, 1893, and blind from birth, is narrated in
detail. At first almost entirely unintelligent, he seems to have
been intellectually transformed, so to say, by a sudden and
violent moral shock at the age of fifteen. " Since then the
abstract world of numbers became his true internal life, his mind
exerting itself without effort and with joy " (p. 395). Dr. Osty
discusses the case with great detail, adducing many instances of
F.'s extraordinary performances. Incidentally however, we are
reminded that as far back as 1912, a certain M. Quinton made
before the Paris Philosophical Society a demonstration showing
that a very simple method exists for extracting roots of various
degrees (cubic, 5th, 7th, 9th, 11th, etc.) in a very short time.
The performances of the ''
prodigies " are by no means explained
in this way, liut this circumstance should not be altogether
lost sight of.
A " well-known " painter, M. Le Loup de Sainville prints an
account of his experiments in " extra-sensorial perceptions " (at
first delivered as a lecture before the Metapsychical Institute in
Ma3^, 1927), which contains valuable facts. M. Le Loup operated
with various subjects as percipients at a distance amounting some-
times to 120 kilometres and obtained many successful results.
I am not sure that the cases quoted as successes do not some-
times imply a little straining of the evidence (cf. the Berlin case
where M. Le Loup was percipient and M. Rene Warcollier agent,
p. 447). But the amount of coincidence obtained in some
instances is certainly beyond what chance can produce. The
writer seems to have obtained particularly satisfactory results when
operating (always at a more or less considerable distance) with a
certain Mile. Marthe G. as percipient. It is significant that the
" administrative situation " occupied by this lady compels M. Le
Loup, he says, not to reveal her name. Altogether the paper is
208 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February, 1928
a valuable contribution to the subject. And such a case as that
described on p. 438, where the writer transmits to a friend,
Dr. d'A., at 120 kilometres, " trois rectangles allonges" shouting at
tlie same time the words, and where the percipient hears the
words and draws the three rectangles at once, sending them im-
mediately by post to the agent that very evening, such a case,
I say, if correctly described (there is no corroborative evidence), is
])erhaps the most striking on record.
Signor Bozzano re^jlies to a criticism by M. Charles Quartier
of his book, Les Enignies de la Psychometrie el les Phhiomenes de
Telesthesie, and M. Charles Quartier retorts by breaking a further
lance with Siguor Bozzano.
A short letter by M. Paul Heuze, whose " enquele " on medium
and Spiritualism in VOpinion a few years ago aroused much
interest, deserves attention. M. Heuze describes the " clairvoyant
"
guessing of cards drawn at random out of a pack by himself,
by an Irishman, Mr. C. P., who sitting at a distance " does not
touch anything." Three cards are drawn each time without being
looked at and the Irishman always guesses one card at least and
almost always two, often all three. These three cards and
another detail quoted l)y iA'l. Heuze and into which I need not
enter here seem to be quite unnecessary comjjlications ; the fact
of the Irishman being an " homme du meilleur monde " is certainly
no guarantee ; but taking into account the personality of M.
Paul Heuze, the case undoubtedly deserves further investigation.
P. P. S.
CORRESPONDENCE.
Concerning Dr. Driesch's "Mind and Body."
To the Editor of The Journal of the S.P.R.
December 29, 1927.
Dear Madam,—I am sorry that Dr. Schiller (Journal, December,
1927, XXIV. 160), is " unable to detect on what principle the
bibliography [in my translation of Prof. Driesch's Mind and
Body] is ordered " : for a more serious accusation cannot be
brought against a bibliography. But I find it difficult to under-
stand how the alphabetical sequence of 110 items in a list of
works can come to be overlooked.
Yours faithfully,
Theodore Besterman.
No. 443.—Vol. XXIV. Maech, 1928.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD I.\
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
DENISON HOUSE,
296 VAUXHALL BRIDGE ROAD, LONDON, S.W. i,
ON
WEDIS^ESDAY, MARCH 14th, igzS, at 5.30 p.m.
Sir LAWRENCE J. JONES, Bart.,
WILL DELIVER HIS
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS,
ENTITLED,
" A Report on Sittings with Miss K. Wingfield
(Miss A.) in 1900-1901,"
(See Pvoc. S.P.R., Vols. VIII., 498-516 ;
IX., 73-92.)
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admissio?i are issi/edfor this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
210 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mauch, 1928
NEW MEMBERS.
Johnson, James MacNeill, Aberdeen, North Carolina, U.S.A.
Watkins, Mrs., Ock House, Abingdon.
White, A. Moresby, 2412 West 7tli Street, Los Angeles, California,
U.S.A.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 244th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Monday, January ,30th, 1928, at
3 p.m., Sir Oliver Lodge in the chair. There were also
present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour,
Mr. E. N. Bennett, Mr. W. R. Bousfield, Mr. G. W. Lambert,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H.
Salter, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J. WooUey ;
also, Mr. Theodore Bester-
man, Hon. Librarian, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The 245th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Monday, January 30th, 1928, im-
mediately after the Annual General Meeting of the Society
;
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the chair. There were also
present: Mr. W. W. Baggally, The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour,
Mr. E. N. Bennett, Mr. W. R. Bousfield, Mr. G. W. Lambert,
Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, Mr. Sydney C. Scott,
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ;
also, Mr.
Theodore Besterman, Hon. Librarian, and Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., was elected President of the
Society for the year 1928.
Mr. W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Treasurer ; Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick and Mr. W. H. Salter were re-elected Hon. Secre-
taries ; Dr. V. J. Woolley was re-elected Hon. Research
Officer; Mrs. W. H. Salter, Hon. Editor; and Mr. Theodore
Besterman, Hon. Librarian ; Messrs. Miall, WUkins, Avery
& Co. were re-elected Auditors for the current year.
March, 1928 Annual General Meeting of Members 211
Corresponding Members and Hon. Associates were elected for
the year 1928, the name of Count Carl Klinckowstroem being
added to the list of Corresponding Members.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS.
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was
held at 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C., on Monday,
January 30th, 1928, at 3.30 p.m.. Sir Oliver Lodge in the
chair. There were also present : The Right Hon. G. W.
Balfour, Mr. E. N. Bennett, Mr. Th. Besterman, Mr. W. R.
Bousfield, Mr. G. Brown, Mrs. E. K. Campbell, Miss Car-
ruthers, Katharine Countess of Cromer, Mrs. J. R. Davis,
Lieut.-Colonel Maxwell Dick, Mr. E. J. Dingwall, Mrs. E. J.
Dingwall, Miss E. Dingwall, Mr. C. B. Fernald, Miss Katharine
Foot, Mrs. Frith, Mr. I. C. Grondahl, Major J. B. Handley-
Seymour, Lieut.-Colonel W. D. Hayward, Miss Hood, Miss
Boucher-James, Miss Jephson, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart.,
Mrs. Kingsley, Mr. G. W. Lambert, Mrs. Leaning, Sir Oliver
Lodge, Miss Isabel Newton, Miss Phillimore, Miss Pollard,
Evelyn Lady Rayleigh, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter,
Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidg-
wick, Lady Sybil Smith, Mr. F. C. Summerson, Mrs. Kingsley
Tarpey, Mrs. Vatcher, Mr. M. West, and Dr. V. J. WooUey.
Sir Lawrence Jones read the Annual Report of the Council
for the year 1927, and the Hon. Treasurer, Mr. W. H. Salter,
presented the Financial Statement.
The Society, he said, had begun the year with a balance
in hand of £425, and had ended the year with a balance of
£555. This he considered extremely satisfactory in view of
the fact that the bulk of the expenses of reorganising the
Library (£460 out of an estimated total of £700) were shown
in the accounts as paid for out of current income, and that
the year had been an exceptionally busy one in the matter
of research, so that the employment of additional staff had
been necessary.
As stated in the Report, the Society had been able to do
this largely owing to the generosity of the Anonymous Donor
mentioned on previous occasions. The Society should not,
212 Jourval of Society for PsycJncal Research March, 1928
however, on that account, through diminution of its own
capital resources, risk any further limitation of its powers of
research. It was for that reason that he was appealing to
Members and Associates to raise by donation a sum of £400
towards the cost of reorganising the Library, as in so far as
the cost was not met out of donations it would fall on the
Society's General Fimds. The total received to date in
response to this appeal was about £140.
Sir Oliver Lodge having invited comments on the Annual
Report and Financial Statement, Mr. Dingwall (1) questioned
the accuracy of the statement that no paper on Psychical
Research had been read to the British Association between
1876 and 1927 ^
; (2) asked how many " physical " mediums had
been investigated by the Hon. Officers during 1927 ;
and (3)
criticised a leaflet issued by the National Book Council, bearing
the Society's name and address, and containing a list of books
on Psychical Research suitable for readers.
The Chairman stated he would enquire into Mr. Dingwall's
first point. Dr. WooUey, replying to the second, said that
the number of " physical " mediums investigated by the Hon.
Officers in 1927 was precisely the same as the number investi-
gated by Mr. Dingwall during his last year as Research Officer,
viz. nil. Dr. Woolley proceeded to explain more fully the
difficulties attending attempts to investigate " physical " mediums
under satisfactory conditions.
Sir Lawrence Jones (as Chairman of the Library Committee)
and the Hon. Librarian (Mr. Besterman) explained the cir-
cumstances as to the trade circular to which Mr. Dingwall
had referred, and Mrs. Leaning also spoke on this subject.
After further discussion of other matters the meeting pro-
ceeded to the election of Members of Council. The voting
was by show of hands and the names were taken in alpha-
betical order. The result of the voting was as follows :
Name of Candidate. Number of Votes.
*Mr. W. W. Baggally - - - - 29
Mr. E. J. Dingwall - - - - 10
Mr. J. C. Fliigel ----- 13
*Dr. T. W. Mitchell - - - - 31
^ See below, p. 221.
March, 1928 Annual Report of the Council for 1927
*Mr. W. H. Salter ----- 28
*Mrs. W. H. Salter ----- 32
*Mr. S. C. Scott ----- 28
*Mrs. Sidgwick ------ 34
(Retiring Members of Council marked *.)
The Chairman accordingly declared the six retiring Members
of Council duly re-elected.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR 1927.
As foreshadowed in our Aimual Report for last year, the
Society was fortunate enough to obtain the consent of
Dr. Driesch to act as its President for a second year.
Dr. Driesch paid a visit to the Society in March, when he
gave to a private meeting an interesting account of his recent
experiences in the United States. He attained his 61st birth-
day during the year, and the Council joined in arrangements
which were being made in Germany for the presentation to
him of his portrait, of which it is hoped that a photograph
will be placed in the Society's Rooms.
As the Society is aware, the annual appointment of a
salaried Research Officer was not renewed last March (see
Journal for May, p. 70). The Council decided as regards
research carried out under the auspices of the Council, or on
the Society's premises, to concentrate all authority in the
hands of the Hon. Research Officer, Dr. V. J. Woolley. This
does not, of course, mean that the Council wish in any way
to discourage independent research by its members—quite the
contrary. Such independent research has always been a most
important soxirce—indeed, probably the most important—of the
knowledge which the Society exists to co-ordinate and develop.
The year 1927 has been one of unusual activity for the
Society in many branches of its work.
We may first of all mention the reorganisation of the
Society's Library. At the last Ammal Meeting questions were
raised as to the adequacy of the Library for the purposes of
serious research, and on the 17th February, 1927, the Council
appointed a special Committee to consider all questions con-
nected with the Library. On the recommendation of this Com-
214 Journal of Society for Psychical Research march, 1928
mittee, Mr. Theodore Besterman was appointed Hon. Librarian
on the 16th March, and the work of reorganising the Library
was promptly set in hand. It was soon ascertained that the
growth of the Society's Library would require additional shelf
space, and the Council were therefore reluctantly compelled
to request Mr. Price to remove the books he some years ago
very kindly lent to the Society under the condition that they
were kept apart from the rest of the Library. The Council wish
once again to express their thanks to Mr. Price for this loan.
New bookcases were ordered both for the Library and for
the back room opening out of it. These cases have a miich
better appearance than the old shelves, and, what is more
important, provide more accommodation for books. Additional
books have been purchased, missing volumes replaced, and old
volumes reboimd ; and a new Catalogue has been issued. The
process of reorganisation (although mainly carried out during
the vacation) involved the closing of the Library for several
months, but the CouncU beUeves that the great improvement
effected will more than recompense users of the Library for
any temporary inconvenience they may have suffered.
The Carnegie United Kingdom Trust have recognised the
importance to students of the Society's Library by promising
a grant of £250 per annum for four years, to be spent on the
future purchase of books and periodicals and on binding.
In one way and another the reorganisation of the Library
has cost the Society at least £700. After applying towards
this amount the capital of the Edmund Gurney Fund there
remained a sum of approximately £400 to be found. The
Council are accordingly appealing to members to contribute to
a special fund to meet these expenses, no part of which can be
paid out of the money to be received from the Carnegie
Trustees. The response to this appeal has so far been satis-
factory, and the Council hope that ultimately it will be possible
to repay the whole of this expenditure without entrenching on
the Society's capital, and thereby hmiting its activities in other
directions. While on the subject of the Library the Council
wish to express to the Honorary Librarian their appreciative
gratitude for the time, thought and trouble he has expended on
his task.
March, 1928 Annual Report of the Council for 1927 215
Tuming to research, the Society co-operated with the British
Broadcasting Corporation in an experiment in telepathy in
February. " Listeners in all over the country were invited
to send to the Society any impressions they received between
certain hours on the night of February 16th, and approxi-
mately 30,000 replies were received. The analysis of this
enormous mass of material, perhaps the largest that has ever
been obtained in any single experiment in psychical research,
involved an immense amoimt of labour. A rapid preliminary
analysis was carried out with the assistance of several members
of the Society, whom the Coimcil wish to thank, and sub-
sequently it was found necessary to engage a temporary staff
of eight persons to carry out a more detailed analysis. A
certain amount of evidence for telepathy on the part of some
of the " listeners in " was obtained, and in other respects the
results were of psychological value. A report on the experi-
ment was read by Dr. Woolley at a public meeting in May,
and wiU be pubbshed later in Proceedings.
It seemed desirable to conduct further experiments with such
of the " hsteners in" as had shown evidence of telepathic
powers, and accordingly weekly experiments have been con-
ducted during the last four months with about one himdred
persons, consisting mainly of " listeners in " who were willing
to continue the February experiment, and partly of members
of the Society. These latter experiments, which are still
proceeding, are xmder the management of Mr. S. Gr. Soal.
The experiments referred to in the last Annual Report as
being carried on with Mrs. Osborne Leonard, Mrs. Warren
EUiott, and other trance mediums were brought to a close at
the end of June, by which time the Society had obtained a
quantity of material that it would obviously take a consider-
able time to sift and analyse.
Several mediums gave sittings, including Mrs. Osborne
Leonard, Mrs. Warren Elliott, Miss Bazett and Mrs. Dowden,
to all of whom the Society is indebted for the readiness with
which they co-operated. A feature of the investigations was
what has become known as " Absent Sitter Sittings," of which
Mrs. Warren Elliott and Miss Bazett between them gave ninety-
nine, while similar sittings were also given by Mrs. Lucy Smith
iH O
00 CO o
rH rH
O 00
g ^ 00
I-H O o o O O CO O O 00
rH rH
I>
rH
o rH
o
CO rH
rH
I-H
in
I-H I-H
Gi
I-H
o
CO
rH
CO
I>
rH O CO o
CO
a
c
^ o
00 o
^ o ^ I.
Ah
o ^ ^
.g
.3
Ph
>>
w
o o
O 00
a
. o
s g
§1
CD
1^
•3 P.
a;' CD
2 iS
OT
a
o
1-5
«1 .g<
tu ;
S S
S g 'S
1-1 o
to >j
a
CM O
g I C
P=( H E-i S m
OT
a .
tD 0)
O C OT
~ ° Sa
e H <!
o
O
8 H
F- OT C
CO M S
i -S
C3 ^
3
O — .
C3 03 C3
03 S .S
O O o
OT OT
OT
c' -a
o ^
3 CD
tn &
» S
> OT
d
C3
a
o
<D .S
o B
II
CD
E o d
H
X3 G
^ P3 f
o o o o
CO o =^ CI '-^ ^ ITS
CI O uO <^ ^ o
I> CO
ITS G^l O
CO rH
OS T-i O
lO rH CJ
rH CM
o CI CO O o 00 o
rH
o
o CO CI CI CO CO O
o CI CI CI CI •* rH
in CD rH CI t>
rH CI o
rH
.a
a
H^
cn
(D
^ p
O
a
p o ^
3
a
o ^
Tti lO to t~-
Cl CI CJ C3
o c; o oi
CO 00
Cl CI CJ
CI O CI
SSSSS '"^rHrHrH
OT
3
o
p
s
r> -H o
O 00 CO
O O
^ 00 OJ
3
cc
— o
5
OT
I
3 c;
<D (3
S .S .2
' C3
.2 3
t § s
d
o
o
a
o
S o
1^^
cn pt*
p. a
•H tC
-g S3 o
° S °J
S 5 -3
M t-^ cn
O o .S-
g H 7
OT ^
'
o
O <D
tS OT «
9. o
a S 3
c .-a
o
o
a
-a
o
3 <>J
'3
^ ^
-
a
1 P, J3
; S S
o CO CO
(N cs
r-l
O o 00 uO
o CO L-O uO
Ci
^ C CD O fM
— O r-i O O O
O: C. CO O O
00 00
I> 1-1
^ o
t-l
(M CO
- H ? 0
Sao .
<:
IE -c ci p ^
»3 O o
4^ J3 ^ C D
" J3 ~
.age
S S
,
^ Q ^
•?
^ O
-2 CO
- -5 S
;3
t3 S
>; o
1
O o_
•a c
i °
i5 -d
ti a
^ 3
6
o
o
sis
C3
a
t
o
CO
s
o
o _ *^
/5 S3 -S
— --^ -3
« ° 3
S S ^
=*> a p.
- ^ J
^ C =
MO''
^ 2
^ 3 o
p ^ s •
M ^ ^ '
'
~3 cj K o
-5 o o _
H B O 3
O
o
fen
o o I—
t
o 1-H
o CO
I-l I—
(
TO o
o CO
o
^-^ a
<C> n£
CI 2 C3
3 o
^ Pq
>' . - -
>
o i-H
tH
T-l
o
CO
S
if! ^4?
o
o
CO
o
o P O 1^
^
O TO
5 S
^ CO
C3 ci
QO
2 ^
.
?- ^
S M g
^ g
« =
-2 2
^ cS ^
o _
2 d o o
o ooo^ooooooco
000000000 0.-I
=4?
CI
O CO
O lO o
- -
o o
O O O O O
»0 lO O O CD
o o o ira ^
irt _r « it! c*« «
Pi4
Q
o
1-1 o
B
c3
o
CO
g 3
(1)
o
o
CI
o
o
P-i Q
^ CO
-5 S "o
,
o
CO
c
"t; ^ "5 o K
^ o
o
s o
OJ il! (D
M ^
CO
05
o
CC
" 03
a; o
a, g S CO
o
lO o
o rn
> o
8 S
CO -J
j3 o3
o b-
a
1^ o
CO
CI CI
O <M o
m
,
a: j-j ^
c<i CO ;^
CO lO _
Crt « «
March, 1928 Annual Report of the Council for 1927 219
of South Africa, who co-operated gratuitously. In these Absent
Sitter experiments objects formerly belonging to deceased
persons were handed to the medium with a view to ascer-
taining whether " communications " would result similar to
those obtained when a friend or relation of the deceased
person was present as sitter.
Fifty-two sittings of the ordinary kind were also held with
]\Irs. Warren Elliott, and nine with Mrs. Leonard.
The number of " sitters " was between forty and fifty, several
of whom had sittings with more than one medium. For each
sitting the Society provided a shorthand note-taker, and the
Secretary, when the verbatim records of the sittings had been
typed out, forwarded a copy to the sitter for annotation. It
will be imderstood that the business of taking verbatim records,
having them typed, obtaining the sitter's annotations and con-
ducting correspondence with the sitters arising out of the
annotations, involved very heavy work upon the Society's
stafi.
When this work was accomphshed there remained the task
of analysing the results, comparing the results obtained by any
one sitter through one medium with those obtained by the
same sitter through another medium, comparing the results of
the Absent Sitter Sittings with the Ordinary Sittings, and
comparing the results obtained by difierent sitters respectively.
It became clear at an early stage that it woidd be necessary
to have a complete index with a variety of cross references
compiled, and the task of compiling this index and preparing
an analysis of all the sittings was kindly undertaken by
Mr. H. F. Saltmarsh, a member of the Society, to whom the
Council wish to express their very hearty thanks.
It may be some time before a complete report of these sit-
tings can be presented, but the analysis has already proceeded
far enough to show considerable evidence of apparent super-
normal activity. In any event, investigations on as large a
scale as these experiments, or the British Broadcasting Cor-
poration experiment already mentioned, cannot fail to be of
assistance to future investigators of trance mediumships and of
telepathy at a distance, by providing, as it were, a back-
grqvmd for their own researches.
220 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March, 1928
The Society has already arranged for various members who
have shown themselves to be good sitters to have sittings
with several other mediums for the purpose of ascertaining
whether any of such medixuns deserve a more extensive in-
vestigation.
The experiments arranged by Miss Jephson of a " clair-
voyant " nature, to which reference has already been made,
are still being carried out.
A few reports of alleged poltergeists have been received by
the Society, but not so many as the Council would wish.
The Council desire once again to impress upon members the
desirability of reporting to the Society at once any cases of
haunted houses, poltergeists, premonitions, veridical hallucina-
tions, etc., occurring in their neighbourhood. Investigations
were conducted at Kessingland, near Yarmouth, and Malpas,
Cheshire ; neither investigation produced any clear evidence of
supernormal occiraences.
As the result of these rather laborious activities in the
Society's research department during last year, not only was
the regular staff of the Society occupied to the fullest possible
extent, but it was from time to time necessary to engage
additional temporary staff to deal with the trance medium
investigations as well as the B.B.C. experiment. The Council
wish to take this opportunity of expressing their very warm
thanks both to the permanent and the additional stafi for the
services they have rendered.
The Society has been enabled to carry on an active policy
of research mainly owing to the generosity of the anonymous
donor mentioned in last year's report. But the greater the
Society's activities in research the greater are its expenses in
other directions, e.g. in printing. While, therefore, the Coimcil
are for the immediate present relieved of anxiety as to the
provision of fimds for actual research, they wish to emphasise
the fact that it is essential that the general funds of the
Society should be maintained and, if possible, increased.
The Council added to its members by co-optation Professor
E. R. Dodds, of Birmingham University, Professor Julian
Huxley and Mr. J. Arthur Hill whose books on psychical
research will be known to most of our members.
Mahch, 1928 Annual Report of flie Council for 1937 221
The Council also elected as Corresponding Member, Dr. Ubald
Tartaruga, of Vienna.
Our Hon. Member, and former Secretary for Russia, Count
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, has kindly undertaken the task of
reviewing several Continental periodicals connected \vith psychi-
cal research, so that our members will have even better
opportunities than in the past of keeping themselves in touch
with work done on the Continent.
The third International Congress for Psychical Research was
held in Paris at the end of September, and the Society was
officially represented by Dr. WooUey, Mr. E. N. Bennett, and
Mr. W. H. Salter. As the question of compiling an inter-
national glossary for psychical research was being raised, the
•Council appointed a special Committee to consider the question,
and this Committee drew up a short report, which was for-
warded to Paris. The Congress, however, decided to adjourn
any definite decision as regards a glossary to the next Congress,
recommending that the different National Committees should
occupy the interval in communicating their views to each
other. With this object, our Society has got into touch with
representatives of psychical research in the United States of
America, so that if possible there may an agreed policy as
regards the English terminology.
At the meeting of the British Association for the Advance-
ment of Science at Leeds in September, the President of the
Psychology Section, Dr. William Brown, in his Presidential
Address, referred to the question of personal survival of bodily
death, and described the Society's investigations as rightl}^ claim-
ing " a place in modern psychological science."' In the same
section Dr. T. W. Mitchell read a paper on " The Phenomena
of Mediumistic Trance," which has been j)rinted in the current
issue of the Hihbert Journal. No paper concerned with psy-
chical research " had been read at the British Association
meeting since 1876 (before the foundation of the Society),
when one by Sir William Barrett was unfavourably received.^
The admission of the subject as worthy of consideration at
^ We have since ascertained tliat in 1920 at a meeting of the British Association
at CardifE Dr. Prideaux, of Nottingham, read before the Psycliological Sub-section of
Physiology (Section I) a paper entitled "A Psychologist's Attitude towards Tele-
pathy." So far as we have been able to ascertain, this jiajjer has not been published.
222 Journal of Society for Psychical Research march, 1928
the 1927 meeting was therefore a further illustration of the
increased interest now being taken by organised science in
psychical research, to which reference was made in the last
Annual Eeport.
With regard to the membership of the Society, 52 new-
Members were elected, 2 Associates were transferred to Member-
ship, and 2 Members who resigned in 1926 cancelled their
resignations. On the other hand, 34 Members and 10
Associates resigned during the year. One Member became a
Corresponding Member. 9 Members and 8 Associates died
•
9 Members and 3 Associates were removed for non-payment of
subscriptions. The total membership now stands at 1,082, of
whom 612 are Members and 470 Associates.
The Council regret to have to record the death of several,
members of long standing, including the Rev. Peter Dewar, Dr.
Walter Leaf, for many years a Member of Council and a
frequent contributor to both Proceedings and Journal, Mrs.
Biddulph Martin, Mr. Alfred E. Martineau, Miss Fehcia
Scatcherd, Mr. St. Loe Strachey, Mrs. H. J. Wilson, and Miss
C. E. Simmonds, who left the Society a legacy of £200.
Four parts of Proceedings, including Part 104 containing the
Library Catalogue, which was circulated early in January,
1928, were published during the year : Part 101 in January,
Part 102 in June, Part 103 in November, and Part 104 in
December.
The sales of the Society's publications at half-price to
Members and Associates amounted to £46 6s. 7d., a decrease
on those of the last few years. The sales to the public by
Mr. Francis Edwards realised £87 8s. 4d., a slight increase on
those of last year ; and in America by F. W. Faxon Co.,
£26 3s. 6d.
Two General Meetings, five Private Meetings, and one
Conversazione have been held during the year.
February 23rd. " A Report on Thought-Transference Experi-
ments," by Miss Ina Jephson.
March 16th. "My Transatlantic Experiences," by the President.
iMay 20th. "A Report on the Recent B.B.C. Experiment
in Telepathy," by Dr. V. J. Woolley.
^ General Meeting.
Maech, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 223
July 8th. " An Experiment in Pseudo-Scripts," by llr.
W. H. Salter.
July 22nd. " An Account of some Sittings with ^Ir. George
VaKantiae, at which. Comnnmications were given in
Old Chinese," by Dr. Neville Whymant.
October 19th. A Conversazione, when Dr. Walter F. Prince
gave an Account of his recent sittings on the Continent.
^ December 1st. The Case for Psychical Research,"" by Sir
OUver Lodge, F.E.S.
December 9th. " The Margery Mediumship," by Dr. L. E. Gr.
Crandon.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Bulletin No. VI. (pp. 71) (dated December 1927) of the Boston
Society for Psychic Research contains an account by Dr. Walter
Prince of the Psychical Congress in Paris in August and September,
1927 ; and also in fuU the paper read there by himself on " Two
Cures of '
Paranoia '
by Experimental Appeals to purporting
Obsessing Spirits."
Dr. Prince's own paper is very interesting. He was consulted
in two independent cases in which great unhappiness and serious
mental disturbance were being caused by a supposed obsessing
spirit—in each case the spirit of a dead person who had known
the patient well in Ufe. Dr. Prince, admitting to the patients
that he did not know whether there were such things as obsessing
spirits or not, acted on the assumption that the supposed spirit
was a real independent individual, and arguing with it as such,
succeeded in persuading it to cease its persecutions—at any rate
for a time experimentally—with a view to seeing if this new line
of conduct would not make it happier. The result was that the
supposed spirit took his advice, and a cure, apparently a per-
manent one, was effected.
After describing in some detail the cases, which, by the way,
differ in important respects from each other, Dr. Prince discusses
the question whether there reaUy was operating in each case a
spirit distinct from the patients themselves. On the one side we
have to note that subsequently Dr. Prince tried vainly to cure
by suggestion patients with a similar conviction of persecution,
^ General Meeting.
224 Journal of Society /w Psychical Research March, 1928
which, however, they did not attribute to a recognised dead
person. On the other side it does not appear that the supposed
spirits manifested any knowledge or experience beyond the range
of the patients' own. Dr. Prince slightly inclines, I think, to
the spiritistic hypothesis, partly on account of the dramatic con-
sistency with which it works out in these cases. But he fully
admits that there are at present " too few cases for the formula-
tion of a law." I am not sure that in his discussion he gives
sufficient weight to the hypothesis of a divided personality, with
a split-off portion as independent as " Sally ''
in Dr. Morton
Prince's celebrated Miss Beauchamp Case. But then we may
ask : what was Sally ? E. M. S.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, January, 1928. This number
begins with an interesting account by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing of
poltergeist phenomena at Kotterbach and Nikolsburg, Czechoslovakia.
In the first case chiefly stone-throwings were observed, in the
second the " phenomena " were very abundant and very various.
Dr. von Schrenck has summarised the evidence sent him by M.
Wratnik, a school teacher who witnessed some of the phenomena.
The young people whom a sceptic would suspect were three in
the first instance and two in the second. In the account of the
Nikolsburg case the descrij^tions given of the occurrences are par-
ticularly inadequate, in fact, there are hardly any. In the
narrative relating to the Kotterbach case the writer (M. Wratnik)
describes some stone-throwings witnessed by himself which, though
not convincing, are interesting. In an appendix a third case is
mentioned—the Kosten case ;
here, too, there were mysterious
stone-throwings, but a natural origin seems still more likely than
at Kotterbach, though Dr. Simsa, whom Dr. von Schrenck calls
the only student of " paraphysical " phenomena in Czechoslovakia
known to him, has expressed the belief that the origin of the
" hail of stones ... is to be sought in the spiritual world."
Professor Dr. Eduard von Liszt of Vienna relates the apparition
of a " mysterious light " (not seen by himself) observed by several
persons at Millniki, Galicia, Poland. The evidence is second- and
third-hand.
Dr. Arthur Kronfeld of the University of Berlin has an article
on the value and problematik of mysticism, being remarks on a
work of Evelyn Underhill's (Mysticism). P.-P.-S.
No. 444—Vol. XXIV. Aprii,, 1928.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NEW MEMBERS.
Cheatham, Rev. Thaddeus, Pinehurst, N.C., U.S.A.
Davies, Powys. c/o Thos. Cook & Son, Berkeley Street, Piccadilly,
London, S.W.
Hoare, Miss A. M., Felday Bramber Road, Seaford, Sussex.
Thomson, Mrs. Leslie, 9a St. Mary Abbott's Place, Kensington,
London, W. 8.
Warcollier, Dr. Rene, 79 Avenue de la Republique, Courbevoie,
Seine, France.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 246th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Wednesday, March 7th, 1928, at
5.30 p.m., the President in the Chair. There were also
present Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour, Mr.
Ernest N. Bennett, Mr. W. R. Bousfield, Professor E. R.
Dodds, the Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. J. G. Piddington,
Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. and Dr. V. J. WooUey;
also, Mr. Theodore Besterman, Hon. Librarian, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were
read and signed as correct.
The Minutes of the Annual General Meeting were read and
signed as correct.
Five new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication.—The Rt. Hon.
Gerald W. Balfour. Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr. T. W. Mitchell,
226 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1928
Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
Mr. W. Whately Smith, and Dr. V. J. Woolley.
Hoxise and Finance Committee.—]\Ix. W. W. Baggally, Mr.
W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, and
Dr. V. J. Woolley.
Library Gom^nittee.—The Council adopted the suggestion of
the Special Library Committee, whose work of re-organisation
was now brought almost to an end, that the Library Com-
mittee shall consist of the Hon. Officers, the Secretary of
the Society, ex officio, and Sir Lawrence Jones, as chairman
of the Special Library Committee, with power to co-opt, and
to elect a Secretary from their own number.
The following were co-opted as Members of the Council for
the year 1928: Mr. W. K. Bousfield, Dr. William Brown,
Professor E. K. Dodds, Mr. J. Arthur Hill, Professor Julian
Huxley, Mr. G. W. Lambert, and Mr. Whately Smith.
Mr. Theodore Besterman was appointed the representative
of the Society on the Committee of the Central Library for
Students.
The Monthly Accounts for January and February 1928 were
presented and taken as read.
OBITUARY NOTICES.
Mr. W. W. Baggally.
As we go to press, we learn with regret of the death of Mr. Baggally,
an old and active Member of the Society and of the Council.
Notwithstanding increasing physical infirmity he was to the
end of his life most regular in attendance at Meetings of the
Society and of the Council, travelling for this purpose from
his home in Brighton and back. The end came suddenly
and painlessly when he was returning home after attending
the Meeting at Denison House on March 14th.
A more detailed notice will appear later.
Mrs. Edward Smithson.
We regret to record the death, in January, 1928, of an old
and valued Member of the Society.
April, 1928 Obituary Notices 227
•
Mrs. Smithson became a Member of the Society in 1902,
and right up to the end of her long life (she died at the
age of eighty-three years) she continued in various ways to
show a keen interest in the Society's work, visiting the
Society's rooms frequently and reporting cases that she came
across, and also certain personal experiences of her own. She
last attended a Meeting of the Society on the 1st December,
1927.
Both as regards her own experiences and as regards psychical
matters generally, she retained a thoroughly critical and
scientific attitude.
At various times during her life Mrs. Smithson contributed
generously to special funds raised by the Society, and by her
Will she left the Society a legacy of £500.
Mrs. Smithson was a woman of wide culture and varied
interests : not only psychical research, but also education,
and the peace, women's suffrage and temperance movements
engaged her active support.
She lived for the earlier part of her life at York, and later
at Hitchin, where she jsresented a recreation ground for the
special use of women and children.
THE RESEARCH DEPARTMENT.
Mrs. Brackenbury is now in regular attendance at the
Society's Rooms assisting the Hon. Research Officer.
CASE.
G. 294. A Case of Collective Hallucination.
We print below a case of an apparition of the dead being
seen by more than one person at the same time. There is no
veridical element, as the fact of death was known to one
of the percipients. The interest arises from the fact that
the phantasm was seen first by a single percipient and then,
after an interval of about fifteen minutes, by the same per-
cipient and a companion who had never heard of the dead man.
Both the percipients and also the place where the apparition
228 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1928
was seen are well known to Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Salter, arid
Mr. Salter's report of the case, after interviewing the witnesses,
is printed below.
Mr. Salter's Report.
In the year 1900 an old man named Charlie C. died at the
Essex village where these events happened. I have questioned
several of his neighbours who knew him when alive, and they all
describe him as an unusually short man, between four and five
feet high, habitually carrying a long stick, which he used for
driving his pigs (pig-keeping being his means of livelihood), and
at the end of his lif,e having white hair and whiskers. Very few
people can estimate height accurately, and the figure given is
probably an under-statement, but it may be taken as established
that his shortness was exceptional and very noticeable.
He was found dead in his cottage one morning, having, accord-
ing to local tradition, spent his last hours in trying to unearth
his savings which were buried under the hearth. He was reputed
" close," and when some years later a small figure resembling him
was seen sitting on a stile a few yards from the site of his cot-
tage (which no longer exists) it was supposed that Charlie C.
had come back to look for his hoarded wealth. I have not been
able to ascertain exactly when his ghost " was first seen : the
percipients were two youths, one of whom was killed in the War,
and the other has left the district, and cannot now be traced.
They reported what they had seen to a Mr. George H., who
lived not far off, and the only importance of the incident evidenti-
ally is that the first percipient on the occasion I am about to
relate is a son of Mr. George H., who had heard family talk of
Charlie C.'s ghost being seen.
The case was first reported to my wife and myself a few weeks
after the second appearance of the little old man, on the
12th October, 1927, by the second of the two percipients. Miss
Ethel G., who mentioned it rather casually in connection with
another supposed supernormal occurrence, which was, in fact,
nothing of the kind. Not until the lapse of some weeks further
did we hear sufficient details to make it worth while investigating.
I thereupon interviewed both percipients, and took down their
statements. Miss G.'s statement was obtained first and is there-
fore printed first here, as follows
:
April, 1928 Case 229
On the 12th October, 1927, I was walking up [the] High
Street, going south on the west side of the road, with
Mr. Fred H., about 7.15 p.m. I was walking next the walk.
There was some moonlight. [The moon was full on the
10th October.] As we passed the stile opposite [Mr. W.'s]
house I saw a figure seated on the top rail of the stile. It
looked to me like an old, white-haired man, very small, as if
when standing he could not have been much more than four
feet. He was wearing some sort of hat ; I think a slouch
hat. He had white hair, but I could not see his face owing
to the shape of his hat. I could not see what clothes he
was wearing. He held one hand out with a stick in it. I
did not stop to look more closely.
After we had passed, as I did not recognise the man, I
asked Mr. [Fred] H. who he was. He said he didn't know.
On the following Sunday I went to Mr. Fred H.'s house,
and we started discussing things. I asked Mr. Fred H. if he
had ever found out who that little old man was. He turned
to his mother, and she asked me what little old man I meant.
I then described him. She said it was supposed to be the
ghost of the man who lived in the house which used to stand
near the stile and was burnt down. She said he had been
found dead on his hearth over where somp money of his had
been buried. Mr. Fred H. then said, " I knew all the time
who it was, but I wouldn't tell her (meaning me), as I
thought she would be frightened."
Mr. Fred H., independently and without having seen Miss G.'s
statement, gave me the following account :
I saw the old man on the stile about 7 p.m. when walking
from my house to meet Miss G. He was between four and
five feet high, wore felt hat and overcoat, and dangled stick
from his hand. I did not see his face then : I saw his grey
hairs. He sat on top rail. I saw him again when walking
with Miss G. at 7.15. That was the first night I had seen
him.
Since then I saw him three times in October. On these other
occasions there was no moon. It was hard to see him then.
I first heard about the old man appearing years ago : my
people talked of it.
230 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1928
I forget the name : Charlie C, I think.
It is twenty-one years since the cottage was burnt down.
He died before that.
I then read over Miss G.'s statement, and he added :
Having heard Miss G.'s account read over, I confirm it
entirely.
(Signed) F. H., Nov. 24 [1927].
Mrs. George H., when spoken to, generally confirmed Miss G.'s
account of the conversation at her house the following Sunday.
She is not, however, certain whether Miss G.'s mention of the
apparition preceded or not her own reference to Charlie C.'s ghost
having been previously seen.
Mr. Fred H. is about twenty-five years old, and helps his father
in a carting business : he was born in the village. Miss G. first
came to the neighbourhood not quite two years before her experi-
ence of October, 1927 : she is a trained children's nurse. Miss G.
has never previously had any similar experience. Mr. Fred H.
and his father and mother are all predisposed to take supposedly
supernormal occurrences seriously. In particular, every year from
October to Christmas they experience phenomena of a mildly
poltergeist type in their own house.
The tradition of Charlie C.'s ghost does not seem to be widely
spread in the village. It was unknown to Mr. W., who lives op-
posite the stile, and has resided in the village over forty years :
to the doctor, who has lived about fifty yards away since before
the War : to the tenant of the land lying just across the stile,
who uses the stile constantly by day and night to see after his
live stock; and neither my wife nor I had ever heard of the
" ghost " till Miss G. told us of it.
The stile is of the ordinary kind : it is flanked on the north
by a brick and rubble wall about four feet six inches high : be-
hind the wall is a poultry run, six-foot wire netting supported by
rough posts. On the north side of the stile is an ordinary farm
gate, opening into pasture land. The site of Charlie C.'s cottage
is about twenty yards further north.
There is a street lamp at no great distance, but it does not
illuminate the stile direct : the light from it touches the wall ten
yards from the stile, and is there cut off by an intervening cot-
tage, thus, especially on moonless nights, creating a dark
April, 1928 Case 231
" pocket " near the stile, which, however, gets a little faint light
from Mr. W.'s house opposite, distant approximately eighteen
yards. The moon was, however, at the time of the apparition a
little past the full.
The possibility of some living person having been on the stile
at 7 p.m. and again at 7.15 p.m. may, I think, be excluded. It
is not a place where people sit on cold nights, and the weather
was distinctly cold then ; least of all would children be likely to
be found there ; and in view of Charlie C.'s almost dwarfish stature,
none but a child would be likely to'be mistaken for his " ghost."
Apparently the approach of the poltergeist season in the H.
household, combined with family gossip as to Charlie C.'s "ghost"
having been seen at the stile, produced a hallucination in Fred
H.'s mind, which revived a quarter of an hour later and became
transferred to his companion, who knew nothing of Charlie C. or
of the ghostly associations of the spot.
W. H. Salter.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie. February, 1928.
The translation of Mr. Dingwall's report on " Margery " {Proc.
S.P.R., Vol. xxxvi. Part 98) is resumed after a long interval, a
difierent translator being now employed.
Frau Maria Leinv/eber of Wohldorf, near Hamburg, narrates
some personal experiences in table-tilting. The experiences are
remote and the account is uncorroborated, but Frau Leinweber
inspires confidence as a narrator, and the paper is worth ponder-
ing over. Some of the incidents described undoubtedly suggest
telepathy from one of the sitters {not touching the table), and one
incident (p. 76) goes beyond such an explanation. On the other
hand, deliberate and repeated statements are described which are
not in accordance with real fact. On the whole the paper tends
to revive in one the impression how abstruse, complicated and
mysterious the subject is !
Herr Florizel von Renter describes an interesting' case of auto-
matic writing connected with his visit to Ireland in company with
his mother. The incident, which occurred in August, 1927, at the
Royal Hotel, Giant's Causeway, certainly suggests at first sight
post-mortem action by the deceased mother of the hotel-owner.
232 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1928
Professor A. Kronfeld continues to comment on Evelyn Under-
bill's work, and Professor Richard Hoffmann of Vienna has an
article on " j^arapsychical " elements in St. Paul's experiences.
Studienrat Dr. Olaf Garben of Hamburg discusses Indian con-
juring and brings forward the evidence of a certain Herr Oscar
Schlosser, who avers having been present in the autumn of 1911 at
a fakir performance at Singapore, at which sitting the photographic
camera failed to register some of the things the observers saw.
Herr Schlosser's evidence is given at first hand (it appeared at first
in the paper Hamburg 8 Ukr Ahendblatt of July 17th, 1927),
and, whatever may be thought of it, is a valuable contribution
to a very tantalising subject. I may add, as I have narrated
elsewhere {Zeitschrift fiir Kritischen Okkuliismus, I. Band, p. 197),
that a similar statement was also made to me many years ago
by an eye-witness. Unfortunately, all my efforts to get from this
naval officer a written account were of no avail
!
Count Klinckowstroem discusses the same fascinating problem.
In view of his well-known sceptical attitude, it is instructive to
see him discussing such cut-and-dried explanations of the whole
matter by fraud as M, Heuze's. On the other hand, I very much
hesitate to endorse the conclusion apparently arrived at by
Dr. J. B. Moller, a Rostock physician, that mass-suggestion was
practised by an Indian conjurer in 1919—at the Copenhagen
" Tivoli." This, I confess, seems to me in the highest degree
improbable.
Studienrat R. Lambert, who has, as is well known, made a
special study of Eusapia Paladino's phenomena, prints a long letter
sent him by Professor Courtier, the well-known author of a report
on E. P.'s seances given by her at the Institut general Psycho-
logique in 1905-190$. In this letter M. Courtier declares—an in-
teresting admission—that he has always been convinced of the
genuineness of some of E. P.'s [table-] levitation phenomena, without,
however, being in possession of data which would permit him to
impose this conviction on others.
" Has Psychical Research any Practical Value ? " is the title
of an article by Mrs. Helen C. Lambert of New York, who de-
scribes in it the work done by Dr. Titus Bull. This gentleman,
as many members of the S.P.R. know, starts in his treatment of
insanity from the presumption of the reality of spirit possession :
he is helped by " workers " from the Beyond, and avails himself
April, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 233
of the services of a medium, Mrs. Duke. Studienrat Lambert
calls attention in a footnote to the way in which Dr. Bull's
methods confirm those used by other researchers, such as Dr. Wick-
land and Dr. Magnin.^ Whatever may be thought of the hien-
fonde of Dr. Bull's presumption, this is surely a case of by
their fruits shall ye judge them," or of " the end justifying the
means." If by taking " spirits " at their face value we can relieve
any appreciable amount of human suffering, let the plunge be
made—provided that it be limited to one narrow domain for
practical purposes only.
Out of the many notices contained in Kleine Mitteilungen I
select one which informs us of the foundation of an Austrian
Society for Psychical Research. This Society is presided over by
Professor Hans Thirring, Professor R. Hoffmann (mentioned above)
being vice-president and Countess Z. Wassilko-Serecki (the well-
known protectress of Eleonore Ziigun) secretary.
We heartily wish the new organisation a fruitful and not too
trying career !
Zagadnienia metapsychiczne, Nos. 13-16, 1927. In an interesting
paper on " SujDernormal Perception of Sense Impressions," Dr.
Klesk attempts to prove that our senses afford us no criterion of
the reality of the phenomena we perceive. He concludes that in
Psychical Research instruments of control are indispensable, the
evidence supplied by these instruments being alone of any value
for science.
The Warsaw Society of Psycho-Physics prints a pwces-verbal of
experiments made with a canine celebrity, " Bim," a " bull-dog
boxer " belonging to M. Sadowski. In the presence of twenty-one
members of the Society and the owner, the dog answers questions
by a certain number of barkings, in accordance with a " code
"
agreed upon (one for " yes," two for " no," etc.). The dog has
its eyes fastened on its master, and when it is blindfolded, the
results are negative. Still, two or three experiments succeeded,
M. Sadowski being in another room and the door between the
two being shut. The questions are, however, put aloud. The
dog answers correctly that 2x3 = 6, that 2x2 = 4, that ^25 = 5.
Altogether sixteen experiments are narrated. They justify us
in wishing that such trials might be repeated.
^Cf. Also Dr. AValter Prince's paper in Bulhtin No VI. of the Boston iSociety
for Psychic Research.
234 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1928
Two Societies print reports of their activities : the Polish
Metapsychical Society founded in 1926 '(not to be confused ap-
parently with a Polish Society for Psychical Research), and the
Warsaw Psycho-Physical Society.
I may be permitted to express the hope that henceforth these
numerous bodies will give more attention to the investigation and
proper authentification of spontaneous cases than hitherto.
A supposed spirit-photograph taken at a seance of Guzik's
shows us two very orthodox spirit-forms dressed in white and
floating in the air : they contrast favourably with the materialised
monkeys, prehistoric men, etc., supposed to haunt this medium's
sittings.
M. Zytomirski has another article on the etheric body.
Dr. Czubrynski discusses at length the " mediumship " of Mme.
Sabira Huramowicz. The experiments narrated took place in the
rooms of the Polish Society for Psychical Research and at Dr.
Sokolowski's. Most of these consisted of descriptions given by
the medium of persons who had been in contact with objects
handed to Mme. Sabira. The psychometric descriptions given were
sometimes very detailed and in some cases exact. The medium
was rather vague so far as geography and time were concerned,
and we are told that the prehistoric era was completely impene-
trable to her ! As in M. Ossowiecki's case, we are told, impres-
sions connected with living beings were perceived much more
easily than those connected with " dead nature " {martwa przyroda).
Several instances are given which induce Dr. Czubrynski to believe
that the source of the knowledge shown is derived not from the
objects themselves, but from the minds of those present.
P.-P.-S.
EEVIEW.
Leila Holterhoff Heyn et Rene Maublanc : Une education
faroptique. Decouverte du monde visuel par une aveugle.
N. R. F., Paris, 1926. 224 pages. 10 fr. 50.
M. Rene Maublanc, " ancien eleve de I'^cole normale superieure,
AgTege de Philosophic," tells us that after reading in 1921 Jules
Romains' ^ treatise on paroptic vision, he felt that the subject
^ Kmn de plume of M. Louis Farigoule, " professeur agrege de I'Univer-
site " (and author of the very witty but mechant play, " Knocke ou le
April, 192S Review 235
was worthy of a thorough investigation. He was present at some
experiments (November 1922-January 1923), concluded that " the
facts were undeniable," and tried then to investigate on his own
account. His first attempts were rather unsuccessful, when he
learnt that in September 1927 a Mrs. Leila HolterhofE Heyn had
written M. Jules Eomains from New York saying she intended
going to Europe and wanted to see him. She added that she
was blind, had studied psycho-analysis and medicine, and was
well known in New York. She arrived in Paris in December,
but M. Jules Romains was ill and advised her to apply to M.
Maublanc.
Mme. Heyn has been completely blind since the age of a
year and a half, and has two artificial eyes. Two medical cer-
tificates printed in the book attest her blindness, and the fact is
absolutely beyond doubt. This calamity has not prevented her,
however, from studying at Columbia University and in Berlin and
from understanding several languages.
M. Maublanc called on her for the first time on 21st December,
1924, but was able to begin his " subject's " education at the
end of January only. He had altogether sixty-nine seances
—
with intervals—the last described taking place on the 15th of
October, 1925. Apparently other sittings have taken place since
(p. 194), but we find no particulars about them.
They never lasted more than an hour, M. Maublanc tells us,
generally three-quarters of an hour.
He began by putting Mrs. M. into a slight hypnotic trance,
which together with M. Jules Romains he calls regime d. After
a very short time iVIrs. H. was able to plunge herself into that
state without external aid. Some subsidiary details were sub-
sequently varied ; for instance, it was decided that after closing
her eyes at the beginning for a short time she might open them
again after M. Maublanc had counted up to thirty, that her eye-
lids should not feel tired.
triomphe de la medecine "). The treatise in question is entitled La vision
ertra-retinienne et le sens ^woph'^ue. Paris, N.R.F., 1920. After some
theoretical considerations on the anatomy and physiology of the skin and
on experimental psychologj^ the writer narrates the result of his experiments
(objective experiments with "clairvoyants" and blind people, subjective
experiments on himself), puts forward the explanations he thinks possible,
and formulates a theory of his own : that of the ocells or microscopic
organits {sic) of vision, localised in the human tegumen.
236 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1928
The first paroptic trials were attempted at the third sitting and
indefatigably pursued up to the end.
M. Bene Maublanc claims that by dint of education and per-
severance he has been able to make Mrs. H. " see." " She dis-
tinguishes day from night, she knows the sun. She has created
for herself a whole new world, the world of colours and visual
forms. She has learnt to know our visual signs, letters, numbers
and drawings. She lives in another space. Her existence has
become richer, has been transformed " (p. 146).
He further tells us that Mrs. H. has become capable of seeing
through the various parts of her body : through her face in the
main, more through her cheek-bones and eye-lids, she says, than
through her forehead. Rather well through the fingers. A little
through the nape of the neck {ibidem).
On the other hand, this " vision extra-retinienne " appears to
be most capricious. " Why," asks Mrs. Holterhofi Heyn, whose
account (translated from the English) follows in the book that of
M. Maublanc, " was I unable in the course of a journey in
Switzerland and in Italy to see anything in the mountains ?
Why, on the contrary, in my good days, was I able to perceive,
in a gondola, the water of Venice ? Why did it even give me
an almost pleasant feeling of colour ? Why can I on certain days
perceive objects at a distance and not those which are close to
me ? Why have I never seen the sky whilst being sensible of
the sun "
(p. 193).
To the Psychical Researcher the experiments dealing with the
discerning of colours and—especially—the reading of words are
undoubtedly the most interesting by far. It is difficult not to
feel strongly impressed by the accounts. So far as the colours
(red, blue and yellow chiefly) are concerned the results obtained
exceed most undoubtedly what chance-coincidence can produce
:
still mistakes are in most cases not infrequent. But when it
comes to the word-reading chance guessing is altogether out of
the question. I will content myself with two or three examples
sufficiently striking. The first is particularly deserving of atten-
tion, because the sitting in question is one of the very few when
a third person was present (the lady companion, who may have
been present at all—see further on—has preserved on the subject
a complete silence).
On 12th October, 1925 (68th seance), M. Rene Maublanc pulls
April, 1928 Review 237
out of his pocket a copy of the newspaper Le Quotidien, and
requests Mrs. Heyn to read the title. At first she finds out that
the letters are red, she then reads the following letters : i, n, i,
d, e, n. She then says the first is a capital G, confusing it
with Q. . . . She then reads n, a (corrected as o), then ti," and re-
constitutes the word Quotidien. She fails to see the " Le (p. 145).
M. Andre Cusenier, a friend of M. Maublanc, is present at the seance.
On 23rd September, 1925 (64th sitting), M. Rene Maublanc places
under a sheet of glass in a small frame a piece of white pasteboard,
upon which he has written in Indian ink and in capital letters, 5-6
centimeters high, the words " Vision extra-retinienne " in two lines.
Mrs. H. begins by recognising the number of lines and the
length of each line. She then reads separate letters in the
following order : R, e, n, i, t, e, o. She begins to place them in
order, reading r, e, i, n, t. She inserts the t " at the third
place and quickly completes the word " retinienne." She then
recognises " extra " and " vision "
(p. 137).
On 8th October, Mrs. Heyn reads " without difficulty " (but
after some groping) the word " Volonte " (being the name of a
new paper which has just appeared) and the word voloir " (for
" vouloir "), the leading article being so entitled. Two days later
she reads the word Mistress " (sic) preceding her own Christian
name and surnames, and guesses that her own name is meant.
In this case, again, the words are written in Indian ink upon a
piece of pasteboard and are placed under a sheet of glass ;
they
are 5-8 millimeters high (p. 143). (Of course, practically the
experiment amounts here almost to the reading of one word only.)
Such results are, it will be admitted, extremely remarkable.
Unfortunately, they are undoubtedly vitiated to a certain extent.
M. Maublanc tells us that it was " quite necessary to guide
the subject at close quarters {de tres pres), and to encourage
her at every moment. It is impossible to let her toss about
alone. Could we teach a child to read if we do not encourage
it, if we do not correct its mistakes ? At a test sitting {seance
de controle), where a possible fraud must be eliminated, those
present obviously must not help the subject. But at education
sittings such help is indispensable "
(p. 71). Possibly it is : the
whole question is how far the help afforded by the experimenter
goes. In the Rene Maublanc-Mrs. Holterhoff Heyn case I am
afraid it went pretty far.
238 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1928
On the other hand, one must not exaggerate matters. Judging
by Mrs. HolterhofE Heyn's account which follows M. Maublanc's
this lady is not only highly cultured, but quite a personne d'elite.
Her interest in the experiments was both individual and scientific.
Is it possible to believe that she was deluded ? that she believed
herself to see, when, as a matter of fact, she was merely prompted
by her teacher, who was simply suggesting to her what she was to
see ? Surely such an explanation is inadequate.
Undoubtedly both accounts are sadly wanting in some par-
ticulars. Telepathy is hardly mentioned as a possible explanation ;
involuntary whisjDering is, I believe, not mentioned at all. As
I am writing these two words my memory goes back some forty-
two or three years. I had when a boy a teacher who was in
the habit of whispering himself the answers to the questions he
put me. I very often availed myself of this—undoubtedly uncon-
scious—habit. I do not think the explanation of the results
obtained by M. Maublanc lies in such whispering (much less
audible than in my teacher's case), which might have been uncon-
sciously picked up by Mrs. H. H. and then externalised and
transformed into alleged vision. But surely such an explanation
ought not to have been lost sight of
!
Mme. Heyn's lady-companion was present, M. Maublanc tells
us (p. 31), at the sittings, though it is not quite clear if she was
invariably present. If so, her testimony would have been very
valuable. It is not given.
In most cases—as my readers may have judged by themselves
—the description of the experiments is far too brief. In some
cases this brevity is almost irritating. Mrs. H. H. tells us, for
instance, that " a few days ago I was able to decipher a word
quite alone. It took infinite time, and I was as tired as I would
have been after a whole day's work. Still I succeeded, and
I had exactly the impression a little child has when reading its
first word " (p. 192). It does not even occur to the writer
—
a most distinguished, in fact a superior woman, I repeat, judging
by her own account—to explain to us Jww she ascertained that
she had correctly deciphered the word !
On p. 126 M. Maublanc tells us that on 7th September (1925)
Mrs. H. H. stated to him that she went to the Comic Opera the
day before, and .saw very distinctly the stage and the artistes.
" She can see, however, only one person at a time. If she fastens
April, 1928 Revietv 239
her eyes upon him when he ajjpears on the stage she can follow
his movements."
No evidence whatever is given that in such a case—similar to
not a few others—we have not to deal with a purely subjective
impression. Such inability to distinguish between what may be
subjective and what is undoubtedly objective is disconcerting.
Scientifically speaking, the book Une education paroptique leaves,
therefore, much to be desired. Still, it is a fascinating book
written with obvious sincerity and in good faith. Also a very
puzzling book—of which the bibliographical part (pp. 203-227) is
not, perhaps, the least interesting. P.-P.-S.
SHOKT NOTICES.
The Mind. Edited by R. J. S. McDoavall. AVith an Introduc-
tion by Ernest Barker. 8vo, pp. xvi, 316. London, 1927.
Price 8s. 6d. net.
In this course of lectures a number of specialists were given
the opportunity of expressing the attitude of their several sciences
to the problems of the mind. It says much for Dr. McDowaU's
impartiality (though perhaps more for the inevitable trend of
contemporary thought) that of these lectures his own, from the
point of view of Physiology, is the only one in which the obso-
lescent epiphenomenal or parallelist view is still maintained. All
the other lecturers, in varying degrees, and from their varying
standpoints of Psychology, Psychotherapy, Physics, Philosophy,
Education, Aesthetics, Anthropology and Sociology, would agree
with Dr. Julian Huxley, a member of our Council, who, speaking
from the point of view of Biology, concludes (p. 3) that " the
bill cannot be met except by the assumption that consciousness
has evolved from more primitive properties of life which belong
to the mental category."
T. K. Oesterreich, Les Possedes. Authorised translation by
Rene Sudre. 8vo, pp. 478. Paris, 1927. Price 30 francs.
Our Corresponding Member Dr. Oesterreich's learned work on
possession is well known to students of the anthropological side
of psychical research. A work which attempts to pass in review
so large a subject in all its manifestations among the uncivilised,
the archaic and the classical peoples, as well as in contemporary
times, must necessarily be at times somewhat superficial. But
Journal of Society for Psychical Research April, 1928
on the whole the information is sound and the psychological
interpretation convincing. M. Sudre's translation, like all his
work, is thoroughly efficient.
E. Clephan Palmer, The Riddle of Spiritualism. 8vo, pp. xiv,
U6. London [1927]. Price 4s. 6d. net.
In this volume is reflected the state of mind produced in an
average journalist, at the outset wholly ignorant of psychical
phenomena, by a brief intercourse with spiritualists. Although he
apparently did not consider it necessary to get into contact with
English students of psychical research, he came to the conclusion
that, while it is still necessary to keep an open mind, the weight
of evidence is, on the whole, somewhat in favour of those who
maintain a scientific attitude.
C. DE Vesme, Histoire du Spiritualisme experimented. 8vo, pp.
xxviii, 684. Paris, 1928. Price 35 francs net.
M. de Vesme's book is an unsystematic survey of a variety of
mysterious phenomena as found in all parts of the world and at
all ti mes. Wandering from the origins of religions to the mana
of certain uncivilised peoples, and from ordeals by fire and water
to dowsing, it is a little difficult to perceive the author's intention
in calling his book a history of spiritualism.
Vohn Esfoma. 8vo, pp. xvi, 220, 2 ill. Privately published [1927].
The community known as "Faithists" produced their "new Bible,"
the Gospels of Oahspe (S.P.R. Library, 7N17) in Xew York in 1884.
They have now changed their name to "The Esean Community of
India," and have published this new manifesto. It is an interesting
specimen of the printer's and binder's art.
Aelfrida Tillyard, Spiritual Exercises and their Results. 8vo,
pp. viii, 216. London, 1927. 7s. 6d. net.
Mrs. Graham (Aelfrida Tillyard's) essay in psychology and com-
parative religion is a good deal more than it claims to be in its
modest sub-title. For the author breaks much new ground in
her survey of the spiritual exercises, chiefly the meditations,
taught and practised in Hinduism, Buddhism, Islam and
Christianity. The application of modern psychological principles
to these practices yields results interesting not only to the
theologian, but to the student of psychical research as well. This
may be seen particularly in the section dealing with visions and
" auditions " in the Christian practices (pp. 184 et seq.). Th. B.
No. 445.—Vol. XXIV. - ' . May, 1928.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i.,
ON
WEDISIESBAY, JUNE 6th, 1928, at 5 pjn.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" Evocation of the Dead in Madagascar
"
WILL BE READ BY
Mr. THEODORE BESTERMAN.
N.B.
—
JVb Tickets of Admission are issuedfor this Afeetitig. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
242 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mat, i928
NEW MEMBERS.
De Laumont, Comte Marquiset, 32 Avenue Malakofi, Paris.
Giles, E. v., The Firs, Dursley, Glos.
Gurdon, J., 44 Pont Street, London, S.W.I.
Rawitzki, Dr. Carl, Friederikstr. 12, Bochum, Germany.
Saltruarsh, Mrs. H. F., Woodcote, Lynton, N. Devon.
Scaife, J. D., Coddington Hall, Nr. Newark, Notts.
Wallace, Miss Margaret, 18 Marlborough. Place, London, N.W. 8.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 247th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Thursday, April 19th, 1928, at
6.30 p.m. the President in the Chair. There were also
present : the Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, Professor Julian
Huxley, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Dr. F. C. S.
Schiller, and Dr. V. J. WooUey ;
also, Mr. Theodore Bester-
man, Hon. Librarian, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct. Seven new Members were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for March, 1928, were presented and
taken as read.
Arrangements for the Private Meeting on April 24th, and
the requisition of a Special General Meeting by a small
group of members, were considered.
Resolved that the following Resolution be entered in the
Minute Book and a copy sent to Mrs. Baggally :
The Council have learnt with regret of the sudden death
after the meeting on March 14, 1928, of Mr. W. W. Baggally,
an old and valued Member of the Society and of the Council.
They desire to put on record their keen appreciation of the
many services which Mr. Baggally rendered to the Society, and
to express their deep sympathy with Mrs. Baggally and her
son in the loss they have sustained.
51 A V, 1928 Case 243
LIST OF DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY.
Viscountess Grey of ial- Mrs. Carpenter £1
1
1 0
lodon - - - - £25 0 0
TA r X^ T^ 1 1
Professor E. R. Dodds - 1 1 0
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S. 25 0 0 Miss A. V. Button -
1 1 0
Sir LawrenceJ. Jones, Bart. 10 0 0
ml TT TTl 1 Tn •! 1
The Hon. Everard Feud-
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick 10 0 0 ing - - - - 1 1 0
Mr. W. b. Montgomery Mrs. Hopkinson 1 1 0
Smith - - - - 10 0 0 Mr. H. F. Saltmarsh 1 1 0
Miss Irene Putnam ($25) - 5 1 5 Lady Sybil Smith -
I 1 0
Mr. Ji,. JN. Bennett - 5 0 0
TIT Tn T HiT CM.
Mr. F. J. M. Stratton 1 1 0
Mr. A. K. Bonus 5 0 0
T\ T m TTi TTT J
Mr. T. E. Wood 1 1 0
Mr. 0. H. Browne -
5 0 0 Anonymous 1 0 0
Lady Dewar -
5 0 0 Miss A. M. Brown - 1 0 0
Rev. W. S. Irving -
5 0 0 Rev. A. T. Fryer - 1 0 0
Mr. W. H. Salter -
5 0 0
Ti jf" TTT T 1 J
Mr. G. W. Lambert 1 0 0
Mrs. W. H. Salter -
5 0 0 Mr. David J. Lewis 1 0 0
Dr. (J. S. ScniUer 5 0 0
XT H If A T Jill
Hon. Mrs. A. Lyttelton - 1 0 0
Dr. Walter F. Prince 4 0 0 Mrs. Henry Pennington -
1 0 0
Mr. I. C. Grondahl -
3 3 0 Mr. Dudley D. Pontifex -
1 0 0
Mrs. Gaskell - 2 2 0 Mr. Blewett Lee (S5.00) -
0 19 6
Mrs. Vatcher -
2 9 0 Mr. Harrison Bowne
Mr. A. Weldon 2 0 Smith (S5.00) 0 19 6
Mr. 0. Herrmann -
0 0 Mr. Kenneth Carruthers -
0 10 6
TVff— T A —Al. „ TT"I1
Mr. J. Arthur Hill -
2 0 0 Mrs. Kenneth Campbell -
0 10 0
Mrs. C. E. Jenkins -
2 0 0 Miss S. E. Perkins -
0 10 0
Mrs. Henry Arnold -
1 1 0 Mr. F. D. Perrott -
0 10 0
Mr. W. R. Bousfield, Dr. A. N. Pollock - 0 10 0
K.C., F.R.S. 1 0 Miss A. E. White -
0 10 0
Mr. Staveley Bulford 1 0 Miss Candler -
0 5 0
Mrs. Harry Burton -
1 0 Mr. E. S. Thomas -
0 5 0
Lady Butt 1 0 Anonymous 0 2 6
Miss Campbell- Lang 1 0
CASE.
L. 1284. Some Evidence Obtained at Recent Sittings with
Mrs. Leonard and Mrs. Brittain.
We have received through Miss H. A. Dallas a report on
certain incidents which occurred at two sittings, one with Mrs.
Leonard, the other with Mrs. Brittain, at which Miss Dallas was
present, in the first case as note-taker, in the second as sitter.
The sitter at Mrs. Leonard's was a friend of Miss Dallas's,
Mrs. John, and the sitting took place on August 20, 1926
;
Miss Dallas's sitting with Mrs. Brittain took place on the follow-
ing day.
244 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mat, 1928
In sending an account of these incidents to the Editor,
Mrs. Salter, Miss Dallas wrote as follows :
Innisfail, Crawley, Sussex,
March 1, 1928.
... I enclose an account of an experience I had in 1926. I
think you may like to print it in the Journal. . . . Mrs. John is
quite willing that her name should be printed, but please do not
print her address. . . .
H. A. Dallas.
With this letter were enclosed the two following statements :
1. Statement by Miss Dallas.
During the month of August 1926 I visited Mrs. Osborn Leonard
in the capacity of note-taker with a friend. The interview was
long and satisfactory ; one of her two sons appeared to be com-
municating the whole time. Towards the end of the sitting one
or two remarks were addressed to me. The communicator told
me that when my time came to pass on I should not have a
long illness, but I should just " drift out." Needless to say I had
asked no questions, and I was too intent on taking notes to be
thinking of my own concerns.
On the following day I had an appointment with Mrs. Brittain
for myself. After a while, during which messages from my own
relatives were given, I asked :
" Is there any message for the
friend I was with yesterday ?
" I gave no name or information
connected with her. At once the response came ; both sons were
referred to and messages were given inclusive of details of which
I was ignorant ; for instance, the father's name was mentioned.
This I did not know, as my friend had been a widow for some
time when I first made her acquaintance within recent years.
Then, unsolicited, I was told :
" You will not die of disease, you
will just drift over." Almost the same expression was used as on
the previous day. I was not anxious about my health, and I was
quite unaware of the fact that I should have to go into hospital,
before the close of the year, for a serious operation, which has
been successfully performed.
The incident seems to me worth recording and sending to our
journal, because it seems to indicate that the same intelligence
was in communication on successive dates through two mediums.
Mav, 1928 Case 245
and it suggests that this intelligence wished to give me some
assurance with regard to my health, which was quite unsought,
and in view of future events, more opportune than I knew.
I may add that I had never seen or known my friend's son,
but that the statement was made at the interview with Mrs.
Leonard that he had come into contact with relatives of mine in
the Unseen life. This might account for his being able, through
" Feda," and through " Belle," to give the message which I re-
ceived on both occasions. jj ^ Dallas
2. Note by Mrs. John.
There is a very interesting sequel to this sitting with Mrs.
Osborn Leonard. Miss Dallas, who had kindly taken notes for
me, returned home with me to spend the night, as she had an
appointment the following morning with Mrs. Brittain at thv
L.S.A. We were both very tired, so did not discuss the ex-
perience much, and the notes being very straightforward did not
need revising. Before leaving in the morning Miss Dallas asked,
would I like her to ask Mrs. Brittain if there was any message
for me ? I gladly fell in with her kind thought and the result is
here given.
After receiving some evidential messages herself during a pause,
she asked :
" Is there any message for the friend I have just left ?
"
The answer came :
" She is better for your visit " (which was very
true). It went on :
There is a boy here who was killed flying. Such a lovely
boy—broad in figure but rather thin ; 19 to 23 years of age.
I hear Mum and Mater. A brother with him slightly taller
than the other boy—two—brothers—one jolly, loving, affec-
tionate, the other more reserved. I also get a short name,
like Jim. They say they know their father better now.
H. A. D. Can they send her a message ?
Give their love. She did something for one that she did
not do for the other. They are so glad she has pulled herself
together. There is another brother—in the body—they are
calling him the Kid—very nice (Mrs. Brittain then said some-
thing which gave her the impression they wanted to chaff
him and she added) : They would like to pull his leg.
Her husband, two sons, and her mother who passed on
rather suddenly.
246 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mat, 1928
(A name Lily or Lizzie was then mentioned.) She is very
well in herself, and going on as they would wish. They are
very satisfied with what she is doing, that she has settled down
after being the Wandering Jew." (This was twice repeated,
as if it were specially to be impressed on H. A. D.).
Now I think these messages simply extraordinary in view of the
fact that I was not there, nor anyone nor anything connected with
me. Mrs. Brittaiu is I know a wonderful psychometrist, but this
goes beyond.
To take the messages in their sequence :
My eldest boy was not killed while flying, but he was in the
flying corps at the time of his death, and his passing on was so
sudden and unexpected that it was a very reasonable error to
conclude that he was killed while flying.
[This error was not due to thought transference from me, as I
knew that both the sons died in their beds. H. A. D.].
The physical description though scanty was good, for he was
remarkably broad for his height which was medium. He was 30
when he died, but both he and his brother looked much younger
than his age.
The Mater too is good. Thousands of boys call their mothers
Mum, as my second boy did, but my eldest son invariably ad-
dressed me and wrote to me as " Mater," a rather uncommon
title in these days.
His brother was slightly taller, and the character description of
the two is exact.
Jim " was the name of my husband, and to understand the
reference they made to him I must explain. There had been
an estrangement for some years, though they always retained
their afiection for him.
[I was quite unaware of this, and of her husband's name.
H. A. D.].
I nursed one boy for nearly four years ; the other had pro-
fessional nurses for the short time he was ill.
The other brother, in the body, is clearly my youngest son, and
" the Kid " was one of their many titles for him ; their chaffing
and leg-pulling at his expense when in his later teens is well
remembered by all who knew them.
[This detail and the nickname were quite unknown to me.
H. A. D.].
Way, 1928 Case 24,7
Then their mutual satisfaction at my settling down after being
the Wandering Jew very clearly refers to the fact that we are
now settled in a house that is a real home, after living in flats
and hunting about for a suitable house for many years ; so that
taken altogether I think this experience of Miss Dallas on my
behalf really remarkable.
The only error as far as I can tell was about my mother ; but
as I was only two when she died Mrs. Brittain may be right about
that ; nor do I recognise " Lily " or " Lizzie."
M. John.
In reply to a subsequent enquiry by Mrs. Salter, Mrs. John
wrote that her eldest son had died on February 26th, 1919,
and the yoiinger on January 31st, 1923. Miss Dallas never
met either of these young men ; her acquaintance with Mrs.
John began on April 17th, 1923.
THE CASE OF THERESA NEUMANN.
We print below a short history of the remarkable case of stig-
matisation which has recently occurred at Konnersreuth, and
has aroused widespread interest. This account is derived from
various reports published from time to time in newspapers and
periodicals (chiefly foreign), for most of which we have to thank
Coimt Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
The subject of the experience is a Bavarian peasant girl,
Theresa Neumann of Konnersreuth, now twenty-nine years old.
A report of the case by the Rev. Herbert Thurston, S.J.,
appeared in The Month for June 1927 ; from this report, which
is founded on a series of articles by Universitats-dozent Dr.
John HoUnsteiner, contributed to Die Pforte of Nuremberg, we
quote the following extract, giving the early history of the
case
:
Down to the time of the war [Theresa Neumann] is said to have
been strong and healthy, and in the spring of 1918 she was doing
heavy field work as a farm hand. At that date a fire accidentally
broke out in the homestead where she was employed, and to pre-
vent this from spreading every available recruit was called upon
to form a chain and pass buckets of water from hand to hand to
24)8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May, 1928
pour upon the threatened out-buildings. As a result of three
hours spent in this strenuous exertion Theresa collapsed, sufiering
intense pain in the lumbar region. She did not at once resign
herself to the life of an invalid. On the contrary she struggled
on with her work till the autumn, doing odd jobs about the farm,
but another severe strain, incurred at this time, brought on an
attack of paralysis, or at any rate something of that nature, which
made her a permanent cripple and confined her to her bed. In
1919 an affection of the eyes supervened and she lost her sight.
. . . She did not pray for the restoration of her health, but on
April 29, 1923, the day of the beatification of Sceur Therese of
Lisieux, whom she had always honoured with a simple childlike
devotion, her sight was quite unexpectedly given back to her.
However, she still remained bedridden and a cripple. Two years
later, on the day of the canonization of the same holy Carmelite
(May 17, 1925), as she seemed to be passing through some strange
crisis, the parish priest, her confessor, was called to her. He
found her entranced, her eyes immovably fixed upon vacancy, her
hands outstretched, her face radiant. A few minutes later she
suddenly sat up in bed, a thing which for six years had been
quite beyond her power. She stated positively that she would
now be able to stand and walk, and her mother found that her
left leg which had so long been doubled up under her had become
normal and was now extended like the other.
After this there was for some months a general improvement
in the girl's condition, although in November 1925 " an acute
attack of appendicitis was diagnosed which rendered it impera-
tively necessary to operate that same evening." Of this she
seems to have been cured in a few hours in response to prayer,
and the doctor was " able to satisfy himself that all trace of
inflammation had disappeared."
The characteristic phenomena of stigmatisation did not occur
until shortly after Shrove Tuesday 1926, when " blood began
to run from both eyes." Father Thurston notes
the rather curious coincidence that for some little time before
this the case of Elena Ajello, which was being studied patho-
logically by Professor Bianchi of the Naples University, had been
much discussed in the Catholic newspapers. Tears of blood formed
one of the most striking features in the ecstasies of Elena, and
Mat, 1928 The Case of Theresa Neumann 249
while we have no thought of hinting that Theresa was fraudu-
lently, or in any way consciously, imitating the Italian ecstatica,
the whole subject of suggestion is so mysterious and the action of
mind on body has been as yet so imperfectly investigated, that
we cannot exclude the possibility of some influence from this
source. Before Passion Sunday, without any assignable cause,
there appeared on the left breast, in the region of the heart, a
wound which at times bled profusely but did not suppurate. But
it was only on Good Friday itself that the climax was reached.
On that day she became a spectator, as it were in a vision, of
all the scenes of our Lord's Passion, and, like so many other
stigmatics, enacted them in some sense in her own person, suffering
at three o'clock the very pangs of the death agony. Besides this
she felt cruel pains in her hands and feet, and since that time
hands and feet have been marked with traces of wounds, normally
covered with a brownish scab, but in certain weeks in which she
passes into ecstasy on the Friday, opening and discharging clear
arterial blood.
In December 1926 Dr. Hollnsteiner witnessed the phenomena
of ecstasy, and his account of them is given by Father Thurston.
Since that time the case has taken on another remarkable
feature in the shape of a long period of almost complete
fasting. Numerous references to this development will be foimd
in the various foreign publications quoted or described below.
1. In the Vossische Zeitung (morning edition, August 17, 18, 19,
1927) are three articles on Theresa Neumann by Dr. Wolfgang
von Weisl. Dr. von Weisl observed Theresa personally and at
length on one afternoon only, but he had the opportunity of dis-
cussing the case with other persons who had observed it from the
beginning. He personally examined the wounds on the hands,
which gave him truly the impression of having been produced by
nails. Dr. von Weisl concludes his articles by proclaiming his
belief that conscious imposture is out of the question. He also
repudiates the explanation of the case by hysteria and admits the
genuineness of the stigmata, due in his opinion to the human will,
strengthened by a three years' illness, dominating the body
(souverdne Beherrschung)
.
The real difficulty in the case begins for Dr. von Weisl with the
250 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mat, 1928
alleged fact that Theresa Neumann does not seem to have absorbed
any food for about seven months. For fourteen days she was
closely watched in this respect by four Sisters of Mercy, whose
conclusions were favourable to her claims. Still Dr. von Weisl is
inclined to think that the girl takes some food at night in a
somnambulistic state, and recommends that in order to test this
hypothesis, she should be transferred to a clinic, where she could
be effectively controlled. (The Germania, the leading German
Roman Catholic organ, makes the same recommendation as Dr.
von Weisl. See an article on September 17, 1927, by Dr. Wun-
derle of Wiirzburg.)
2. The Frankfurter Zeitung for September 8, 1927, has an article
on the case by Herr Karl Wurzberger. This article, however, adds
little to what has already been noted, and it need only be said
that Herr Wurzberger accepts the genuineness of the stigmatisation
and regards the alleged fasting as the most remarkable feature of
the case.
3. In the Kdlnische Zeitung of September 13, 1927, Dr. Rolf
Reissmann has an article on " The Konnersreuth Occurrences," in
which he asserts the genuineness of the phenomena, in particular
of the stigmatisation. He gives an account of the ecstasies which,
he admits, produce a deep impression even on those familiar with
intense pathological cases. He finds the explanation of the pheno-
mena in auto-hypnosis conditioned by the religious surroundings of
Theresa Neumann's existence. In this connexion Dr. Reissmann
mentions the extraordinary precision with which the ecstasies begin,
also some muscular contractions common both to Theresa Neumann
and to hypnotic subjects. He refers to the researches of Roth as
proving that in the case of women when certain regular physio-
logical processes are violently disturbed (which has been the case
now with Theresa for some years), other bleedings begin regularly
to take place.
Dr. Reissmann then discusses some aspects of the visions seen
by Theresa in her ecstasies, which to him are evidence of their
not being connected with the traditional teaching of the Catholic
Church, e.g. the fork-shaped form of Christ's cross. He points-
out the similarity existing on this point, as well as others, between
Theresa's visions and those of Catherine Emmerich, and suggests
as an explanation telepathy, Theresa tapping some mind in her
entourage to whom Catherine's visions are familiar. The same
May, 1928 TJie Case of Theresa Neumann 251
theory is postulated to explain the Aramaic words pronounced by
Theresa in the presence of Dr. AVutz.
Theresa's fasts—to him the most interesting fact in the whole
case from the scientific point of view—Dr. Reissmann declines to
discuss, though obviously inclining to admit their authenticity.
He concludes by recommending that Theresa should be transferred
to a convent where her case could be studied at leisure by a
Commission including both Roman Catholic and official men of
science.
4. The Oberhirtliche Verordnungsblatt fur die Diozese Regensburg
(Nov. 10, 1927) prints an official statement, dated October 4th,
Avhich certifies that the ecclesiastical enquiry into the Neumann
case is " quietly and firmly going on." It states that Theresa
was closely watched day and night for fifteen days by four nuns,
who had been sworn in and then specially instructed for two days
by Dr. Seidl of Walsassen. Two nuns had Theresa under constant
observation ; she was regularly weighed ; various researches of a
medical and chemical character were also made. It was ascer-
tained that Theresa had not taken any food at all during the
period in question (except the Host and a small quantity of water
to enable her to swallow it). The official statement records as a
peculiarly enigmatic fact that in spite of this complete fast two
considerable decreases in weight were followed by approximately
corresponding increases. At the end of the period of observation
the Franciscan nuns were sv.'orn in again. Theresa did not keep
her bed during this period.
Dr. Seidl came to Konnersreuth nine times during the fifteen
days, two of these visits taking place unexpectedly at night.
Professor Ewald of Erlangen [see below] also attended occasionally.
The Bavarian Catholic clergy are authorised by the Bishopric of
Regensburg to make such use of this statement as they think fit.
One of the most important and comprehensive statements of
the case which has yet appeared is by Dr. G. Ewald, professor
of psychiatry at Erlangen, to whom reference is made above.
A copy of this report, which appeared originally in the Mmichner
Medizinische Wochenschrift, has been published in pamphlet form
under the title Die Stigmatisierte von Konnersreuth (J. F. Lehmarm,
Munich), and may be seen in the S.P.R. Library. We print
below a short abstract of some parts of it.
252 Journal 0/ Society for Psychical Research Mat, 1928
5. Dr. Ewald gives a detailed account of the stigmata, and also
of the ecstasy, as he himself witnessed it on July 29th, 1927.
He describes it as an " impressive spectacle," even to the eyes of
a critical doctor. As to his general opinion of the case he refers
to it as one of " clearly defined, unusually severe Unfallhysterie."
From 1920 to 1925 the girl remained without medical attendance
under the exclusive care of her parents and the village priest.
Her thoughts became thus concentrated on religious subjects. On
April 29th, 1923, Theresa was suddenly cured of her hysterical
blindness ; on May 17th, 1925, she had a vision of *S'/. Therese de
Lisieux or de I'Enfant Jesus, canonised on that day, and was cured
of her paralysis. In November 1925 she fell dangerously ill with
inflammation of the caecum, but almost on the eve of the operation
was again suddenly cured, the abscess ('" Douglas abscess ") unex-
pectedly bursting. In all this Dr. Ewald sees nothing miraculous.
The origin of the stigmata he considers to be of a " clearly
psychogenic nature, and to be sought in particularly intense auto-
suggestion." He admits that nothing like genuine stigmatisation
has ever been produced by hypnotic and experimental suggestion,
but points out that " experiences experimentally induced from
without are always inferior to a genuine inner experience in in-
tensity and power of efEect."
He then comes to what he considers the crux of the whole
matter. Theresa claims not to have taken solid food since
December 25, 1922, and not even to have taken any liquid, except
a very small quantity of water to enable her to swallow the Host,
between December 23, 1926, and July 1927, when she was put
under special observation for a fortnight, that is to say, during a
period of seven months. This claim Dr. Ewald regards as quite
incomprehensible (scJilechterdings unbegreiflich) for medical reasons
which he gives. With regard to the special period of observation
Dr. Ewald speaks very highly of the scrupulous care with which
the four nuns discharged their duties, and analyses the results
obtained in detail. He detects no flaw in the investigation, and
admits that nothing suspicious was observed in the course of it ;
he still, however, maintains a sceptical attitude for the following
reason : twice during the period of observation Theresa lost weight
and twice recovered this loss.^ Such increases of weight, says
^ The losses were of about 8 lbs. and 3 lbs. respectively during the times when
she experienced ecstasy ; the corresponding gains about 6 lbs. and 5 lbs.
Mat, 1928 The Case of Theresa Neumann 253
Dr. Ewald, are inexplicable (" denn aus tiichts wird nichts "), and
he therefore concludes by urging strongly that Theresa should be
put under observation in a clinic, where her case could be in-
vestigated without bias of any kind.
6. In the Frankfurter Zeitung of November 25 and 26, 1927,
there is a report on Theresa Neumann by Dr. Richard Stephan,
Ghef-Artz der Medizinischen Klinik des St. Marienkrankenhaus.
Dr. Stephan accepts the authenticity of the phenomena and speaks
highly of the facilities for enquiry which were allowed him. He
says that the Regensburg Bishopric did all it could to have the
case investigated in a clinic and that Theresa and her parents
had—though reluctantly—given their consent, but withdrew it
' owing to the awkwardness of a young physician." He appar-
ently accepts the phenomenon of fasting not only during the con-
trolled period, but for a time before and after this, for he refers
to "a complete cessation in the taking of food and drink for a
period of nearly twelve months." He does not, however, see
anything miraculous, even in such a fact. The Konnersreuth
phenomena offer to biology, he says, facts unknown only from the
quantitative, not the qualitative point of view. The marvel of
the human organism is only extended in an extraordinary way.
The domain of the supernatural " which many seek and no one
finds " has not been reached at Konnersreuth. The real expla-
nation of the riddle seems to Herr Stephan to lie in the com-
bination of childlike simplicity beyond the normal on the one
hand, and on the other an intensity of faith unexampled for
decades.
(As Count Solovovo points out in commenting on this article
" a scientist who admits as authentic a case in which a human
being absorbs no food for a year, and yet sees in this only a
quantitative, not qualitative, extension of our knowledge of the
human organism, whilst flatly rejecting a supernatural or spiritistic
explanation, could hardly be brought to believe in any miracle
whatsoever.")
No further startling developments appear to have occurred in
Theresa Neumann's case up to the present time ; the usual
phenomena of ecstasy and stigmatisation were observed in
Passion Week of this year.
254 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May, 1928
BIBLIOGRAPHY.
The following list of the more important pamphlets and articles
dealing with the case has been sent to us by Herr Willy K.
Jaschke, of the Parapsychological Laboratory, Munich.
Angerer, Albert :
" Das Phanomen von Konnersreuth," Wald-
sassen, 1927. 90 pp.
Bunzen, Dr. L. van :
" Wunder und Ratsel der Stigmatisation,"'
PfuUingen. 28 pp.
Diisseldorfer Tagblatt :
" Das Eatsel von Konnersreuth,"
Diisseldorf, 1927. 104 pp.
Ewald, Dr. Gr. :
" Die Stigmatisierte von Konnersreuth,"
Sonderabdruck aus der Miinchner Medizinischen Wochen-
schrift, Miinchen, 1927. 49 pp.
Fink, Pfarrer Joh. :
" Eine Fahrt nach Konnersreuth," Ludwigs-
hafen, 1927. 63 pp.
Geiger, Th. :
" Die Stigmatisierte von Konnersreuth, Ab-
wehrgedanken zu den Gutachten von Dr. med. Weisl,
Berlin, und Prof. Dr. med. Ewald, Brlangen." Sonder-
abdruck aus der " Miinchner Kath. Kirchenzeitung."
Georg, Fritz :
" Das Wunder von Konnersreuth," Dessau,
1927. 58 pp.
Kroner, Dr. med. Walter :
" Das Ratsel von Konnersreuth,"
Miinchen, 1927. 91 pp.
Lama, Friedrich Ritter von :
" Therese Neumann von Konners-
reuth, eine Stigmatisierte unserer Zeit," Bonn, 1928.
Ill pp.
Leiber, Pater Robert, S.J. :
" Konnersreuth, Tatsachen und
Grundsatze," Freiburg im Breisgau, 1927. 46 pp.
Lemke, Dr. H. :
" Die Stigmatisierte von Konnersreuth,"
Berlin, 1927. 32 pp.
Mayr, Dr. Martin :
" Das Ratsel von Konnersreuth," Miinchen,
1927. 45 pp.
Messmer, Pralat Joh. :
" Die stigmatisierte Seherin Therese
Neumann," Luzern und Leipzig, 1927. 51 pp.
Natoneck, Hans :
" Heilige, Kranke oder Schwindlerin ?
"
Leipzig, 1927. 52 pp.
Niessen, Dr. theol. Joh. :
" Therese Neumann, Natur oder
tibernatur ?
" Krefeld, 1927. 64 pp.
Priller, Georg :
" Konnersreuth ein Weltratsel," Tirschenreuth,
1927. 40 pp.
Salzmann, A. M. :
" Therese Neumann, die Stigmatisierte von
Konnersreuth," Dessau, 1927. 79 pp.
Mat, 1928 The Case of Theresa Neumann 255
Simon, Matthias : " Das Phanomen von Konnersreuth im
Lichte evangelischen Glaubens," Leipzig, 1927. 47 pp.
Schmid, Frenzold : Die Wahrheit iiber das Wunder von
Konnersreuth," Berlin-Leipzig-Wien, 1927. 24 pp.
Tiirk, Pfarrer : " Geschehen heutzutage noch Wunder ?
"
Schwabach, 1927. 15 pp.
Vaseli, Ima : " Die Seherin von Konnersreuth," Pasing, 1927.
48 pp.
Witt, L. :
" Konnersreuth im Lichte der Religion und Wissen-
schaft," Waldsassen, 1927. 317 pp.
Wunderle, Dr. Georg :
" Die Stigmatisierte von Konners-
reuth," Eichstatt, 1927. 80 pp.
SOME QUESTIONABLE EXPERIMENTS IN TELEPATHY.
In a review of Mr. J. Sinel's book, The Sixth Setise, in the
Journal for November, 1927, I pointed out that his theory of the
function of the pineal gland as an organ for receiving telepathic
communications rested very largely on a number of remarkable
experiments which Mr. Sinel conducted some fifteen years ago, but
that he had produced no corroboration for his interpretation. I
also stated that Professor McDougall and I had gone over to
Jersey to witness these experiments in April, 1914, but had found
ourselves quite unable to endorse them, because Mr. Sinel's
methods were so careless that they permitted to the sensitive
normal perception of the pictures with which she was supposed to
be impressed telepathically. I was aware that my review was
damaging to Mr. Sinel's claims, but as I had informed him at the
time of the explanation we had adopted, and he had attempted
no reply, I did not think he would contest it now.
Neither has he sent any protest to the Journal, in which my
review appeared. But quite a little controversy has arisen about
his book in the Literary Guide, which is, I believe, the organ of
the Rationalist Press Association. Mr Sinel's book was sponsored
by Dr. Macleod Yearsley, a constant contributor to the Literary
Guide, and was very favourably reviewed in the October Number.
In the January Number there appeared a very temperately worded
letter from Dr. Ivor Tuckett drawing attention to my adverse
review of The Sixth Sense and quoting relevant extracts. In the
February Number the Editor apologized to Messrs. Sinel and
256 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mat, 19^8
Yearsley for publishing this letter. In the March Number he
published extracts from a longer document sent in by Sinel, in
which he alleges that I was present at some very astounding
successes of his sensitive in April, 1914. I at once wrote a brief
but complete disavowal of Mr. Sinel's recollections ; but the Editor
has refused to publish it.
In order therefore that Mr. Sinel's experiments, endorsed as they
seem to be in high Rationalist quarters, may not delude the un-
wary, it seems necessary to state that my memory was totally
blank as to happenings of the sort Mr. Sinel now describes, and
that it is quite incredible that if they had occurred, we should
not have been eager to go on with the investigation of his sensi-
tive. Still it seemed possible that as the human memory is pro-
verbially fallible, mine might be as destructive of what had
happened as his seemed to be creative of what hadn't ; so I
obtained from the archives of the Society the contemporaneous
Report on the case, dated 19th April, 1914, which I had sent to
Mrs. Sidgwick. There I found no mention whatever of most of
Mr. Sinel's successes ; the one exception was an experiment with
three Greek letters to which, according to Mr. Sinel, " the reply
was exact." But my account of this was that " nothing was
produced that the girl could not have seen, owing to the way he
[Mr. Sinel] held the pictures, except some Greek letters (inter-
preted as a scrawl) which I believe to have been an inference
from the motions of my pencil." I had previously remarked that
the girl was " as sharp as a needle, noticing everything and draw-
ing clever inferences from the movements of the pencil in writing,"
and explained in this way a subsequent partial success at
my last sitting, when I had to turn my back upon the lady, in
order to draw a diagram. It is clear, therefore, that even at the
time the impression left on my mind was practically total failure.
And it is obvious that even the best reproductions of pictures
prove nothing, if the medium is allowed to see the originals.
F. C. S. Schiller.
May, 1928 Correspondence 257
CORRESPONDENCE
Concerning the Annual General Meeting.
To the Editor of The Journal of the S.P.R.
March 11 , 1928.
Madam,—In the account of the recent Annual General Meeting,
published in the Journal for March, 1928, I see that two words
expressly inserted in one of my questions at that meeting have
been omitted in the published version (p. 212).
My second question was, " How many physical mediums had
been visited or investigated by the Hon. Officers during 1927 ?
"
By the omission of the words " or visited," the fact that no
attempt whatever was made to discover if any physical mediums
were worth investigating was suppressed. Now since from March,
1927, until January, 1928, the Hon. Research Officer has had the
fullest and freest opportunity to carry out his own policy, and that
policy is, according to his own statement at the General Meeting,
to do nothing, may it not possibly explain the curious position of
research during my last year's tenure of office in 1926, when as
he truly stated at the meeting, no physical mediums were in-
vestigated ?
Finally, lest it be thought that my own inactivity, which to
those who know me appeared so inexplicable, was carried over to
my private enquiries, may I add that in that period, when under
the control of Dr. V. J. WooUey, no physical mediums were in-
vestigated by the Society, I had Willi Schneider staying in my
house for seven weeks ; visited Braunau during my annual vacation
in order to see Rudi Schneider, and, in company with persons
keener on research than the Society's Hon. Officers, obtained a
sitting with a remarkable medium in London, whose exploits
have been the subject of a considerable literature.
E. J. Dingwall.
Reply by Dr. V. J. Woolley.
From the shorthand notes of the meeting it appears that both
Mr. Dingwall and the Editor are slightly in error. He actually
used only the word " visited " with no mention of investigation.
The point, however, does not seem very important, because even
Mr. Dingwall would hardly contend that the Honorary Officers
should spend their time and the Society's funds in visiting mediums
258 Journal of Society Jar Psychical Research May, 1928
unless some sort of investigation, however perfunctory and in-
adequate, was at least aimed at.
No statement that I made at the meeting could possibly be
interpreted as a statement of a policy of doing nothing, and I
think that Mr. Dingwall must have misunderstood me on this
point. I said that I did not consider it proper to use the
Society's funds in paying for occasional sittings in mixed circles
with the ordinary professional physical mediums, because such
sittings would almost certainly be fruitless. To the best of my
recollection Mr. Dingwall, in all the time that I had the pleasure
of working with him, never named one physical medium that he
thought one of us should visit in such a way. If he had ex-
pressed a wish to visit one I am perfectly certain that neither I
nor any other officer of the Society would have discouraged him
on financial or any other grounds.
My recollection on this point is I think borne out by the last
paragraph of his letter. His own " private enquiries " did not
include such visits as he thinks the Society's oflicers should make.
When he has to consider how to spend his own time and money
to the best advantage, he entertains one remarkable medium for
seven weeks, he visits another in Austria for several sittings, and
only attends one sitting in London, and that one (if I have guessed
his medium correctly) only after receiving a preliminary report
which made him consider it worth his while to go.
In his own private enquiries he has followed exactly and pre-
cisely the policy which he so blames the Society's officers for
adopting, the policy of spending comparatively large sums on a
few noted mediums rather than of scattering odd guineas among
the advertisers. The only difference lies in the fact that the
reports of the Society's work are available for students either at
the office or in our publications, while Mr. Dingwall's results, if
any, are not.
V. J. WOOLLEY.
REVIEWS.
I. Charles Richet, Membre de I'lnstitut, Notre sixieme sens^
Editions Montaigne, Paris. 253 pp.
In this little book, from which the usual charm of its author,
the octogenarian Professor Richet, irradiates, an attempt is made-
May, 1928 Reviews 259
to present in a popular form the evidence for what the author
calls the sixth sense. Under this term he includes what is gener-
ally known under the names of telepathy, thought-transference,
clairvoyance and psychometry (a term which he rightly stigmatises
as " detestable "
[p. 113]). He does not discuss premonitions.
An imposing array of facts is marshalled by Professor Richet
in order to prove his thesis, facts both spontaneous and experi-
mental. Many of these are known already to members of the
S.P.R., from whose most valuable records the author abundantly
borrows ; others are comparatively unknown or forgotten. To one
of the two latter categories belong, e.g., the experiments conducted
by Professor Richet with Stella in the presence of a young
friend of his whom he calls Martin,"" experiments which seem
strongly to tell in favour of telepathy from the latter (pp. 84-86) ;
his experiments with the hidden alphabet "'
(pp. 92-94) ; and the
very curious experiments made by MM. Heymans, Brugmans
and Weinberg in the psychological laboratory of the University of
Groningen with a young student called Vandam (pp. 153-156).
M. Richet rightly says he does not quite understand why the
latter have been so little mentioned, and undoubtedly no less
rightly suggests that this omission is due to the very scientific
character of the trials in question (p. 153).
Of much interest is the chapter devoted to the author's own
experiments with Ludwig Kahn (pp. 178-192). I know what may
be urged against them. I confess that the results look suspicious
both on account of Ludwig Kahn's antecedents and because of the
very exactness with which the contents of the pellets are read.
We are not used to such exactness and accuracy in results
obtained through "second sight"! Another suspicious circumstance
is the close similarity which exists between the performances of
Ludwig Kahn and those of Bert Reese (to whom, it is true.
Professor Richet also thinks it worth while to devote a chapter,
doing him, in my humble opinion, too much honour) ; and again
another is the multitude of the pellets used. What happens to
one pellet only may probably be easily watched ; this watching
becomes singularly complicated when there are four. Of this the
author involuntarily affords us a proof on p. 181 : he says he
wrote four pellets, but gives us the whereabouts of only three
of them. Nor is the evidence in this clairvoyant's favour much
enhanced by the account of his successful performances before
260 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May, 1928
M. Maurain, the Paris Prefect of Police, given on the testimony
of Ludwig Kahn himself (p. 188). And yet the categorical
character of Professor Richet's statements in favour of the
latter's genuineness impresses me. I urge that here is a prima
facie case for investigation, and I hope this clairvoyant (in whose
performances there is at least no room for that tiresome explanation,
chance coincidence) may be tested before long under crucial test
conditions.
Whilst willing to admit telepathy, Professor Richet prefers to
postulate as an explanation of most cases of supernormal know-
ledge vibrations du reel or vibrations de la realite. In such a case,
e.g., as that of Mrs. Green, who, in London, sees her niece. Miss
Allen, being drowned in Australia, he thinks it more probable
that a scene taking place at the Antipodes should impress
Mrs. Green's brain " tout comme une onde hertzienne emise de
Sydney va se transmettre a un recepteur T. S. F. de Londres " ;
and prefers such an explanation to that of Miss Allen's thought
making " le tour de la terre pour aller frapper a Londres le cerveau
de Mrs. Green" (p. 219).
Professor Richet would prefer to explain by thought-transference
only those cases where an internal thought, an internal act of
will are transmitted, not manifesting themselves by any external
gesture (p. 221). He mentions in this connection some experi-
ments of Dr. Ochorowicz's. It may be doubted, however, whether
these cannot be explained by unconscious whispering, coupled
perhaps with hyperaesthesia in the sensitive. Professor Richet
does not favour, it is true, the hypothesis of an enormously
intensified hyperaesthesia (p. 230 ; such as that suggested by
Dr. R. Baerwald, I may add) ; but he is willing to postulate
hyperacuity of audition to explain the telepathic experiments of
Professor Gilbert Murray (p. 200) : in both cases rightly, I think.
The chapter of Professor Richet's book devoted to Mrs. Piper
suggests the following remark. I do not think that the system
of condensing into a few lines the results obtained by the sitters
at a seance with a trance medium is likely to give us a faithful
picture of what occurred, any more than if the same method
were applied, e.g., to a slate-writing seance. An instance of the
misleading character of this method is afforded us on p. 148. It
is not true that the surname " Rodney " given by " Uncle
Jerry " to Sir Oliver Lodge as that of a boy thrashed by Uncle
Mat, 1928 Reviews 261
Jerry's brother Frank was subsequently ascertained to be the true
surname of the boy. As for the thrashing itself—well, such un-
fortunate incidents are so common in the lives of at least ninety
out of ninety-one human boys that I for my part decline to
attach to such " tests " any evidential importance.
The way in which Professor Richet condenses " the late
Professor Hyslop's experiences with the Boston medium further
exemplifies what I say. In the few lines he devotes to them
mention is made of various incidents which may—or must—
•
appear striking to the uninitiated reader (p. 151). As a matter of
fact, I entirely agree with the late Mr. Podmore that neither the
spirit hypothesis nor telepathy are required to explain the Hyslop
records.
It is characteristic of Professor Richet's attitude that he does-
not say one word in Notre sixieme sens on the whole subject of
cross-correspondences, as if the latter were entirely non-existent.
These cursory remarks—and in particular the last one—are cer-
tainly not intended to detract anything from the value of a
fascinating book by one of the fathers of modern " metapsychics,"'
whom we all respect and admire.
P.—P.—S.
II. Die Problems des Mediumismus. By Prof. Dr. J. M. Verweyen^
Stuttgart, F. Enhe. Pp. 224.
Since the War German professors have evinced a growing interest
in Psychical Research, and among them the philosophers have been
conspicuously active. To Prof. Oesterreich of Tubingen and Prof.
Messer of Giessen, Prof. Verweyen of Bonn must now be added
as a contributor to the literature of Psychical Research. His
work shows good knowledge of the extant evidence, a com-
prehensive view of the theoretic problems involved, with a full
appreciation of the alternative interpretations, and a sound critical
attitude, which comes out specially in the distinction he makes
between being personally convinced by an experience (Erlebnis) and
understanding it as a part of scientific knowledge (Erkenntnis).
In his very interesting and candid final chapter on his own ex-
periences describing sittings with Willy Schneider, Frau Silbert,
Eleonora Zugun and others, he admits that his experiences have
impressed and convinced him and hopes that they will pave the
way to scientific knowledge. At the same time there are indi-
262 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mat. 1928
cations in his book that he is perhaps somewhat easy to impress.
For he considers that " spirit-photography has raised the objec-
tive reality of " teleplasm " above all reasonable doubt (p. 120),
thinks that modern astrology deserves to be called an empirical,
scientific study (p. 58), though he sees the difficulty of accounting
for the genesis of its doctrines in this fashion, and approves of
the dangerous argument that the detection of fraud need not shake
the belief of those who have already convinced themselves of the
existence of genuine mediums (p. 40). I call this argument
" dangerous," because there is always a possibility that there was
an undetected flaw in the evidence which seemed convincing at
the time, and the subsequent detection of fraud may render this
probable or even certain, while the memory of the past experience,
very naturally, resists correction. It is important therefore to
uphold the principle of scientific method that every case of scien-
tific " fact " is for ever open to revision, alike whether this tells
for or against the alleged facts. No scientific hypothesis either
proves or maintains itself save by continuing to be the best ex-
planation in the field. Lastly, it should be pointed out to Prof.
Verweyen, as a case in point, that it is not now safe to base any
argument for the reality of physical phenomena on Crawford's
accounts of Kathleen Goligher (cf. p. 38, 109-10). Dr. Four-
nier d'Albe's exposure was rendered crushing, not so much by
his own observations, as by the way in which the Goligher family
accepted it.
F. C. S. Schiller.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Dr. R. Tischner has kindly sent me a copy of Number 1/2 of
his attractive periodical Der OkkuUismus, now, alas, defunct. On
p. 26 we see the photographic reproduction of one of the
Zollner " knots obtained with the late Russian medium Sambor.
The seance in question took place at Riga on Sept. 20, 1896.
Dr. Tischner, in whose possession the mysterious knot—or rather
Icnots : there are two of them on the string—now is, reproduces
part of the account by Frau Margarete Ehmke, in whose house
the sitting took place, from the Psyehiche Studien of 1904. As
described, the phenomenon is almost inexplicable by conjuring.
Four persons are present, including the medium ; a candle is
Mat, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 263
burning ; the medium's hands are held (throughout 1) —I may men-
tion that Sambor's hands were as a rule held quite satisfactorily—
;
the first knot is tied then and there, the visiting card, to which
the ends of the string had been fastened with sealing wax, visibly
moving under the eyes of the sitters ; the second knot is formed
after the visiting card and string have been taken by Frau Ehmke
into another room and placed there in a small toilet case. Sub-
stitution seems difficult because six persons (of whom some at
least were physicians) had written their names upon the card, and
also because Frau Ehmke had impressed on the sealing wax a
seal with her coat-of-arms. I may mention that this case of
" Zollner " knots with the late Russian medium is not unique.
Of course such accounts as Frau Ehmke's cannot carry conviction^
and the whole case for the "Zollner" knots is made almost hope-
less by the most suspicious reputation of their initiator—Henry
Slade. Still, after reading Frau Ehmke's narrative, I can only repeat
that if there is a physical medium who is entitled to be acknow-
ledged as genuine (should the authenticity of the physical pheno-
mena be ever admitted) it is surely the late, much-lamented by
me at the time, Stepan-Fomitch Sambor.
In Zeitschrift fiir Psychische Forschung for January Dr. E.
Mattiesen pursues his examination of trance-phenomena and Pro-
fessor Dr. Christoph Schroder his description of Frau Rudlofi's
Phdnomenik. The protocols embrace this time the period from the
3rd of October, 1926, to the 9th of April, 1927. The character of
the incidents is the same as before ; it is spontaneous or at least
semi-spontaneous, thus by no means calculated to make observation
easier. Herr J. Macourek's account deals with recent experiences
with Frau M. Silbert : I will refer to it when it is finished.
It is very satisfactory to see that the " Institute for Meta-
psychical Research " of Berlin-Lichterfelde-Ost makes an urgent
appeal through Professor Schroder to the readers of the Zeitschrift
for accounts of " metapsychical experiences." One such account is
already printed, and it makes a praiseworthy attempt to make
the evidence satisfactory. We much hope that the appeal will be
listened to and that something may be done in Germany to save
from oblivion at least a small part of those spontaneous cases
from which we have so much to learn.
Meanwhile Hofrat Prof. Max Selling prints a series of incidents
from his own experience. One relating to a veridical dream ex-
264 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May, 1928
perienced by a gentleman who did not know him personally at
the time, but who noted at once in his note-book that on May
19th he would have a talk with Hofrat Selling about his leaving
the Theosophical Society (which dream came true !) is very be-
wildering indeed. My attention has been chiefly arrested however
by another case in which a Frau Fordan relates to Herr Selling
how her step-brother appeared to her several months after his
violent death. In this case it is particularly interesting that Frau
Fordan saw on " Hubert's " body various marks which appeared
there—unknown to her—only after his death (his wife rubbing the
body much in the region of the heart, etc.). We are irresistibly
reminded of a case printed in our Proceedings many years ago
(vol. vi, p. 17) where a dead sister appears to her brother with a
scratch on her face, which scratch had been involuntarily produced
by the mother after the dead girl's body had been laid into the
coffin. In such cases telepathy from the living, not from the
dead, is obviously suggested as an explanation—at first sight at
least. The Seiling-Fordan case is however very remote (December
1899) and given us at second-hand.
Revue Spirite Beige, January and February, 1928.
In the January number the text of a lecture delivered by
M. Fourie, a painter, at Baroness de Watteville's is published, the
lecture describing the " materialisations " at Mantes-sur-Seine
(Journal S.P.R., October 1927, p. 125). M. Fourie is very cate-
gorical on the subject and claims to have recognised the form of
his son. The testimony of a M. Melusson is given, who says he
saw the medium and the apparition simultaneously, and the ques-
tion of fraud is to some extent discussed.
In the February number M. J. Thiebault (cf. Journal S.P.R.,
ibidem, p. 126) has a paper on the same subject. Even a super-
ficial reading reveals suspicious circumstances, e.g. when M. Thie-
bault mentions that " Madeleine " has her lips covered with a
cordon blanchdtre and speaks of her masculine appearance. He
admits that there are too many sitters (M. Fourie speaks of 18-25)
and mentions that the head of the alleged son of M. Fourie was
never seen. The most curious feature at these seances is the
double recognition : of " Madeleine " by her parents, and of
" Daniel " (Fourie) by his father. In this connection, however, I
would refer to the present Italian Canella-Bruneri case which clearly
shows, I think, that extraordinary and persistent mistakes in
May, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 265
recognition are liable to occur, not only in the darkness or semi-
darkness of the seance room, but even in everyday life. From
this point of view this Italian imbroglio seems to me peculiarly
instructive.
Revue Metapsychique. January-February, 1928.
Dr. Osty prints a second instalment of his paper on the " Border-
land of Classical Psychology and Metapsychical Psychology." This
time the case of M. Augustin Lesage is dealt with, a miner, born
in the Pas-de-Calais Department in 1876, who paints without ever
having learned painting, which fact is attested inter alia by a
certificate delivered by the Mayor of Burbure, where M. Lesage
lives. Hitherto fifty paintings have been produced, of which
numerous reproductions (one coloured) are given. Dr. Osty admits
that the first picture only (all are of an ornamental character) has
to be accounted for : all the others can be explained by " the
acquired technique." He sums up the problem as follows :
" A miner, without any artistic heredity which could be de-
tected, who up to the age of 35 lived in surroundings devoid of
every artistic stimulus, believes himself under the suggestion of
certain incidents to have been chosen by a '
spirit ' to be that
spirit's living instrument of painting. After having made four
drawings with pencil and covered with paint four pieces of paper,
he scatters over nine metres of cloth a great diversity of beautiful
decorative subjects, of which the execution presupposes good know-
ledge of drawings and of colours as well as of the use of the
brush ; also rich power of invention in an ornamental genre
apparently archaic and not imitated" (p. 31).
M. Lesage believes himself to paint under spirit-influence ; at
first his sister Marie, then Leonardo da Vinci, then Marius de
Tyane (unknown : Apollonius of Tyane was a well-known miracle-
monger of the first century a.d.).
An experiment in painting in the dark has. Dr. Osty tells us,
failed completely.
M. Robert Desoille, an engineer, prints a valuable contribution
to the study of the psychological effects of peyotl from personal
experience. Various aspects of the problem are described and dis-
cussed, among others the effect of auto-suggestion and " hetero-
suggestion." The connection of the whole subject with our re-
searches is, however, slender.
266 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May, 1928
Prof. Charles Richet prints two fascinating pages a propos of
Karl Th. Bayer's Grundprobleme der Astrologie and concludes
:
" No, astrology is no science."
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie. March 1928.
The translation^ of Mr. Dingwall's report on " Margery " is
brought to an end. It is followed by Mr. Malcolm Bird's " Present
position of the Margery mediumship " (British Journal of Psychical
Research, November 1927).
Dr. Arthur Kronfeld brings to a close his discussion of the
^'
Value and Problematik of Mysticism."
Two papers follow dealing with Dr. Rosenbusch's accusation of
Countess Wassilko-Serecki of connivance at Eleonore Zugun's alleged
frauds. The first informs us that two Munich courts of law have
in succession declined to take into account the complaint lodged
by the Countess against her accuser. From the judicial stand-
point the matter must be regarded as erJedigt. Thereupon the
Countess takes up herself the pen and defends herself on some
twenty pages in a very matter-of-fact, energetic, and spirited way.
This plaidoyer certainly deserves attention. We are promised
further and apparently more or less convincing evidence re the
E. Z. alleged mediumship in the next number of the Zeitschrift.
Meanwhile we note with satisfaction that the Countess is by no
means such a " defenceless woman " as stated in the same review
somewhere last year.
In Kleine Mitteilungen Professor Dr. Ludwig calls attention to
an article published in 1926 in a German missionary organ, Stern
der Neiden, in which a certain Brother Wollseifer gives evidence as
to telepathic and clairvoyant powers possessed by Australian
aborigines. This is of course very possible, though prudence in
drawing positive conclusions in this respect seems to me to be
especially desirable in view of what I will call the Central African
(and in particular the Congo) precedent. In the latter case it is
evident that the natives have at their disposal a wonderful system
of signalisation which seems to me to deal a fatal blow to all
supernormal claims. General Lettow-Vorbeck, the defender during
the world-war of ex-German East Africa, relates that he was in-
formed—most obviously in this way—of the approach of a German
dirigible, which had; however, to turn back before reaching him.
(Cf. Kfiln. Zeit. Ap. 24, 1928, 225°.)
* By Mr. G. C. Wheeler, 107 Inverness Terrace, London, W. 2.
May, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 267
Herr Rudolf Lambert prmts a very instructive note. Some time
since the Neues Wiener Journal (quoted in the November number
of the Z. f. Parapsychologie) had attributed to the British Asso-
ciation for the Advancement of Science at its Leeds meeting an
attitude towards the supersensuous spirit-world " which by no
means corresponds with actual fact. In particular the Vienna
paper had put into Dr. T. W. Mitchell's mouth statements which
he never made. Studienrat Lambert deserves our thanks for hav-
ing taken the trouble to make these points clear (he has written
to Dr. Mitchell himself).
&udes, No. 1. 1928. (Paris).
This review is strictly Eoman Catholic, almost all the contri-
butors being, I believe, Jesuits. It is the more interesting to note
the appearance in such an organ of an article by Henr}- de France
entitled " Dowsers of To-day." The " sourciers " in question are
French priests of whom the author of the article speaks in words
of the highest praise. The chief are : Abbe Bouly, cure at Hardelot ;
Abbe Mermet (who seems to be the oldest of aU) of St. Prex,
Switzerland ; Abbe Lucchini (Corsica) ; Abbe Charle (Wismes, Pas
de Calais), and others. The methods used are various : for in-
stance Abbe Mermet is using a pendulum. Abbe Bouly two um-
brella haleines joined together, etc. In this way very extraordinary
results are said to be obtained, from the discovery of shells on
battle-fields to that of bodies of dead bishops in cathedrals, not
to mention underground water, ore, etc. It should be stated at
once that the evidence as judged by our S.P.R. standards is in-
adequate to substantiate all these claims, and that from the
evidential standpoint the Etudes article can hardly be said to add
much to our knowledge of the subject on the positive side.
It should be added that two of the priests mentioned in the
fltiides article were recently tested in Belgium in sympathetic sur-
roundings under ecclesiastical auspices, but, as I am told on good
authority, failed to vindicate their claims. The latter, judging by
some of their public pronouncements, may well be termed in some
respects almost preposterous. P.—P.—S.
Psychic Science, Vol. vi. No. -i. January, 1928. This number
has an article by Mr. F. von Reuter, describing a group of per-
sonal experiences which include some veridical statements obtained
through a form of automatism. No corroborative evidence is given.
268 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mat, 1928
Mrs. Annie Brittain, the well-known medium, describes some of
her psychical experiences in childhood, in some of which there
appear to have been early symptoms of trance.
There is a report on a series of book-tests obtained at the
British College of Psychic Science through the voice-mediumship of
Mrs. Blanche Cooper. In the most striking of these the word
" wanders " was correctly stated to occur upon one of two named
pages in a given book. But the circumstances in which these
tests were obtained are not given in sufficient detail for their
evidential value to be accurately assessed.
Mr. F. W. Warwick describes a " psychic photograph " obtained
through the mediumship of Mrs. Deane. On Mr. Warwick's own
showing the value of the evidence depends entirely on the assump-
tion that Mrs. Deane could not have in her possession a photo-
graph corresponding to the extra. It is only fair to add that, so
far as is known apparently, no photograph " exactly similar to the
extra " exists. But the sceptic in these matters is likely to de-
mand more positive proof than Mr. Warwick offers.
There is also an account of some table-tilting obtained by three
ladies, whose names are given. The purporting communicator is
a man calling himself Haddon who is said to have lived in the
time of Charles the Second. It has not so far been possible to
identify him.
In the Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research for
December 1927 Monsieur Rene Sudre has an article on " The
Question of Human Radiations," in which he discusses and criti-
cises a book by Captain C Mondeil, entitled Le Fluide humain
devant la physique revelatrice et la metapsychique objective, and also
some experiments in animal radio-activity carried out by Monsieur
Albert Nodon of the Bordeaux Astronomical Society. M. Sudre
points out that this whole question of human radio-activity haB
fallen into doubt and disrepute because
the greater part of the existing research on human radiation
has been prosecuted by metapsychists who are not physicists,
and who have not even had a very clear understanding of electro-
magnetic radiations. . . . Whenever the proponents of human
radiation will indicate the numerical value of these supposed
electromagnetic waves, they may be assured that radio specia-
lists will construct the necessary apparatus to bring them in
Mat, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 269
evidence. . . . But from the od of Eeichenbach right down
to the present moment the matter is left in the most phan-
tastical vagueness ; and that is why savants will not take it
seriously.
He concludes by urging the importance of systematic experi-
ments by competent physicists.
Mr. Harry Price gives an account of the opening of Joanna
Southcott's box at Church House, Westminster, on June 11, 1927.
Various mediums had been asked beforehand to describe the con-
tents of the box. Of these mediums Mr. Vout Peters was the
most successful, but in no case does the degree of success obtained
seem to be clearly beyond chance.
Mr. George H. Breaker concludes his report on " A Series of
Mediumistic Experiences " with Mrs. McKenzie. No very striking
incidents are recorded, but taken collectively the results seem to
give evidence of knowledge supernormally acquired ; some of this
knowledge could not be obtained from the sitter's mind.
The Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research for
January 1928 is issued in a new form under the title Psychic
Research. It opens with an account of the purchase of the
Society's new ofl&ces at Hyslop House, 15 Lexington Avenue, New
York, and an appeal for larger funds for research.
The number includes an article on the latest developments of
the Margery mediumship by Mr. J. Malcolm Bird, entitled " Tele-
plasmic Thumbprints." This article is the first of a series and is
mainly introductory.
Mr. F. Bligh Bond has an article on " The Mind in Animals,"
in which he describes some experiments he carried out with a
Shetland pony, the property of Mr. T. Barrett of Briarcliff, N.Y.
This pony is alleged to " possess powers analogous to those of the
thinking horses " of Elberfeld. Mr. Bligh Bond inclines to the
hypothesis that the case is one of the " action of another intelli-
gence working through the pony and using the brain mechanism
of the pony in a mediumistic sense." The weak point of these
experiments is that Mr. Bligh Bond never succeeded in getting the
answer to any question, when it was provably unknown to Mr.
Barrett.
This number also contains the first instalment (introductory) of
Prof. Christian Winther's " Experimental Enquiries into Tele-
270 Journal of Society /o?' Psychical Research Mat, 1928
kinesis " with the Danish medium, Mrs. Anna Rasmussen. As
several further instalments are expected, anything in the way of
summary or criticism is best deferred.
Mr. Theodore Besterman has an article on clairvoyance, in which
he discusses the relation between clairvoyance and telepathy, and
gives it as his opinion that some results commonly ascribed to
thought-transference are probably due to clairvoyance. He con-
cludes by a classification of this phenomenon into various types.
Sir Oliver Lodge's " The Case for Psychical Research " is re-
printed from The Outline}
M. Rene Sudre has an article in which he criticises a recent
book by a French occultist, M. Piobb, interpreting in the light of
subsequent events the sixteenth century prophecies of Nostradamus.
M. Piobb seems to display that excessive ingenuity which is apt
to afflict all students of cryptograms. An example quoted by
M. Sudre will illustrate his method : by a process of gradual modi-
fication the original sentence Trois innocents qu'on viendra a livrer
becomes Innocent drei veux traitre, and this is interpreted as a
reference to the Dreyfus case.
M. Sudre concludes by designating as " rubbish " predictions
" founded upon the course of the stars, the properties of numbers,
or the figures on playing cards." True prevision of the future
" is closely linked with the rest of metapsychics, that is to say,
with telepathy and clairvoyance. It depends upon the meta-
gnomic faculty, which perhaps exists in a latent form in all
men."
Psychic Research. February 1928. Monsieur Rene Sudre has
an article on " Clairvoyance and the Theory of Probabilities," in
which he discusses the application of mathematics in determining
whether the result of any given experiment can or cannot be
attributed to chance alone. He mentions in particular the
experiments with cards which Miss Jephson is at present carrying
out in connexion with this Society, and indicates one or two
points which he considers important in the tabulating of results.
The conclusion to which M. Sudre comes is that the field of
psychical research lies mainly in a region in which statistics play
little or no part. " As Bergson has remarked apropos of a
phenomenon of the phantasm of the living type, statistics have
' This paper was read at a Meeting of the S.P.R. on December 1, 1927.
Mat, 1928 JVotes on Periodicals 271
no meaning here. The unique case suffices '
from the moment
when one grasps it with all that it involves.' Now what it
does involve is a considerable quantity of things, the combination
of which into a single whole cannot be the work of chance."
This article is followed by one on Probabilities and Meta-
psychics ''
by Mr. J. Malcolm Bird, in which he continues the
discussion of various problems raised by M. Sudre with special
reference to the results obtained in the broadcasting experiment
which he carried out in America in 1924 in collaboration with
Mr. Gardner Murphy. '"
It will be seen," Mr. Bird concludes,
" from all this that experiments of apparently very simple subject
matter may turn out to involve psychological questions of extreme
difficulty. So on every ground we may concur with M. Sudre
that such experiments may well be given over in the presence
of any acceptable substitute."
Prof. Christian Winther, S.D., continues his report on experi-
ments with Mrs. Anna Rasmussen ; and there is also a further
instalment of the " Report on the Thumb-print Experiments " with
'
Margery.'
Bulletin VII. of the Boston Society for Psychic Research (January
1928) consists mainly of " Experiments with physical mediums in
Europe : A detailed study in the interpretation of Indicia by the
Research Officer of the Boston Society for Psychic Research
"
(Dr. Walter Franklin Prince).
The mediums with whom Dr. Prince had sittings were Rudi
Schneider of Braunau, Frau Silbert of Graz, Jan Guzik of Warsaw,
and Mrs. Batten Baylis of London. Those members who were
present will remember that Dr. Prince very kindly gave us a brief
but vivid account of some of the experiences here described at a
conversazione on October 19th last at which he was the guest of
our Society. He witnessed phenomena with all the mediums, but
was not successful in getting any under conditions affording
evidence of supernormality. Indications pointing to a possibly
normal origin for the phenomena were, however, numerous. The
conditions under which the sittings were held were those laid down
by the mediums and their friends.
Dr. Prince's detailed account of his experiences and observations
and his discussion of them will be found of great value to anyone
entering on investigation of the physical phenomena of spiritualism,
whether with these particular mediums or others. [For the con-
272 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mat, 1928
venience of students who may wish to carry the study of these
particular mediums further Dr. Prince has added some biblio-
graphical notes showing where reports and discussions pro and con
may be found.]
Bulletin No. VIII. of the Boston Society for Psychic Research.
" Evidence of Things not Seen," by Sally Keene. Pp. 66.
March, 1928.
The Bulletins of this Society are following each other with great
rapidity. The present one consists of extracts by Mrs. Keene from
her records of automatic writing and trance speaking in the years
1919 to 1925 ; the automatists concerned being herself and " Jane,"
a friend and member of her household. Jane was the more
powerful medium of the two and the only one who went into
trance, but it is an interesting point that " except for an occa-
sional short message it was necessary for [Mrs. Keene] to touch
Jane while she was receiving a communication." This experience
resembles that of Mr. S. G. Soal, who I believe can write auto-
matically only when another automatist is touching his hand.
There was in these sittings no habitual control to act as an inter-
mediary like Mrs. Leonard's Feda. But there were some frequent
communicators who sometimes introduced others, and there were a
considerable number of communicators, known and unknown, pass-
ing across the stage, as it were, in some cases only once or twice.
The characterisation of different communicators was very distinct,
and was maintained with dramatic consistency.
The extracts published are selected either as in varying degrees
evidential " or in other ways interesting. There is also an im-
portant chapter on the development of Jane's automatism from
the ouija board to writing with a pencil and then to visions and
trance speaking, together with the sensations of the automatists
and the views expressed by communicators as to the process of
communicating. The paper is an interesting and important one,
and should certainly be read by all students of automatic writing
and trance speaking.
E. M. S.
ERRATUM.
S.P.R. Jour., vol. xxiv., p. 232, I. 19, " discussing " should be
" dismissing."
No. 446.—Vol. XXIV. Jone, 1928.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i.,
ON
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 2jth, 1928, at 8.30 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" Recent Experiments in Card-Guessing
"
WILL BE READ BY
Miss INA JEPHSON.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Aditussion are issuedfor this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
274 Journal of Society for Psychical Reftearch June, 1928
GENEKAL MEETING.
Preliminary Announcement.
A General Meeting of the Society will be held in The Council
Chamber, Denison House, 296 Vauxhall Bridge Road, London,
S.W. 1, on July 16th, 1928, at 8.30 p.m.
Monsieur Rene Warcollier will read a paper (in French)
entitled " L'accord Telepathique."' The paper will be illustrated
by lantern slides, and a short abstract in English will be
available for distribution among the audience.
A further announcement of this Meeting will appear in the
Journal for July, with which the usual tickets for visitors
will be distributed. Any Member or Associate desiring to
have more than one ticket is asked to communicate with the
Secretary.
NEW MEMBERS.
Brackenbury, A. G., Flat 5, 162 Westbourne Terrace, Hyde Park, W.2.
Mallet, E. H., LL.M., 14 St. James's Square, Bath.
Pope, Miss M. M., 7 Princes Buildings, Clifton, Bristol.
Thorburn, John M., 8 Church Avenue, Penarth, Glam.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 248th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C., on Friday, May 11th, 1928, at 5.30 p.m.
the President in the Chair. There were also present : The
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour, Mr. G. W. Lambert, Mr. J. G.
Piddmgton, ]\Ir. W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J. WooUey ;
also, Mr. Theodore Bester-
man, Hon. Librarian, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Four new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
On the proposal of Mr. Salter, seconded by Mr. J. G.
Piddington, the Council filled the vacant place among their
elected Members caused by the death of Mr. W. W. Baggally
Juke, 1928 Meetings 21b
by appointing to it Mr. G. W. Lambert, idtherto a co-opted
]\Ieinber.
The Monthly Accounts for March and April, 1928, were
presented and taken as read.
PRIVATE MEETINGS.
The 94th Private Meeting of the Society was held in The
Coimcil Chamber, Denison House, 296 Vauxhali Bridge Road,
London, S.W. 1, on Wednesday, March 14th, 1928, at 5.30 p.m.
The President, Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart., delivered his
Address, entitled, "A Report on Sittings with Miss K. Wing-
field (Miss A.) in 1900-1901."
The Address has been published in Part 106 of Proceedings.
The 95th Private Meeting of the Society was held at 31
Tavistock Square on Tuesday, April 24th, 1928, at 5.30 p.m..
The President in the Chair.
The purpose of the Meeting, as stated in the preliminary
annoimcement, was to enable " Members and Associates to
consider and discuss questions relating to the Society's work
more fully and less formally than is possible at the Annual
General Meetings of the Society." Tea was served before
the Meeting, and there was a large attendance.
The President read a statement on behalf of the Council
concerning the circular recently sent out in support of the
requisition signed by certain Private Members for a Special
General Meeting.
A discussion of various questions raised by this circular
followed, in the course of which 'Mx. W. R. Bousfield, K.C.,
strongly advised those responsible for the requisition to with-
draw their demand on the ground that the proposed alterations
in the Articles of Association had not been adequately con-
sidered and were unworkable.-^
A statement was also read by the Hon. Treasurer as to
the relative numbers in recent years of [Members and Associates
1 The requisition, however, has not been mthdrawn, and the Special General
Meeting (for Members only) has now been fixed for July. In view of this circum-
stance no detailed statement on the points at issue is made here.
276 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Junk, 1928
and the Society's normal expenditure per Member and Associ-
ate, from which it appeared that such normal expenditure
considerably exceeded the subscription of one guinea payable
by Associates.
Mr. A. W. Trethewy suggested that it would be a great
advantage if Members could have longer notice of meetings,
and asked if it would not be possible to have the meetings
on fixed dates, to be determined and announced once a year.
The Hon. Editor, Mrs. Salter, said in reply that judging
by her own experience of the Society's work, it would hardly
be possible to look as far ahead as Mr. Trethewy suggested
;
the Society must to a certain extent live from hand to mouth
and report on its investigations as and when results of general
interest were obtained. She thought, however, that something
might be done to meet the wishes of Members on this point,
and undertook on behalf of the Council to give the matter
further consideration.
DONATION.
(Towards Cost of Experiments in Telepathy.)
Anon - - - - - - £5 0 0
OBITUARY.
Mr. W. W. Baggally.
The deeply-regretted death of Mr. W. W. Baggally on March
14th, 1928, deserves more than the short note in which only
it was possible to announce it in the April Journal. In him the
Council have lost not only a valuable friend but a colleague
whose experience in the physical side of the Society's work
was unequalled by that of any other of its members.
His interest in the subject was, like that of probably the
majority of other serious investigators, based on a hope of
being able to find an experimental proof of survival. With
this object he began upon the spiritualistic road, attending
countless private meetings and, with infinite patience, observing
what took place. In this way he experimented with Eglinton,
Cecil Husk, Mrs. Corner, Miss Showers, Boursnell, Miss
Lydia Manks, Mrs. Wreidt, the Zancigs, the Thompsons and
June, 1928 Obituary 277
many others without, however, ever reaching conviction.
His quiet, patient and kindly methods seldom led to any
dramatic exposure, and his conclusions were seldom revealed
to any but his close associates, but were, as to 99 per
cent., absolutely and positively hostile to any claim to the
supernormal quality in what he saw.
In 1896, dissatisfied with the standard of evidence ruling,
at that time at all events, among the majority of spiritualists,
he joined the S.P.R., and in 1902, in consequence of his great
experience and of his exceptional quality as an investigator,
owing to his knowledge of and practical proficiency in conjuring,
he was invited to join the Council. In 1909, doubts having
arisen regarding the justice of the claim to finality of the
negative conclusions of the Cambridge experimenters with
Eusapia Palladino, he was selected as one of a Committee of
three, the others being Dr. Hereward Carrington and Mr.
Everard Feilding, to go to Naples to conduct further experi-
ments with that medium. His conclusions are contained in
his personal contributions to the committee's Report, but may
be summarized as stating his positive conviction (probably for
the first and only time in his life) that he had repeatedly
witnessed phenomena of a supernormal kind, i.e., that raps had
been heard, objects moved and levitated, and lights produced
otherwise than by any fraudulent manipulation. These con-
clusions, however, contributed little to the main interest of his
life, the search for evidence of survival. Some, even, of the
spiritualistic adherents of Eusapia in Naples, while claiming
that her " higher " phenomena, such as telekinetic happenings
of a prolonged purposive character, and materialisations, were
obviously of spirit origin, expressed the belief that the pheno-
mena which had so impressed the committee were probably due
to a merely extra-physical faculty of the medium herself.
Mr. Baggally therefore turned more and more to the cross-
correspondences as being more scientifically evidential of extra-
mundane origin, and they became his sheet anchor for a
belief in a future existence.
During a great part of his long association with the Council
it was to him that recourse was chiefly had when occasion
arose for the investigation of a new medium or of a case of
278 Journal of Society for Psychical Research junb, 1938
spontaneous phenomena reported to the Society. It was seldom,
that such an appeal to his experience and skill was made in
vain, and although of late years his increasing infirmities
necessarily put a term to his activities in this way, his
attendances at Council meetings remained almost pathetically
assiduous to the very end.
THE FIRE WALK.
We print below an account of a recent experience in fire-
walking. A discussion of this phenomenon by Andrew Lang,
with a number of first-hand statements from persons who had
experienced or witnessed it, was published in S.P.R. Proc.
Vol. XV., pp. 2-15. Also of interest in this connexion are the
" fire-tests " observed at sittings with D. D. Home. It will
be remembered that Home claimed not only to be able to
touch red-hot coals himself without injury, but on occasion to
transfer this power to the sitters (see, e.g. Lord Dunraven's
" Experiences in Spiritualism with D. D. Home, Proc. S.P.R.,
Vol. XXXV., p. 135).
This case has come to us through Sir Oliver Lodge, to whom
Mr. E. A. C. Stowell, the father of one of the witnesses, wrote
on 26th December, 1927, enclosing a copy of letter received from
his son, Mr. V. E. Stowell, of the Imperial Bank of India.
Extract from Letter dated Bombay, 2Qth November, 1927, written by
V. E. Stowell:
I had a peculiar experience the other day when I and the
Quinns went along one evening to a fire-walking display. There
was a waste plot of land shut in by hoardings, and in the middle
we found a large bonfire and a " fakir " in a kind of dressing-
gown. The show hadn't been advertised, but was in aid of the
hospital and there were seats all round. In a short time the
fire was raked level along a shallow trench about 12 feet long,
and we were told we could walk through without getting burnt.
Several " wogs " went through barefooted, and then Quinn and
I took our shoes ofi and did bkewise, though in socks, and felt
nothing. It seemed weird enough over blazing embers, but
June; 1928 The Fire Walk 279
afterwards rushes were piled on and blazed up 2 or 3 feet and
we went through again. I had white trousers on but they weren't
singed even. While people were going across in single file the
fakir was worked up in a terrific state of excitement, but every
now and then the power " appeared to leave him and he
would shout out ' Bus Bus " (enough). He shouted this once
when Quinn hadn't quite got over, and before he could hop off
one of his feet was slightly scorched. We roared with laughter.
That alone shows it's genuine, but apparently the man has been
examined by scientific societies all over Europe, etc. We talked
to an Indian who is well-known to Quinn and he said this fakir
was the only one in existence with this power, which was passed
through his family each generation. The fakir was very emaciated
and had nothing to eat all day. After the show he was pros-
trated, with rolling eye-balls. I had heard of fire-walking by
fakirs themselves, but how he enables other people to do so is a
mystery.
It sounds hard to believe, but I am certain there was no fake,
and the fire was too hot to sit close to. There was a native band
in attendance, and at the end they all went through the fire
playing quite gaily, and the drums weren't injured. I never saw
anything so ludicrous as some of these fat Parsees solemnly
marching through with bare feet, and sometimes holding a child
by each hand. I had woollen socks on, but they weren't even
frizzled.
It is all very mysterious, and, of course, we are accused of being
' tight " by people who weren't there.
After quoting the above extract Mr. E. A. C. Stowell con-
tinues thus :
" Quinn " is tramway manager in Bombay. The writer lives
as a paying guest with Mr. and Mrs. Quinn, who have been in
India for a long time.
Fire-walking by a single individual seems intelligible as an
example of the mind's power over its own body, as illustrated in
hypnotic phenomena, ''
stigmata," etc. But that others, not
hypnotised, and not even credulous, should be enabled to do the
same thing opens a new chapter.
The writer of the letter is a light-hearted youth in his twenties,
is quite unimpressed, " roars with laughter," etc. It is not
280 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jdne, 1928
his mind which produces the effects. Neither is it " collective
hypnotism." Children are dragged through the fire. Also, the
fact that the last man's feet were instantly scorched when the
" power " failed is undesignedly evidential.
But what " mental power " can prevent fire from burning ?
If it can, what do we begin to know of the relation of mind to
matter ?
E. A. C. Stowell.
On receiving the above communications the Hon. Editor,
Mrs. Salter, wrote on 28t]i January, 1928, to Mr. V. E. Stowell,
pointing out that in. his original letter it was not clear whether
the fire-walkers had passed along the whole length of the
trench (given as about twelve feet) or had walked across it
(width not given) ; it would be desirable to have a more exact
statement on that point. She continued : -
. ,
You mention that your experience was shared by your friend
Mr. Quinn. We should be greatly obliged to Mr. Quinn if he
also would send an account of the experience, not only because
it is interesting to have more than one independent report of these
curious events, but because Mr. Quinn had an experience, which
you did not share, when, owing to exhaustion on the part of the
Fakir, he suddenly became aware of the heat of the fire and his
foot was slightly scorched.
We should be especially glad to have Mr. Quinn's account of
that incident, mentioning whether he like yourself was wearing
socks, and, if so, whether he noticed any sign of scorching on
the sock afterwards.
Do you remember the exact date of your experience ?
H. BE G. Salter.
In reply to this letter Mr. Stowell wrote to Mrs. Salter as
follows :
The Imperial Bank op India,
Bombay, 22n(Z February, 1928.
I have received your letter of 28th January regarding my fire-
walking experience of which I had given an account when writing
home. I am not in touch with Mr. Quinn at present, but have
sent him a copy of your letter and you will no doubt hear from
him. Regarding the question you raise about the fire-trench.
June, 1928 The Fire Walk 281
evidently I did not give a sufficiently clear account, as I meant
to convey that I had walked along the length of the trench, not
across its width. As the trench was only 3^ feet wide and
6 inches deep, it would of course have been possible to stride
across without touching the fire, but to walk along its length
involved stepping on the embers three or four times, as the
trench was about 12 feet long. I myself went over twice, the
second time when rushes had been strewn on the embers and
flames about 2 feet high were caused. I walked quite slowly
but did not stand still at all, which I had not sufficient faith to
do!
I found that after stepping ofi the fire-trench pieces of burning
cinders were adhering to my socks, and a small hole was burnt in
one place before I could shake them ofi.
Mr. Quinn also walked over in socks, but had only gone about
half way I believe when he jumped off hastily. Apparently too
many people had tried to go at one time, as the fakir's " power
"
lasted, I suppose, for less than a minute on each occasion. Mr.
Quinn afterwards showed me the blisters he suffered from, but I
think no holes were burnt in his socks, which was very surprising.^
I regret I cannot remember the date of this occurrence, nor
have I been able to find out. There were very few Europeans
present, as the performance took place at short notice and was not
advertised. V. E. Stowell.
Mrs. Salter has also received a letter from Mr. H. C. Quinn,
Traffic Manager, Bombay Electric Supply and Tramways Co.,
Ltd., as follows :
2nd March, 1928.
Your letter of 28th January addressed to Mr. V. E. Stowell
has been handed on to me. I have pleasure in giving you a
short account of my experience of walking through the fire :
The trench was 12 feet by 4 feet. On the first occasion,
22nd November last, when I walked through I went without my
shoes, in socks only. We were told at the start to walk slowly,
which we did. There was not the least mark of any scorching
on my socks, nor did I feel any discomfort. I may state that the
fire was a fierce one, the embers being red hot, and the flames as
I walked through curled round my body well above the knees.
1 See Mr. Quinn's letter below.
282 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, 1928
I walked across again the same evening, being the last of the
party that went over. As I got 3 parts across Mr. Syed Husein
Atashi suddenly lost his power and falling down called out " Stop,
Stop." I immediately felt a burning sensation through the feet
and jumped off the fire to the side, when I found that both my
feet had been blistered and my socks scorched. On December
19th I went again with my wife and a party, who all walked
across without shoes. None of the party were in any way burnt,
neither were their socks or stockings marked. On this occasion
the crowd was very dense, and one was not able to walk across
in comfort as on the previous occasion.
I enclose copy of a letter on the subject, which Mr. P. D.
Mahaluxmivala, who was previously a member of your Society,
I believe in 1921, addressed to one of the vernacular papers in
Bombay, which may be of interest to you.
Should you publish these experiences I shall be obliged if you
will kindly send me a couple of copies of the publication.
H. C. QuiNN.
With Mr. Quinn's letter was enclosed the following statement
from Mr. P. D. Mahaluxmivala, J. P., Secretary, Bombay,
Electrical Supply and Tramways Co., Ltd.
29</; February, 1928.
Walking through Fire.
I was present on three occasions when, by virtue of the power
over fire possessed by Syed Husein Atashi, many persons were
able to walk uninjured through glowing embers and through
flames.
In each instance a large number of spectators, including well-
known British and Indian ladies and gentlemen, witnessed the
spectacle.
The Acting Police Commissioner, Mr. Healy, presided on the
first occasion, which took place on the 17th of November, 1927.
A trench 12 feet long by 4 feet wide and 1 foot deep had been
filled with glowing embers of about half a ton of burning firewood.
Immediately on the arrival of the Acting Police Commissioner,
Syed Husein Atashi, calling aloud repeatedly the word " gulzar,"
invited those present to walk through the trench without fear.
Two Mahomedans, apparently servants of his, then entered the
trench. •
June, 1928 The Fire Walk 283
Taking courage from this example several people, among whom
were a few Parsi ladies, followed bare footed from one end of
the trench to the other.
No one complained of hurt.
I also took off my shoes and walked in my socks through the
glowing embers, feeling only the sensation of treading on a slightly
warm rough surface.
Syed Husein Atashi then had pieces of matting thrown on to
the embers, and, when these were burning, again asked any one
who desired to pass through the flames. Several spectators did
this without injury.
Lastly, pieces of matting were saturated with paraffin and
flung into the trench. Again people walked unharmed through
the flames that literally reached their knees.
A little Mahomedan girl about eight, and her brother about
ten years of age, both passed through the fire. The loin cloth
of a young Hindu, who inadvertently placed his foot outside the
limits of the trench, caught fire, but his skin was not even scorched.
A friend of mine, a doctor, who noticed the incident, assured me that,
in the ordinary course of events, the youth would have been burned
seriously enough to necessitate his immediate removal to the hospital.
At certain moments during the proceedings Syed Husein Atashi
sank exhausted to the ground in a fainting condition, but re-
covered after his servants had administered hot tea to him.
On the second occasion, on the 22nd of November, Sir Dinshaw
Petit, with a party of relations and friends, was among the
numerous onlookers. British and Indian ladies and many other
people walked through the fire.
During the third occasion, on the 10th of December, when the
Commissioner of Police, Mr. Kelly, was present, the rush of
spectators to tread upon the glowing embers resulted in the feet
of perhaps half a dozen persons being more or less blistered. A
very large number, upwards of one hundred, passed through the
trench, however, without mishap.
Syed Husein Atashi, I was informed, is a native of Burmah.
He is a tall thin old man about eighty-seven years of age. He
was clad in a bright yellow robe reaching to his ankles.
In his hand he bore a flag, on which was inscribed a verse
from the Koran, that he waved over the fire at intervals before
inviting the spectators to walk through it.
284 Journal 0/ Society for Psychical Research June, 1928
He claims that one of his ancestors, hailing from Medina, who
had settled in Mandalay some four hundred and fifty years ago,
possessed this power over fire. The gift, he avers, has been trans-
mitted to the descendants of this ancestor from father or mother
to son, and from mouth to mouth.
Of the many testimonials that he holds, both from Englishmen
and Indians of high standing, the following three are typical :
1. From the British Resident of Gwalior State :
" Syed Hussein Atashi has given us an exhibition of his
fire-walking performance. We were all much impressed by
seeing immunity from injury which he and others enjoyed in
walking over a long trench of live coals." The Residency,
Gwalior, 2?,rd April, 1907.
2. From the Divan (Minister) of the Junagadh State :
" I have seen the fire- walking performance of the bearer
Syed Husain Atashi of Burma on two occasions—one when
His Excellency Sir George Clarke was here and once with
His Highness the Navab Saheb. It is difficult to under-
stand how the Syed manages to make so many men, appar-
ently not of his party, walk over burning charcoal." Juna-
gadh, bth March, 1910.
3. From the Private Secretary to Sir George Clarke (Lord
Sydenham) the then Governor of Bombay :
" In reply to his letter of the 12th inst. Saiyed Husain
Atashi is informed that His Excellency and Stafi saw while
at Junagadh his performance of walking bare-foot on live
coals and of enabling others to do so. It is a curious and
interesting spectacle and [it] seems difficult to find an explanation
to it." \Uh February, 1910.
P. D. Mahaluxmivala.
NOTES ON EECENT CASES.
During the last few months the Society has been able to
investigate an unusually large number of cases of alleged
haunted houses. In none of these cases was evidence obtain-
able of anything of a supernormal nature taking place, and
only in the Battersea and Streatham cases did any of the
alleged supernormal phenomena occur while the Society's
June, 1928 Notes on Recent Cases 285
representatives were on the premises. All that could be done
therefore was to obtain detailed accounts of what was alleged
to have taken place. It is not possible to give any definite
proof of their causation. The houses concerned were as
follows :
1. Threapwood, Cheshire. An old farmhouse. lu this case
the phenomena reported consisted of rappings on an interior
wall, hissing noises heard at night, an apparition coming down
the stairs, (this was not recognised, it was simply described as
a white figure), small objects were said to have been moved
from one place to another when no one was near them and
marks, which the occupants took to be bloodstains, appeared on
furniture and woodwork in various rooms. The investigators
spent two nights in the house, but nothing of a supernormal
nature occurred while they were there. On one occasion they
thought they heard the alleged " hissing noise," but it was
discovered to be the laboured breathing of a cat which was
suffering from asthma. Whether this was the " hissing noise ''
heard
by the occupants it is impossible to say, but it might have been.
2. Fulham, London. A room in a lodging house. The tenant
of this room, a Frenchwoman, stated that for some months past
she had seen an apparition nearly every night. It was in the
form of a male figure entirely black and carrying a glowiug
pitchfork. She said that it came through the closed door, stood
over her bed for a few minutes and then seemed to vanish
through the floor. She stated also that black smudges appeared
on her face from time to time when she was alone in the room
and that sometimes after she had gone to bed and turned out
the light she saw curious writing on the ceiling and strange
crescent-shaped lights on the walls. Two visits were paid to
the house by different investigators, but nothing unusual took
place while they were present. There was no opportunity of
further observation of this case as the occupant returned to France
very shortly after the second visit.
3. Battersea, London. House in Eland Road. In this case
the phenomena alleged to have occurred consisted in the projection
of missiles from outside the house in the form of stones, coal,
soda, etc., which broke some of the glass in the back doors and
286 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, 1928
windows. Inside the house furniture was said to have been
thrown over and damaged and various small objects levitated
from one place to another. Showers of coal and soda were
said to have fallen in various parts of the house. By means of
careful and continuous observation extending over many days
and nights a number of the alleged supernormal phenomena
inside the house were witnessed by the investigators, and it
became possible to say that all these were brought about by
normal means although the agent responsible could not possibly
have carried out all the previous phenomena of which we have
only hearsay evidence. It is unfortunate that the full details
of the case involve confidential material which cannot well be
published, but it is probable that the disturbances were caused
by several different persons acting independently with different
motives, a fact which rendered the case exceedingly difficult to
investigate though of great interest to the psychological student.
4. Lifton, Devon. This case was reported shortly after the
Battersea case, but the disturbances did not continue long enough
for investigation. It was apparently of a similar type to the
latter, and the Society was able to obtain a trustworthy account
from a local source.
5. Wissenden, Kent. The disturbances here also occurred soon
after those at Battersea and Lifton, both of which had been given
great prominence in the daily press, and there is little doubt
that they were due to the suggestion so conveyed. Although no
phenomena occurred during the visit of the Society's representa-
tives, they were able to obtain evidence relating to the disturbances
and to form an opinion as to their causation.
6. Netting Hill Gate, London. In this case one of the occu-
pants, a young man of about twenty-five years of age, stated that
on two occasions he saw a grey form going into a small room
in the basement of the house. He did not recognise it nor
could he say whether it was male or female ; he states that
only the head and shoulders '
were visible. Other phenomena
said to have taken place in this house consisted of whistling and
singing in an empty room and footsteps on the stairs which
could not be accounted for, also a door that was bolted over
night was several times found open in the morning. Six visits
June, 1928 Notes on Recent Cases 287
were paid to this house, but nothing unusual occurred at any
time in the presence of the investigator, and for some weeks no
further disturbances have been reported.
7. Adelphi Theatre. Disturbances in a dressing room. In this
case the alleged phenomena consisted in raps on the door, furni-
ture and underneath a couch in a room which was supposed to
have been occupied by William Terriss, who was murdered outside
the theatre some years ago. These raps always occurred between
the hours of 6 and 7.30 on matinee days while the occupant of
the room was resting for the evening performance. Three visits
were paid to the theatre, but nothing of a supernormal nature
happened while the investigator was present, and no further
disturbances have been reported during the last month.
8. Streatham, London. Private house. In this case the alleged
phenomena consisted of raps of an unknown origin which took
place in a certain room at night, usually after 11 o'clock. They
were heard by all the members of the family and purported to
convey messages from a deceased friend. Although several visits
were paid to the house and on one occasion the raps were heard
by the investigator, nothing of an evidential nature was obtained.
The Society is keeping in touch with this case with a view to
further investigation should the disturbances continue.
KEVIEWS.
I. Charles Nordmann, L'Au-Dela. Face au probleme de Vimmor-
talite. Librairie Hachette, Paris. 256 pages.
M. Charles Nordmann is a well-known astronomer of the Paris
Observatory, and the book in six chapters (with introduction and
epilogue) is worthy of the very distinguished author and savant
whose name often appears in the columns of the Matin and in
the pages of that venerable fortnightly the Revue des deux Mondes.
To the psychical researcher the title of the present book is,
however, somewhat misleading. The Beyond of which M. Nord-
mann speaks is the Beyond of space and time, the solar system
and its
"'
exquisite miniature " the atom, the Milky Way and the
Nebulae, the Eternal and the Infinite. Of human survival the
author speaks very little, though admitting that " among so many
problems the problem of survival is the one that especially
288 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, 1928
impassions most men "
(p. 253). To this problem by the way-
he gives no definite answer.
Two chapters of the book deal, however, with Psychical Research :
the first (" Spiritism and Metapsychics ") and the second (" The
Mystery of the Ectoplasma "). The author strives to be impartial,
and if he demolishes the evidence for the " ectoplasma " supposed
by some to have been afforded by Einer Neilsen, Miss Goligher,
" Eva Carriere," Kluski and other mediums, few of us will be
disposed to question his negative conclusions. It may be men-
tioned by the way that the last chapter at least is a little out
of date (the book itself bears none !) : thus the name of Dr.
Geley is repeatedly mentioned, but nothing is said as to his
tragic death. It is not quite clear by the way why out of the
whole domain of Psychical Research the " ectoplasma " should
have been specially singled out : surely a discussion of the con-
tents of mediumistic messages from the standpoint of human sur-
vival or even supernormal knowledge pure and simple would have
been more appropriate to a work dealing with the " Au-dela."
M. Charles Nordmann's knowledge of " metapsychics " appears to
be certainly limited by the way, otherwise he would hardly have
written :
" To speak of unconscious thought is to use therefore
words devoid of meaning " (p. 271). " To speak of unconscious
thought is therefore to make a petitio principii "
(p. 272). Even
supposing he means here something different from what we mean
by the subconscious self and subconscious thought, M. Nordmann
would probably have expressed himself differently if he had been
more familiar with our researches.
On the whole the two chapters in question might have been
omitted without modifying in any degree the character and the
value of the book.
In the chapters dealing with the universe and its astronomical
abyss we are overwhelmed with facts and numbers almost calcu-
lated sometimes to make us feel dizzy. I have no authority
whatever to express on these subjects any doubts nor indeed any
opinions. I cannot abstain, however, from uttering a very modest
desideratum. Could not that admirable science, Astronomy,
direct the greatest part of its tremendous effort to unravel the
mystery of the Universe somewhat nearer home ? It is no doubt
intensely interesting to hear so much about thousands of milliards
of kilometers and hundreds of thousands, nay, millions of years.
June, 1928 Reviews 289
But—what about the infinitely less remote in space canals of
Mars ? If I mistake not, about half a century has now elapsed
since Professor Schiaparelli's discovery. How is it that astrono-
mers are still wrangling about these canals ? And by " wrangling
"
I do not only mean disagreement as to their origin : whether
natural or artificial, but also as to their objective or quasi-
subjective character.
Will it be too audacious on the part of a layman humbly to
suggest that Astronomy might do well to begin, provisionally at
least, if not quite at home like charity, at least in the relative
neighbourhood of the Earth ? And when the Mars problem has
been definitely settled, nemine contradicente, there will be time
enough to fathom the abysses of the Infinite—where control of
the observations and calculations made is by the way (let it be
said between ourselves) in all likelihood much more difficult.
Characteristically enough the Mars riddle is not even alluded to
by M. Charles Nordmann, who prefers either hovering in the
bottomless abysses of the vault of heaven or diving into the
mysteries of the world of atoms and electrons. And yet are there
riddles of more stupendous interest than those relating to what
the late Camille Flammarion called the habitabilite of planets ?
Mysteries where the natural and the (so-called) supernatural
seem to merge into each other ;
mysteries where dream and
reality may become 07ie, and compared to which even the question
of human survival seems to me to dwindle into relative insig-
nificance ? P.-P.-S.
II. Dr. Richard Baerwald, Okkultismus iind Spiritis7nus und
ihre weltanschauliche Folgerungen. Deutsche Buchgemeinschaft,
Berlin, 1926. 404 pages.
This book is very attractive. It is full of valuable criticisms,
observations and facts. There are nine chapters in all. The
first is devoted to considerations and conceptions of a general
character ; the second to the subconscious self ; the third to
mediumship ; the fourth to automatic writing, crystal-gazing,
table-tilting and rapping and the sideric pendulum ; the fifth to
telepathy, both spontaneous and experimental ; the sixth to hyper-
aesthesia and telepathy " in disguise " ; the seventh to prophecy ;
and premonitions ; the eighth to physical phenomena ; the
ninth to spiritism and the problem of immortality.
290 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, 1928
The standpoints of the learned editor of the Zeitschrift fiir
Kritischen Okkultismus are well known. He rejects the physical
phenomena altogether and clairvoyance so far as the latter is
regarded as supernormal knowledge which cannot be explained
as hyperaesthesia, hypermnesia and thought-transference. On the
other hand he fully admits telepathy, envisaged by him as a
physical emanation ; he even gives it an extension for which
—
Dr. Baerwald will, I am sure, excuse my stating my opinion
plainly—there is no justification in our present knowledge. The
subconscious self again becomes under his hands quite an arsenal
where he finds plenty of resources for explaining apparently
supernormal occurrences in a '
natural '
way (giving the word
'
natural '
a '
pull ' which permits telepathy to fit into it). Hyper-
aesthesia again is given an extension which may well be called
tremendous. No saying is truer than the French dictum : les
extremes se touchent. The hypercritical Dr. Baerwald here again
makes admissions and postulates hypotheses for which there is
no basis in fact, therefore his hypercriticism comes into close
contact with lack of criticism. To note this is not to disparage
a very valuable and fascinating work.
On pages 193-207 the author attempts to demolish the evidence
for thought-transference at close distances. Some of his remarks
are certainly telling, and I for my part am willing to admit their
hien-fonde. But, seeing that he believes in hypnosis and tele-
pathy at great distances, it is not quite clear to me why he
insists so much on unconscious whispering as an explanation of
the Nahversuche. He goes even to the extent of not excluding
this explanation in the case of the late Professor BekhterefE's
dogs (p. 203 footnote).
I do not think, generally speaking, that we have already reached
a stage in which in discussing such experiments as those with
Ossowiecki, with Dr. Chowrin's Russian clairvoyante, etc., we
should be justified in championing one supernormal explanation
against another, e.g., thought-transference against clairvoyance.
I am considerably impressed by some of the evidence, but I still
think we want more of it ; and meanwhile the alternative should
not be between clairvoyance and telepathy but between clair-
voyance or telepathy on the one hand and prosaic trickery (to use
no uglier term) on the other. This is a circumstance which Dr.
Baerwald seems to me somewhat to neglect.
June, 1928 Reviews 291
I miss in his—I repeat, most valuable—work a chapter on
Phantasms of the Dead. Such cases are very rare—I speak, of
course, of evidential ones only—but they do exist, and Professor
Richet has done them the honour of calling them somewhere
troublants. Dr. Baerwald's omission is the less comprehensible as
his theory of extended telepathy would have surely enabled him to
dispose of such cases very easily, if not always quite satisfactorily.
In Chapter VII. the pages where the author explains away some
prophecies of Nostradamus soi-disant bearing on the French
Revolution will be read with peculiar interest (pp. 321-327).
The demonstration (by Prof. Richard Henning) leaves nothing to
be desired. I am far more sceptical with regard to the explana-
tion by telepathy of such cases of apparent premonition as Mrs.
Schweizer's dream of the impending death of her son (pp. 338-
339). And I may add that it is very fortunate that for such
action of telepathy as Dr. Baerwald here supposes there is no
evidence whatsoever. Yes, this is indeed fortunate. For life
is very complicated already. If, in addition to our usual troubles,
we are henceforward compelled carefully to control and suppress
the anxiety we may feel with regard to those dear to us, even
when hundreds of miles away, lest this anxiety may by dint of
some telepathic impact d rebours start the very calamity we are
apprehending !
—our life may well become well nigh unbearable.
I think chance-coincidence in Mrs. Schweizer's case (as in many
others) a much more plausible explanation than is usually sup-
posed, and I also think that, generally speaking, Dr. Baerwald
might with advantage have availed himself of this hypothesis
far more than he has.
The last chapter contains a fine " parable (pp. 385 sqq.). Dr.
Baerwald will not admit that there is life after death. Like him
I see nothing very frightful in total annihilation, and also think
the orthodox Christian conception in this respect far more terrible.^
1 Sir 0. Lodge (Proceedings, Vol. XXXIV., p. 117) says that in the
Middle Ages the fear of post mortem torment " must have given so much
pain that really those beliefs were hardly superior to the more ancient
beliefs of the Egyptians." It is not quite clear why he speaks in the past
tense. Surely Sir Oliver knows that hundreds of millions of Christians
(both Roman Catholics and Greek-Orthodox) still hold to the present day
the same conception which, by the way, seems to them—and in my opinion
rightly enough—based on some of the most explicit and most unequivocal
statements of the very Founder of Christianity.
292 Journal of Society for Psychical Research june, 1928
But even supposing annihilation to be true (as to which I am not
completely certain) it may well be doubted whether the present
day masses are ripe for such a—supposed
—" truth." In the
present phase of mankind can morality dispense with the sanction
of a threat, be it transcendental ? I have on this subject some
doubts. Let us conclude that nature may have acted very wisely
in not lifting up, so far as the problem of survival is concerned,
the veil of Isis in the present hard-tried generation.
P.-P.-S.
SHORT NOTICES.
KuDOLF TiscHNER, Fmiiz Anton Mesmer : Lehen, Werk und
Wirkungen. 8vo, pp. 176, nine portraits, facsimiles and ill.
Miinchen : Verlag der Miinchner Drucke, 1928. Price,
bound 11 M., unbound 9 M.
Our Corresponding Member Dr. Tischner has added to his
lengthening list of works on psychical research and kindred
subjects an admirably organised work on Mesmer, his theories
and influence. A brief survey of Mesmer's forerunners is followed
by an account of his life and an analysis of the writings pro-
duced by him and by his followers and opponents. The develop-
ment of Mesmerism on the one hand into hypnotism and on the
other into " new thought " and its offshoots, is then outlined, and
a bibliography of Mesmer concludes the whole. Dr. Tischner has
written a lucid and well-balanced book, which supplements, and
possibly replaces, the works of Kerner and Kiesewetter on the
same subject. It may be noted that it was found possible to
verify a considerable proportion of Dr. Tischner's many references
and citations without going outside the Society's Library.
G. WiLLOUGHBY Meade, Chinese Ghouls and Goblins. 8vo,
pp. XV. 432, 16 ill. London : Constable & Co., Ltd., 1928.
Price 24s. net.
Mr. Meade's book is a most pleasing and enterprising excursion
into the Chinese realms of the supernatural. Though his aim is
to amuse rather than to instruct, a good deal of information can
be extracted from his pages. The chapters on spirits, divination
and magic, and spiritualism, in particular, contain a good deal
that will be new to most students of psychical research. We
do not gather, however, that Mr. Meade came across many
June, 1928 Short Notices 293
genuinely supernormal phenomena. The book is very handsomely
produced and illustrated, and has a full index.
Henry Herbert Goddard, Two Souls in one Body ? 8vo,
pp. xiii. 242, nine portraits and ill. London : Rider & Co.
[1928]. Price 6s. net.
This is an account of an interesting case of dual personality,
in which a girl, nineteen years of age at the beginning of the
record, sometimes behaved as if she were a child of four. The
author is convinced of the genuineness of the case, but his attempt
to make his book popular compelled him to omit most of that
careful detail and hour-to-hour observation which is so necessary
to enable the reader to form his own opinion. We hope that
Dr. Goddard will without much delay publish a scientific account
of the case.
J. J. Van Biervliet, La Psychologie d'aujourd'hui. 8vo, pp. v.
154. Paris : Felix Alcan, 1927. Price 15 fr.
Professor van Biervliet's little book is directed to the object of
showing that the study of memory is the most important task of
modern psychology. He endeavours to achieve this aim by
pointing to the importance of the memory in imagination, atten-
tion, introspection, and so on. It is a suggestive thesis, but as
yet " not proven."
From Worlds Unseen. By M. A., Ball. Coll., Oxon. Foreword
by Sir Oliver Lodge. 8vo, pp. xv. 78. London : Rider &
Co. [1928]. Price 2s. net.
These are automatic writings of the usual spiritualistic type,
more intelligent than the average, but still of little intrinsic
value. It is a pity the writer should have chosen a pseudonym
almost certain to make difficulties for the bibliographer of the
future, though Sir Oliver Lodge's allusions to Stainton Moses in
his Foreword may succeed in preventing confusion.
George Lindsay Gordon, The Great Problem and the Evidence for its
Solution. Appreciation by Sir A. C. Doyle. 8vo, pp. 380,
two diagrams and 8 ill. London: Hutchinson & Co., Ltd. [1928].
Price 18s. net.
The busy reviewer is almost tempted to prepare a standard notice
that will serve for all the books of this type that proceed from
publishers' offices in a constant stream. There is scarcely any-
294 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jine, 1928
thing that could be said of this one that would not serve for
all the others, unless it were a reference to the innumerable mis-
prints and mis-spellings that deface it. We get the usual un-
critical historical and contemporary survey, the usual meaning-
less classification (including fourteen types of " evidence of a
future life," the fourteenth of which is " immunity or recovery
from snake bites "
[pp. 236-239]), and the usual spiritualistic
conclusions. Th. B.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Psychic Research. March, 1928. This number opens with an
article by Mr. J. Malcolm Bird on " Some Theoretical Aspects of
Psychical Research," which is the text of a lecture given by
Mr. Bird at the National Laboratory of Psychical Research last
autumn (also printed in the Brit. Jour, for Psych. Research.
Monsieur Rene Sudre has an article on Professor Richet's book
" The Sixth Sense," in which he criticises this title on the ground
that the assumption of anything which can be called a sixth
sense does not really help to explain psychical phenomena. M.
Sudre refers in particular to telepathy of the active and selective
type as being especially difficult to explain on any physiological
basis.
The Number contains a further instalment of Dr. Christian
Winther's Report on Mrs. Anna Rasmussen.
Mr. Price contributes an interesting summary of the accounts
given to him by various witnesses of events alleged to have
taken place at the " haimted " house in Battersea. The pheno-
mena which he was able to observe on his own three visits to the
house are also described with care, and seem to have differed
somewhat from anything that took place on other occasions. They
consisted chiefly in the discovery of small portable objects in
places occupied a short time previously, and it is interesting
to compare these phenomena with the rather similar ones which
occurred during the visit of Eleonore Zugun to Mr. Price's
Laboratory.
The British Journal of Psychical Research, Vol. i. No. 11 (Jan.-
Feb. 1928) contains an article by Mr. J. Malcolm Bird on " Some
Theoretical Aspects of Psychical Research," in which the author
discusses the possible bearing upon psychical phenomena of modern
June, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 295
theories of ether, hyperdimensionality, and Einstein's theory of
relativity.
Dr. R. J. Tillyard has an interesting article on " The Normal
Production of Psychic Gloves," in which he describes how a wax
glove similar to a psychic glove produced in his presence at a
sitting with Margery on May 1st, 1926, was produced by applying
a tourniquet to the subject's arm, so that the hand and wrist
were swollen and engorged with blood when dipped into the hot
wax ; after the glove had been formed, the tourniquet was removed,
and with the consequent reduction of the hand and wrist to their
normal size the removal of the wax glove was easily effected. It
is worth noting that this method was suggested to Dr. Jameson,
of Nelson, N.Z., by whom it was carried out, by the turgid appear-
ance of a thumb-cast taken from the psychic glove obtained at
the sitting with Margery. Dr. Tillyard discusses the bearing of
this discovery on the Margery phenomena, and concludes that " no
charge of fraud can be brought against any of the sitters at the
seance of May 1st, 1926, but that the new knowledge here dis-
closed makes the whole performance of " Walter " at this seance
of little evidential value in the establishment of the claim that
paraffin-wax gloves can be formed only by supernormal means."
The British Journal of Psychical Research. March-April 1928.
This Number opens with an article by Dr. Neville Whymant on
" Some Valiantine Sittings and Oriental Voices." The sittings
discussed in this paper are those of which Dr. Whymant gave
an account at a Private Meeting of this Society on Jvdy 22nd,
1927. The central point of interest is the apparent knowledge
of the Chinese language and of Chinese classical literature shown
by the " direct voice " speaking at the sittings.
There is a statement by Mrs. McConnel concerning communica-
tions received from her son David and a friend Rosalind, which
Mrs. McConnel believes to be connected with the " White Case
"
(reported in " The Bridge ").
Mrs. Leaning has an article on " Calculating Boys " with special
reference to the article on Louis Fleury by Dr. Osty in the
Revue Metapsychique, Nov.-Dec. 1927. H. de G. S.
Zeitschrift fiir Psychische Forschung, February and March, 1928.
Herr Macourek of Trebian brings to a close his account of some
recent experiences with Frau Silbert. Of these the most note-
296 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, 1928
worthy is this medium's alleged supernormal flight (described in
the January number) from Trebian to St. Nicolai and back,
twelve kilometres as the crow flies, coinciding with Frau Silbert's
disappearance or absence of eighty minutes' duration. Herr
Macourek's account is candid enough to permit the critical reader
to detect in it traces of collusion, one other person besides the
medium, and perhaps two, being possibly implicated. The incident
does not contribute favourably to the medium's reputation, and
in my opinion points in the direction of deliberate and elaborate
preparation beforehand of the whole performance. The alleged
flight itself reminds us of similar claims advanced by Mrs. Guppy-
Volckman in London in the seventies.
Prof. August Messer of Giessen has an interesting paper (un-
finished yet) on the " Riddle of Konnersreuth." A long list of
papers on this extraordinary case is given, and should be of value
to the student. Of much interest is the description by Dr. von
Aretin of the stigmatica's ecstasies and visions of the Passion
reproduced on pp. 74-76 (March number). A somewhat difierent
impression is, I think, produced on the reader by another quota-
tion where Dr. Gerlich (id. p. 79), who repeatedly observed
T. N. in September and October last, describes the mysterious
disappearance of a Host placed on the seeress's tongue by the
priest who was giving her the Blessed Sacrament. To Prof.
Messer it suggests telekinesis or dematerialisation {ibid.) ; I think the
repetition of such incidents is not desirable in the interests of
the voyante's reputation or prestige.
A case of a supposed premonitory dream by Prof. Dr. C. is
given and commented upon by Prof. Dr. Schroder on behalf of
the new Institut fur Metapsychikalische Forschung of Berlin-
Lichterfelde-Ost. I am not certain the amount of coincidence
is sufficiently striking to justify us in looking for an explanation
beyond chance.
The same author concludes his account of the phenomena of
Frau Rudloff. The February instalment begins by further " pro-
tocols," most of them at any rate quite inconclusive. I do not
wish, however, to minimise the fact that there are a few—
a
very few—incidents in which explanation by trickery is at first
sight more difficult. A report by Dr. Krallinger is then printed,
who investigated Frau Rudloii's " metagenetic " drawings on
mirrors, and says they are identical, as to the substance, to human
June, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 297
blood submitted when still in semi-liquid (feucht) state to high
temperature. Still it has not been possible to reproduce them
artificially in all their forms and parts. The origin of the " Meta-
austriche " in human blood submitted to the action of heat or
of similar agents seems to Dr. Krallinger in the highest degree
probable. Whether this " heat " has an origin external to the
substance or internal is wrapped in total darkness. The micro-
scopic study of the " Meta-austriche " has revealed many interest-
ing facts which cannot however be given in detail. On the whole
Dr. Krallinger's report (the final sentences suggest that he is a
believer in materialisation) is rather favourable to the authenticity
of the '"
mirror-drawings." This fact is interesting and should be
noted ; it can hardly outweigh however the utterly suspicious
appearance of the " drawings," nor the circumstance that, judging
by the " Protocols," the way in which they come into being is
completely inconclusive evidentially in nineteen cases out of twenty,
unless we rely on the testimony of all the three Rudloffs (Herr,
Frau and Fraulein).
Dr. Schroder is so convinced of the genuineness of the Rudlofl
spiegelphdnomenik that by way of a challenge he ofiers 1,000
marks (to be raised under certain circumstances to 5,000) to any
one who will obtain the same Meta-austriche whatever the con-
ditions. Both the February and March numbers of the review
are abundantly and excellently illustrated.
Dr. E. Mattiesen has the beginning of a paper on " the White
Case" as described in Miss Nea Walker's The Bridge: A case for
survival.
Zeitschrift fiir Psychische Forschung, April, 1928. Dr. Mattiesen
continues his examination of the " White Case " (we shall return
to it when finished). Dr. F. Harms has a paper on psycho-
metric experiments with Frau Lotte Plaat, daughter of Consul M. in
Oldenburg. The author's remarks show him to be by no means
devoid of some critical acumen, but the experiments narrated
appear to me to be absolutely worthless so far as the possession
by Frau Plaat of some " supernormal " power is concerned.
Professor Dr. August Messer discusses again Konnersreuth.
Various interesting incidents are mentioned, among them one
narrated by Dr. Gerlich, where Theresa Neumann seems to have
manifested clairvoyance so far as the contents of a silver crucifix
298 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, 1928
(containing relics) were concerned. This clairvoyance may, how-
ever, be explained by thought-transference from a Carmelite monk
who had brought the crucifix and presumably knew its contents.
Konnersreuth again forms the subject of a short paper by Dr.
Eduard Aigner. In a footnote the editor of the Zeitschrift says with
reference to statements which appeared in two Konnersreuth papers
that the Friday ecstacies and bleedings ceased towards the end
of 1927 and that T. N. is taking food again. These statements
are in contradiction with information derived from other sources.
Professor Max Selling discusses " Action at a Distance." Goethe
appears to have believed in such Fernwirken between inaniinate
objects ! A poet of genius may be permitted to indulge in such
speculations ; we should be inexcusable if we complicated in this
way a problem already sufficiently abstruse.
Professor Dr. Schroder discusses a possibly veridical dream
which occurred to a Frau D. on 29th November, 1927. May I be
permitted to utter a respectful caveat against dreams being used as
evidence for supernormal perception, at least as a general rule ?
Zeitschrift filr Parapsychologie, April, 1928. This number begins
with a " parapsychological " study of Dr. G. Pagenstecher's
(Mexico) on " Clairvoyance in the past, present and future,"' as
exemplified in his subject and " highly esteemed friend " Senora
Maria R. de Z}
Dr. Mattiesen prints an account of some supernormal—in his
opinion—occurrences connected with the death by accident of a
young man, Dr. J. F. L. These occurrences do not seem to
me peculiarly striking. Professor Dr. Erich Stern contributes a
valuable paper on the " Problem of fortuitous coincidence
"
(Ztifall). He rightly insists on the importance of some cases—or
categories of cases—where Zufall is only an apparent explanation
and where the true explanation is of a different nature. But in
my ojDinion this is not the real question at issue. Will chance
coincidence explain some—or many—of the incidents which Psychi-
cal Researchers are wont to put down to supernormal factors
(in medium's utterances for instance) ? I answer this question in
the affirmative ; to it Dr. Stern's article supplies no answer.
i.See Proc. Am.S.P.R., Vols, xv., xvi., Jour. S.P.R., Vol. xxi., p. 216,
and Dr. Pagenstecher's recent book, Die Geheimnisse der Psychometrie oder :
Hellsehen in der VergangenTieit.
June, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 299
Professor Dr. Verweyen of Bonn has a paper on his experiences
" with less known mediums." The medium Dagma " comes last
in the series. Prof. Verweyen appears to have been thoroughly
satisfied with the results of her performances (of a clairvoyant
"
character) in a public hall, in the presence of an impresario,"
and considers quite natural her subsequent failure when tested
at a private sitting.
Dr. Rudolf Tischner has a valuable- article, as usual, on Mesmer's
importance for " metapsychics " ; and a short paper by Dr. Aigner
very opportunely reminds us—which some are apt to forget—that
the problem of the divining rod has by no means been definitively
solved in the affirmative sense. He reproduces Prof. Marbe's
(of Wiirzburg) suggestions that would-be professional dowsers
should be at first properly tested by competent official organs, and
quotes sentences of this scientist which seem to imply a very
sceptical attitude ; the latter is the more impressive as the Pro-
fessor's impartiality seems particularly beyond doubt.
The Countess Wassilko-Serecki contributes the account of a
sitting with her protegee Eleonore Zugun in Vienna on 16th May,
1927. Several university professors and other savants were
present, among them Prof. Hans Thirring. The seance may be
described—loosely speaking—as rather a good one. The Countess
was absent part of the time, many of the (usual) phenomena "
occurring while she was away.
Studienrat R. Lambert prints in Zeiten und Vdlker (Stuttgart),
March and April, 1928, a short but valuable paper on the present
state of " Occult Researches." Reference is made to the S.P.R.
Census of Hallucinations of 1889-1892. The experiments with
Ludwig Kahn are discussed at—relative—length. To the physical
phenomena and materialisations a little more than a page is
devoted. Insistence is laid on the Naples experiments with
Eusapia in 1908 by a " committee of conjurers sent by the
English S.P.R." It is not the first time I have seen in German
publications Messrs. Feilding, Carrington and Baggally designated
as Taschenspieler, which designation seems to me to be of some-
what doubtful correctness.
Zeitschrift filr kritischen Okkultismus, III. Band, 1 Heft. Dr.
Albert Hellwig of Potsdam, that arch-enemy of all Kriminal-
300 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, 1928
telepathen, demolishes the evidence for the discovery through
clairvoyance of a dead body at Rothenstein, Thuringia.
Count Klinckowstroem prints an interesting paper on " Pseudo-
telepathy " in the past. He begins by a work published by Porta
in Naples in 1567 and by Reginald Scot's Discovery of Witchcraft
(London, 1587), ending with some contemporary performances.
Of peculiar interest is the case of the Hungarian couple K.
exposed a few years ago by Drs. Dessoir and Moll.
Dr. Richard Baerwald discusses again " Clairvoyance and Hyper-
aesthesia " a propos of Dr. Tischner's Fernfiihlen und Mesmerismus
{Exteriorisation der Sensihilitdt) (Munich, J. F. Bergmann, 1925) and
Prof. Christoph Schroeder's Grundversuche auf dem Gebiete der
psychischen Grenzwissenschaften (Berlin, 1927). Dr. Baerwald's
position is well known :
" Hellsehen " does not exist, and apparent
clairvoyance is to be explained by telepathy and acuity of sense-
perception (both, he will permit me to point out, strained almost
to breaking point). Before adopting either hypothesis I should
like to be more certain than, I confess, I am of the genuineness
of the facts themselves.
Dr. Wendler (Erlangen) discusses the results obtained by an
electrician, E. K. Miiller, of Zurich, who has been investigating
supposed " emanations " from the human body. These investiga-
tions have impressed him rather favourably, and he is willing to
admit such an " emanation " at least as a working hypothesis
(pp. 73-77).
Dr. Hans Rosenbusch (who claims, as is known, to have ex-
posed in Munich both Bleonore Zugun and the Countess Wassilko)
vigorously criticises the Price report on the Roumanian peasant
girl (Proceedings of the National Laboratory of Psychical Research,
Vol. I., January 1927, Part I.) and the Zimmer-Korber-Bruck-
Kroner-Doblin report printed in the May number (1927) of Zeit-
schrift fur Parapsychologie.
" Spirit-materialisations experimentally tested " is the singularly
inappropriate title of a paper by Prof. Dr. Anton Seitz of Munich.
The writer speaks in it chiefly of apparitions in human form and
very little of " materialisation." He maintains that the animistic
hypothesis combined with " intuitional vision " and " radioidal
"
capacities is sufficient to explain " all the facts." I do not
know . . . nor, strictly speaking, does Geheim-Regierungsrat Dr.
Seitz. P.-P.-S.
No. 447.—Vol. XXIV. July, 1928.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
DENISON HOUSE, 296 VAUXHALL BRIDGE ROAD,
LONDON, S.W.I,
ON
MONDAY, JULY i6th, 1928, ^/ 8.30 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" L'accord telepathique
"
WILL BE READ IN FRENCH BY
. Monsieur RENE WARCOLLIER
f The paper will be illustrated by lantern slides and a short abstract in English
zvill he available ).
N.B. — Visitors will be adtnitied on prodiiclion of an invifa/ion card
signed by a Member or Associate. Me77ibers and Associates will be admitted
on signing their names at the door.
302 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1928
The Rooms of the Society at 31 Tavistock Square, London,
W.C, will te closed after Tuesday, July 31st, until Monday,
September 10th. Correspondence will be forwarded to the
staff during this time. The next number of the "Journal"
will be issued in October.
NEW MEMBERS.
Buist, Mrs.. 37 St. James' Place, Loudon, S.W. 1.
Foster-Barham, Mrs., Prior's Mead, EectoryRoad, Burnham-on-Sea.
McConiiel, Mrs. D. R., Don Pedro Dam, La Grange, California, U.S.A.
Shann, Edward Thornhill, 19 Buckland Crescent, London, N.W. 3.
St. Aubyn, Hon. Mrs., 2 Tedworth Square, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Wilkinson. Mrs., Ardanoir, Foynes, Co. Limerick, Ireland.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 219th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C, on Wednesday, June 6th, 1928, at
3 p.m., Mrs. Henry Sidgwick in the chair. There were also
present: Mr. W. R. Bousfield, Professor E. R. Dodds, Mr. J.
Arthiu: Hill, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr.
W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, and
Dr. V. J. WooUey ;
also, Mr. Theodore Besterman, Hon.
Librarian.
The Minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as
correct.
Six neAv members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for May, 1928, were presented and
taken as read.
Arrangements for the Requisitioned Meeting were considered,
and it was decided to hold the Meeting on Wednesday,
July 18th, at 3.30 p.m., and send a notice to that efJect to
all Members of the Society.
On the proposal of Mr. W. H. Salter, seconded by Mr. S. C.
Scott, the following resolution was passed unanimously :
" That a Committee be appointed to consider the present
working of the Articles of Association and what, if any, altera-
tions are reqiiired."
JrLT, 1928 Meetinqs
On the proposal of Mr. W. H. Salter, seconded by Dr. V. J.
Woolley, the following resolution also was passed unanimously :
" That the above Committee do consist of : Mr. W. R.
Bousfield, the Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. Ct. W. Lambert,
Mr. S. C. Scott and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick ; with power to add
to their number."
PEIVATE MEETING.
The 96th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the
Rooms of the Society, 31 Tavistock Square, W.C., on Wednesday,
June 6th, 1928, at 5 p.m., Dr.. V. J. Woolley in the chair.
Mr. Theodore Besterman read a paper on " The Evocation of
the Dead in Madagascar," which will, it is hoped, be published
later in the Proceedings. It was followed by discussion and
interesting accounts of experiences by some of the members
present.
CASE.
L. 1285. Information Obtained at a Trance-Sitting on
Matters Unknown to the Sitter.
We have received from Mr. A. G. Hoseason, who has been for
many years a Member of the Society, the following case in
which veridical information was given to him at a sitting w^ith
Mrs. Leonard concerning matters of which he had no normal
knowledge at the time. The sitting took place on February
16, 1928, the purporting communicator being Mr. Hoseason's
wife. The first report of the incident was contained in a letter
from Mr. Hoseason to the Secretary, Miss Newton, as follows :
AfHl 10, 1928.
... I enclose you a resume of a test given me months ago by
my wife. I get them regularly, but this one might interest you.
I might mention I have sat almost monthly with one of the best
mediums in the world for now over eleven years (and many others
in the meantime, say for the first six years since 1917), and have
of course scores of notes and many wonderful private home
records.
304 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1928
The letters I enclose are from my cousin Lizzie, who lives iu
Lame, North of Ireland, and my sittings are always in London. . .
A. Gr. HOSEASON.
With this letter was enclosed the following statement
:
Afril 10, 1928.
At sitting on February 16, 1928, I asked my wife to give me
something evidential, and the message was (as put in my notes) r
" Lizzie wants more towels—also water is coming into room near
a bed."
I immediately wrote off to Ireland, and I enclose you her letter
to me. Of course I knew nothing of these things at all. I con-
sider it a wonderful test. I have since had another one, which
was, " Lizzie has broken an old blue plate," not in two, but in
many pieces. I wrote at once, received reply, " Yes, almost uu-
mendable." Simple things, but all the more convincing, at least
to me.
These are merely tests asked for. The record of sittings I do
not mention, as it is all home life, and no interest to any one.
Please note my cousin lives 400 miles from London. A. Gr. H.
With this was also enclosed a letter to Mr. Hoseason from
his cousin in Larne, as follows :
February 20th, 1928.
Your letter to hand on Saturday. What came through to you
is truly marvellous, showing to us again how really and truly
close to us my dearly beloved cousin Lizzie is. Not an hour
before your letter came in at midday on Saturday I had said to
Kathleen to bring a few towels from Hamilton's, where there is a
sale going on. In our bedroom the paper round the top of the
bay and down the side is quite wet. We have been waiting for
the McI. family . . . bringing home their long ladders to find out
the cause of the damp coming through. . . .
Cousin Lizzie.
In reply to the above communications the Hon. Secretary,
Mr. W. H. Salter, wrote to Mr. Hoseason on April 30th, put-
ting the following questions :
We should be very glad to know the name of the medium to
whom you refer, on the understanding that this will not be printed
July, 1928 Gase 305
without your previous consent. Would you also kindly say
whether you had been in Larne recently, and whether before the
sitting in question you had any knowledge of the damp coming
through your cousin's house ?
At previous sittings with the same medium had there been any
references to your cousin Lizzie and her affairs, and have you at
any time spoken to this medium, when out of trance, about your
cousin Lizzie ? . . . W. H. Salter.
In reply to this letter IVIr. Hoseason wrote as follows :
May 3, 1928.
In reply to yours of April 30th :
1. The name of the medium I have sat with for many years is
Mrs. Osborne Leonard. ...
2. I have not been in Larne for 7 or 8 years.
3. As I explained to you, in my letter, I had no knowledge of
any damp coming through my cousin's house ; if I had, I should
not have sent it to you.
4. In all sittings with Mrs. Osborne Leonard, for the past 11
years, I have never discussed anything I have had through ;
my
only comment to her at any time is very occasionally I may
say—I have had a good sitting to-day or a poor one, nothing more.
5. I have no recollection at any time mentioning my cousin's
name to her.
Feda always comes through for about 40 minutes, and then my
wife controls Mrs. Leonard for about 20 minutes. Our conversa-
tions are always on home matters, relations, and friends.
At the sitting sent you I asked my wife to give me a " test,"
and that was the test I sent to you. I have since that sitting
asked twice for tests, and have had one from Ireland {re blue
plate), which came exactly, and one for a friend in Birmingham
asked for 3 months ago.—True.
Anything further [I shall be] pleased to give you. I might
mention I always take rough notes at the sittings, all of which I
have kept the last 10 years. A. 6. Hoseason.
Mr. Hoseason has also sent us a photograph (taken, he tells
us, in March 1928) of the room in his cousin's house at
Larne, showing the damp on the wall.
306 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1928
NOTE ON THE GUNTHER-GEFFERS CASE.
A YEAR ago, on May 12th, 1927, Frau Giinther-Geffers of Konigsberg,.
East Prussia, a professional clairvoyante and Kriminaltelepath, was
acquitted on the charge of fraud by the Insterburg tribunal
{erweiterte Schoffengericht)
.
The Stadtsanwalt having appealed against this sentence, the case
has been tried again, also at Insterburg, and ended again with an
acquittal on May 12th.
Much evidence attesting the clairvoyante's alleged powers in
discovering thefts, dead bodies, etc., was produced before the
tribunal and apparently considerably imjjressed the judges. Where-
upon at a certain stage of the proceedings the Stadtsanwalt offered
to Avithdraw his appeal against the previous sentence. To this
Frau Gimther-GefEers' counsel objected, insisting on a complete
vindication of his client, and—apparently—also hoping that the
tribunal would assert in its sentence the reality of the clairvoyante's
powers. This the tribunal has not done, but Frau G.-G. and a
detective closely connected with her have been acquitted once
more.
Many interesting incidents happened in the course of the triaL
Twice a regular experiment was instituted with the object of
testing Frau G.-G.'s alleged supernormal faculties. In the first case
she appears to have attained a certain—possibly a considerable
—
measure of success, but according to our standards the conditions
of the experiment can hardly be called evidentially cogent, since
on the most vital point some doubt seems to prevail. Thus Dr.
Albert Hellwig of Potsdam (who is, I ought perhaps to add, pro-
foundly inimical to professional clairvoyants) asserts in the Frank-
furter Zeitung of May 17th (2nd morning edition) that it seems by
no means proved that Frau G.-G. did give the name " von
Reibnitz " (the victim of a theft not cleared up at the time), as
had been alleged in some newspapers. If doubt is permissible on
so crucial a point, the conditions of the experiment may well have
been somewhat inadequate.
A second and apparently flawless experiment instituted by Prof.
Dessoir was negative as to its result. Frau G.-G. failed to
"read" any of the words written on slips of paper which had
been put into a securely closed box, and the word vampyr which
was spelt out by her did not correspond to the contents of any
July, 19i'8 Case 307
of the slips. These contents, it should be noted, were unknown to
those present. This result would seem at first sight to strengthen
the position of those who—like Herr Albert Hofmann in the
Kolnische Zeitung of May 17th, morning edition—see in Frau G.-G.'s
alleged clairvoyance only thought-transference, which according to
Heir Hofmann is so common in the trance state (?)
The experts commissioned by the tribunal who examined Frau
Giinther-CTeffers' condition preferred to abstain from expressing an
opinion as to the genuineness or otherwise of her trance.
The present note, it should be added, is avowedly of a pre-
liminary nature. The undersigned may be permitted, however, to
express his satisfaction as to the result of the Insterburg trial,
whether Frau Gr.-G. is an authentic clairvoyante or not. Such
trials seem to me a manifestation of that " grandmotherly legis-
lation which is not invariably an unmitigated boon and are
likely—as in the present instance—to have consequences altogether
different from those originally contemplated. The lesson should
not be lost. P.-P.-S.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Zeitschrift fiir kritischen Okkiiltismus, III. Band, 2 Heft. This
number is, we are informed, the last one of this Review, but the
hope is held out to us of the foundation of a German Society on
the model of our S.P.R., thus affording the basis of a truly
neutral publication.
Meanwhile the number begins with new evidence re the Schneider
case. This evidence first comprises an account of an exposure
of Willi's—hitherto unknown—at Braunau in 1920. The case is
certainly a bad one, since it shows elaborate preparation (it was
ascertained that Willi wore .socks with openings at the ends
allowing the toes free play !). An account of an exposure of
Riidi's then follows, not quite as bad perhaps, after which Count
Klinckowstroem narrates in detail Dr. Prince's most valuable
experiences with the same medium.
The next paper is entitled " The Bisson Catastrophe," which
title is perhaps a little exaggerated. As yet (April) there has
been no cataclysm, though certain new facts have come to light
which show us the protectress of Marthe Beraud (" Eva Carriere "),
as playing a part still more puzzling than before. A concentric
attack is made on her by Father Norbert Briihl of Trier and Count
.308 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1928
Klinckowstroem. (For a reply by Prof. Ricliet, see Zeitschrift fiir
Parapsychologie for May 1928, reviewed below, -p. 309.)
The present writer has a paper on his curriculum vitae as a
Psychical Researcher from 1887 to 1923. Among the positive
incidents narrated the melting away of a " spirit-hand " in the
late F. W. H. Myers's grasp at a sitting with Williams (as re-
lated to me by Myers in 1892) seems to me to be by far the most
noteworthy.
Dr. Otto Groldmann has a paper on two Saxon clairvoyantes
to whom the German authorities have repeatedly applied to clear
up crimes. Dr. Goldmann denies that there is clairvoyance, but
admits thought-transference, which he says may be dangerous as
apt to confirm false suspicions against innocent people.
Dr. Carl Bruck, of Berlin, discusses an alleged case of premoni-
tion connected with a journey to Greece. The incident is de-
scribed at very great length, but I am not sure that the coinci-
dence is not fortuitous. Prevision of the future is so extra-
ordinary that we are morally entitled to have more stringent
canons of evidence for premonition than for alleged telepathy.
Dr. Rosenbusch replies to Countess Wassilko's defence in
Zeitschrift fiir Parapsychologie. Many will regret that the decisions
of two Bavarian courts of law have not permitted this instructive
dispute to come up before an audience far more numerous than the
readers of a few German periodicals. A great pity the matter has
not thus been cleared up, but the fault lies not with the Countess.
A series of short notes follows, chiefly by Count Klinckowstroem.
In one of them the public performances of a certain Paul Diebel,
who pretended inter alia to reproduce Therese Neumann's stigma-
tisation, are discussed. (He has since confessed to obtaining these
results by /ia/[/"-conjuring methods.) In another note the same
author deals with the alleged mediumship (physical) of Karl
Kraus, who, under the name of Karl Weber, was the subject of a
paper by Dr. v. Schrenck-Notzing at the Paris Congress.^ It
appears that Kraus is going to publish a pamphlet describing
how he bamboozled the Munich investigators. Of course con-
fession of deception, unless supported by positive and concrete
evidence, is of little value.
^
^S.P.B. Journal, November 1927, p. 133.
^ From information received later it appears doubtful whether the book will be
published. This is much to be regretted.
JULT, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 309
An account of a premonitory apparition printed in a Vienna
paper prompts the same author (Count Kl.) to comment very
sensibly on the evidential worthlessness of such narratives. A
German " sister-society " should, he says, follow in this respect
the example of the S.P.R. We heartily concur in this wish. In
the spontaneous sphere alone such a society could do plenty of
useful work, and save from oblivion many remarkable facts.
It is to be wished also that it will abstain from personal polemics
which, it must be confessed, were at times a little too conspicuous
in the defunct Zeitschrift.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, May, 1928.
The piece de resistance of this number is—to me—Prof. Richet's
letter to Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing in answer to Count Klinckow-
stroem's Bissou article in the last number of the Zeitschrift fiir
Kritischen Okkultismus. In this letter Prof. Richet maintains the
genuineness both of the first series of his experiments with Eva
Carriere—Marthe Beraud—(obviously those at Algiers are meant),
and of the later. He also was present, he says, at some of the
seances arranged by Dr. von Schrenck and Mme. Bisson, and
maintains that he can testify to the accurate character of the
experiments.^
A further instalment of Dr. Pagenstecher's work on his Mexican
voyante is given.
In a long and interesting paper Dr. v. Schrenck-Notzing dis-
cusses the Augustenstrasse Poltergeist (Munich, beginning of 1927).
The maid Therese Winklhofer (the supposed medium) subsequently
made a complete confession and was imprisoned by the police for
fourteen days (without trial). Dr. v. Schrenck, Dr. R. Tischner,
and Herr Hildebrandt, a writer, being members of a Commission
appointed by the Munich Society for Metapsychical Research to
investigate this Spul; assert that in spite of the confession some
of the phenomena (in particular some throwings of objects wit-
nessed by three persons in the morning of January 15th, 1927)
remain inexplicable by fraud.
Some other Poltergeist phenomena occurring at Dillingen, in Saar,
are briefly narrated by Herr Kulas.
Professor August Messer has a paper on the theoretical basis of
knowledge in the domain of " parapsychological " and " para-
physical " phenomena.
^ We hope to print further notes on this controversy in the autumn.
310 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1928
In " Kleine Mitteilungen " (Prof. Richet's letter appears in this
section) mention is made of the death of Prof. Haraldur Nielsson
of Iceland and of Eleonore Ziigun's return to Rumania, where,
we are told, thanks to the care bestowed on her by Countess
Wassilko, she will have an "excellent position" in a Frisiersalon.
Studienrat Lambert reviews Parts 102 and 103 of the S.P.R.
Proceedings. Speaking of the One crowded hour of glorious life
cross-correspondence, he says he agrees with Mr. Hall that this
cross-correspondence proves absolutely nothing as to survival and
hardly anything for telepathy. Nor does he see anything more
than fortuitous coincidences in the " Master Builder."' Studienrat
Lambert is equally sceptical as to the result of the experiment in.
pseudo-scripts undertaken by Mr. Salter. " It may be asked
whether Mr. Salter, whose wife takes part in the mediumistic cross-
correspondences, has attempted to discover pseudo-correspondences
with the same zeal which Piddington manifests when on the hunt
after alleged mediumistic ones. Most probably this was not the
case. Mr. Salter's good faith (I value him highly) is not ia
question, it goes without saying ; unconscious hindrances may have
prevented him from finding out coincidences which Mr. Piddington.
would have detected in the case of so-called genuine cross-
correspondences. This question cannot be settled, since all the
pseudo-scripts have not been published."
Revue M'kapsychique, March-April, 1928.
Dr. Osty has a long and profusely illustrated paper on BL
Marjan Gruzewski, a Pole, born in Wilno in September 1898, who
without, it is asserted, having learnt either drawing or painting,
has shown himself to be both a painter and a draughtsman when
in a somnambulistic state, revealing apparently an innate knowledge
of various technical details to which he had never paid attention
before. The case is striking and interesting, but seems to me to
be to some extent vitiated by the following consideration. Before
beginning to paint and draw in a state of trance M. Gruzewski,
we are told, gave a great many seances for telekinesis and ma-
terialisation. The materialised hands, he says, which moved objects
were projected generally out of his arm (p. 87). I wonder if after
such assertions we may logically accept such unverifiable state-
ments as M. Gruzewski chooses to make about himself. It is
obvious, I think, that unverified assertions made by a man
July, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 311
having produced " phenomena " whose genuineness is open to
grave doubts are of little value evidentially. On the other
haiad, in the present case we have evidence (pp. 99, 100,
119 footnote) that, unlike M. Augustin Lesage (May Journal
S.P.R. p. 265) M. Gruzewski ccm draw, even paint, in total
darkness, and in justice to him this circumstance must not be
lost sight of.
In the Chronique M. Maurice Maire speaks very warmly of Prof.
Driesch apropos of the latter's sixtieth anniversary. In a note on
the Konnersreuth stigmatica he expresses the opinion that Theresa
Neumann's phenomena have not yet been controlled in an ade-
quately scientific way and suggests a twenty-eight days' observa-
tion under stringent conditions of T. N.'s alleged fasting. M. Maire
further analyses the Etude's article on dowsing (see May Journal)
and draws the conclusion that the Roman Catholic Church now
admits clairvoyance, after which we may expect that this will be
the case for other metapsychical phenomena too. It would have
been more exact to point out that two or three centuries ago such
performances as those of the French priests referred to would have
been drastically " discouraged," whilst now they are eulogised by
a strictly Roman Catholic review.
M. de Vesme has the beginning of a long paper on the
" legend " of collective hallucination in connection with the rope
trick. His attitude seems to be entirely negative. I propose to
return to his interesting study when it is finished, contenting
myself meanwhile with the remark that I know at first hand of
at least three cases of " fakir " performances which seem to ex-
clude trickery, though obviously not hallucination.
Zeitschrift filr Psychische Forsckung, May, 1928.
Dr. Hohenwarter of Klagenfurt, Carinthia, Austria, has an
enthusiastic paper on Frau Marie Silbert, whom he visited at
Easter. Various phenomena are described of the usual Silbertian
type (raps, also touches and direct writing under the table). The
idea that the latter " manifestations " might have been produced
by the medium's feet apparently does not even occur to the
writer. Dr. Hohenwarter is, by the way, a Roman Catholic priest,
and his enthusiastic attitude (he compares Frau Silbert and
Theresa Neumann !) makes him a rarissima avis indeed. He quotes
by the way a characteristic passage from Professor Verweyen's
SI 2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1928
ProUeme des Mediumismus (p. 210), which shows that this lady
has warm friends among savants too : the learned Professor thinks
the fact that she was born on Christmas night symbolical of her
life ! That such admirers should profoundly resent any suspicions
cast on the object of their admiration is of course but natural
;
but of what value, it may be asked, is their evidence 1
Professor Dr. August Messer concludes his paper on the " Kon-
nersreuth riddle." A few pages are devoted to the " scientific
"
attempts at an explanation of the phenomena, many extraordinary
instances of auto-suggestion and suggestion are quoted (the evi-
dential character of some of them leaves, I am afraid, much to
be desired), and the conclusion is drawn that even supposing all
the accounts about Theresa Neumann were to correspond with
actual fact. Science is by no means bound to lay down its arms.
The attitude of the Roman Catholic Church towards " miracles
"
in general and the Konnersreuth occurrences in particular is then
discussed. We are told (p. 147) that " very influential voices
"
are now heard anxious to induce that Church to modify its cautious
attitude towards the Bavarian seeress. (That such voices should
be heard in the present stage of the controversy is surely charac-
teristic.) As Prof. Messer justly points out, a decision would have
been much easier for the Roman Catholic Church were Professor
Virchow's famous alternative :
" Fraud or Miracle still up to
date. As the matter now stands, he maintains, it may be asked
whether a definition of .
such phenomena however unusual as
" miracles " will not be objected to by Science in principle. For
surely one ought to know all natural laws without any exception
in order to state definitively whether a given fact can or cannot
be explained by them. Such knowledge seems, however, inaccessible
to us.
Professor Verweyen has a paper on "Materialistic and ' Idealistic
Mediumship," and Dr. Zeller prints a note on the late Professor
Haraldur Nielsson of Iceland (died March 12th).
Zagadnienia Metafsychiczne, No. 17-18, 1928.
Dr. Switkowski has a paper on hypnotism and magnetism, being
a paper read before the Lwow Metapsychical Society.
M. Rzewuski answers M. Gralski, the author of a recent article
on astrology from the standpoint of modern physics and meta-
psychics. Whilst the first author had maintained the exclusive
July, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 313
value of astrology for knowing the future, M. Rzewuski considers
astrology iu this respect as valueless.
M. Prosper Szmurlo prints his paper " On Research of Indicia
of Metapsychical Faculties " (read at the Paris Congress in
September-October last), and which will no doubt appear in due
course in the forthcoming report on the Congress.
Two protocols follow of seances given to the Warsaw Psycho-
Physical Society by M. Radwan-Radziszewski, a painter claiming
to paint unconsciously in a state of auto-hypnosis. At the second
sitting M. Szmurlo suggests to M. R. to play a certain part^
which is performed by M. R. very successfully.
Dr. Habdank prints again " revelations " obtained through the
medium Mme. Domanska. Dr. Ochorowicz and the writers Przy-
byszewski and Raymont are the communicators.
A long account is reproduced from the Gazeta Poranna describing
some spontaneous physical phenomena investigated in March last
by M. Aleksander Kuczera, a judge of Sambor. The phenomena
occurred at Skwarzawa Nowa, near Zolkwia, iu a peasant's house.
The phenomena were of the usual type : telekinesis, also apporfs,
the latter apparently also in accordance with the wishes expressed
by the judge (a little money!). M. Kuczera, however, was ob-
serving the phenomena under conditions which must have strongly
resembled those prevailing during the Crawford investigation at
Belfast. May we express the hope that the Polish " metapsy-
chical " societies, seemingly so numerous, will investigate the case^
be it only retrospectively, so that we should have in our possession
evidence seriously corroborative of Judge Kuczera's account in the
Gazeta Poranna—or disproving it ? A thorough investigation of
even a few spontaneous cases is likely to be much more fruitful
than even sittings with M. Radziszewski or Mme. Domanska's
" revelations " !
Revue Spirite beige, March and April, 1928. M. J. Thiebaut
has two further articles on the Mantes seances. The existence
of suspicious circumstances (" anomalies ") is recognised, and the
wife of a foreign professor is quoted as stating categorically that
all the manifestations witnessed by her were fraudulent in her
opinion. M. Thiebaut, however, has no doubt of their authenticity,
the aforesaid " anomalies " being explained away as follows :
" The atomistic architecture of the ectoplasma is affected by the
514 Journal of Society fur Psychical Research July. i'.)28
variations of gyroscopic whirlpools which the spirit is unable to
•control." That the medium Blaise cannot always have been
identical with " Madeleine " (a materialised spirit) is indeed
•obvious, but the hypothesis of a confederate, if not confederates,
irresistibly suggests itself. The most extraordinary feature of the
whole case is of course the persistent recognition by Mme Alex-
andre of her deceased daughter (Madeleine) ; but this is a psycho-
logical not a " metapsychical " enigma.
Mercure de France, 15th April, 1928. M. Rene Sudre has a
paper on the Paris Congress (September-October 1927). He
thinks Herr Karl Krall's contributions to this Congress the most
valuable of all. He notes with apparent regret that in spite of
the wish of a minority of Congressists the Congress failed to
follow the example of that of Warsaw in establishing a clean-
cut line of demarcation between " metapsychics " and spiritualism,
to which, he thinks, the attitude assumed by Prof. Richet and
Olivier Lodge {sic), " the invisible leader of the English delegation,"
and Prof. Driesch chiefly contributed. M. Sudre still seems
extremely anxious to segregate " metapsychics " from the spirit
hypothesis, but in my opinion he is labouring under a miscon-
ception. I do not think that, as pointed out by M. Sudre, no
•other member of the French Universite than Prof. Richet took
part in the Congress because " metapsychics have not yet broken
•off deliberately from scenes of possession." A spirit hypo-
thesis based on thoroughly established facts can be no deterrent
to scientific men worthy of the name. It is such facts we want
;
and when we have got them
—
if we have got them—we need not
be afraid of the thesis of fost-mortem action. " Metapsychics
"
may be much more comj^romised by thorough materialists or
monists operating with " experiments " or " observations
""
un-
worthy of attention. P.-P.-S.
Bulletin No. IX of the Boston Society for Psychical Research, April
1928, pp. 80. In this Bulletin, entitled " Evidential Incidents," are
published accounts, gradually accumulated by the Boston Society,
•of a number of more or less " evidential " incidents of a very
miscellaneous character, recorded by twelve different persons
—
some of the recorders describing more than one incident. The
•experiences dealt with range from coincidental hallucinations,
impressions, and dreams, to haunted houses and communications
JcLY, 1928 Notefi on Periodicals 315
through mediums or the ouija board. They vary considerably
in interest and in evidential value, and to give a full account, or
useful analysis, or detailed criticism, would take too much space.
We will only say, therefore, that in the case of most of them we
feel the B.S.P.R. has done well to publish them, and that per.sons
interested in psychical research will study them with profit.
E. M. S.
Psychic Science, April, 1928.
This number opens with an article by Sir A. Conan Doyle on
" Thomas Lake Harris : A Strange Prophet."' Mr. F. von Reuter
discusses Baron von Schrenck-Notzing's views on the " Origin of
the Phenomena of Materialisation." He gives a number of quo-
tations from Dr. von Schrenck's report on the sittings with Eva
C. to show that he " inclines towards a rejection of the spiritistic
theory in favour of the psycho-dynamical conception.'" The article
is not concerned with the genuineness of the phenomena, which is
taken for granted. Mr. von Reuter also gives an account of some
sittings in which he recently took part in Dr. von Schrenck's
laboratory with four mediums, the brothers Schneider, Blandina T.,
and Oscar S. The writer is himself convinced of the absolutely
fraud-proof nature of the conditions obtaining at these sittings ;
his report, however, is only a resume of what occurred, not suffi-
ciently detailed to enable those who have not witnessed the
phenomena to form a conclusion.
The article ends with a note on the accusation of fraud brought
against the Schneider brothers by Mr. Vinton.
Mr. Warwick has a further article on his experiments with Mrs.
Deane, in which slate-writing phei;omena were obtained. The
article includes a description of two pieces of apparatus devised
by Mr. Warwick for use at sittings for physical phenomena. It
might be suggested that conditions would be still further improved
by the use (for levitation phenomena) of a table which lends itself
less obviously to fraudulent manipulation than the one depicted
on p. 54.
There is a short account by Mr. B. M. Grodsal of some sittings
with Senorita Corrales of Costa Rica, at which direct voice
phenomena " are said to have been observed, and a report by
Mrs. McKenzie on sittings with a 'Californian " voice-medium,"
Mrs. Estelle White.
316 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July, 1928
Psychic Research, April, 1928.
This number contains further instalments of the articles on
" Teleplasmic Thumb-prints " (by E. E. Dudley and J. Malcolm
Bird), and " Experimental Enquiries into Telekinesis " (by Prof.
Christian Winther).
Dr. Neville Whymant's article on " Some Valiantine Sittings and
Oriental Voices " is reprinted from the British Journal of Psychical
Research, March-April, 1928.
M. Rene Sudre has an article on " The Psychic Faculty in the
Medical Field," in which he gives an account of an investigation
of the alleged cures effected by a professional magnetiser, Mme.
G-ermaiae of Nancy. The conclusion to which M. Sudre comes is
that there is no evidence for the special " emanation " whereby
Mme. Germaine alleges that she effects her cures ; such success as
she obtains is probably due to suggestion. M. Sudre regards the
question of the existence of some unknown form of human radia-
tion as one which is still open, but can be proved only by labora-
tory experiment. H. de G. S.
INVITATION TO JOIN IN EXPEEIMENTS IN LONG
DISTANCE TELEPATHY.
As some of our members know, series of experiments in long
distance telepathy have been carried on since last autumn
between a small group of members who act as agents and a
number of persons in different parts of the United Kingdom
and elsewhere who co-operate as percipients.
Mr. S. G. Soal, who is in charge of these experiments, is
anxious to increase the number of percijDients, and, if possible,
to include among them automatists, and also persons who are
blind. We should be grateful to Members and Associates-
who would themselves take part regularly in the experiments,
or who would introduce others who would be interested
whether members of the Society or not. Mr. Soal would be
glad to. receive the names and addresses of willing co-operators
now, in order to make arrangements for the third series of
experiments which will begin in the autumn.
Members who would be interested in seeing the preliminary
reports of the first and second series may read them in the
Library.
No. 448 —Vol. XXIV. ' •
Octobee, 1928.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON. W.C. i,
ON
WEDISIESBAY, Octoher 24th, 1928, ai 5 p.m.,
WHEN A TAPER ENTITLED
" Some Automatic Scripts purporting to be inspired
by a Victorian Poet and Novelist
"
WILL BE READ,
Part I. : By W. H. SALTER.
Part II. : By S. G. SOAL.
N.B.
—
JVo Tickets of Admission are issuedfor this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
318 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1928
NEW MEMBERS.
De Kakucs, Baroness, 11 Cheyne Court, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
De Mercado, Mrs., Belmont, Cross Roads, Jamaica.
Mounsey-Wood, Mrs. E. L., 41a Golders Way, Golders Green,
London, N.W. 11.
Pierce, Theron, Pride's Crossing, nr. Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Pierce, Mrs. Theron, Pride's Crossing, nr. Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Strutt, Hon. Mrs. C. H., Wetherham, St. Tudy, Cornwall.
Sutherland, Lady, 36 Upper Brook Street, London, W. 1.
Tillyard, Dr. R. J., F.R.S., Chief Commonwealth Entomologist,
Canberra, F.C.T., Australia.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 250th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Sqiiare, London, W.C., on Monday, July 16th, 1928, at 5 p.m.,
The President in the Chair. There were also present
:
Mr. W. R . Bousfield, Professor E. R Dodds, Mr. J. G. Pid-
dington, Mr. W. H. Salter, Mrs. W. H. Salter, Mr. S. C. Scott,
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ; also Mr. Theo-
dore Besterman, Hon. Librarian, and Miss I. Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Eight new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
Mr. Theodore Besterman was co-opted a member of Council
for the year 1928-1929.
On the proposal of Mr. J. G. Piddington, seconded by
Mr. Sydney C. Scott, the Council filled the vacant places
among their elected members caused by the resignations of
Dr. L. P. Jacks and Professor Gilbert Murray by appointing
to them Mr. W. R. Bousfield, K.C., and Professor E. R.
Dodds, hitherto co-opted members.
The Monthly Accounts for June, 1928, were presented and
taken as read.
October, 1928 Meetings 319
PKIVATE MEETING.
The 97th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Rooms
of the Society, 31 Tavistock Sqizare, W.C., on Wednesday,
June 27th, 1928, at 8.30 p.m., The President in the chair.
Miss Ina Jephson read a paper on " Eecent Experiments in
Card-Guessing," which will, it is hoped, be published later in
Proceedings.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 173rd General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Council Chamber, Denison House, Vauxhall Bridge Road,
S.W. 1, on Monday, July 16th, 1928, at 8.30 p.m., The
President in the Chair.
M. Rene Warcollier read a paper on " L'accord tele-
pathique," which was illustrated by lantern slides. The whole
paper is to be published in the Revue Metapsychique ; the
abstract in English, which was distributed to the audience, is
printed below.
ABSTRACT OF MONSIEUR WARCOLLIER'S PAPER.
Importance of ascertaining conditions favourable to telepathy.
Classification of phenomena as experimental or spontaneous is too
broad. Telepathy may be (1) spontaneous on both sides, (2) ex-
perimental on the agent's side, spontaneous on the percipient's
(Example). (3) In experimental telepathy, involving a group of
persons, spontaneous cases may arise. It might seem that sym-
pathy was one of the conditions favouring telepathy and in the
great majority of spontaneous cases sympathy exists ; but it is
not a necessary condition (Example). Indifference and antipathy
may provoke telepathy (Example). Sometimes telepathy seems to
have a definite focus, sometimes to wander at random. We must
therefore conclude that a great number of factors are concerned.
PART I.
(1) When a number of persons share a perception, telepathic
rapport may be established between them. This is the type that
320 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1928
may occur spontaneously in the case of persons in churcli, at
meetings, etc.
Corollary. When a group of persons are thinking of the same
agent, rapport may be established between them (Examples).
These cases of " mental contagion " must be distinguished
from cases of collective telepathy which are referable to the
agent (Example). This fact of spontaneous rapport be-
tween percipients was noted by the old magnetisers (Example
from Carl du Prel). Possible instances of spontaneous rapport
between animals. Experiments with horses ;
" the group mind "
;
apparent telepathy between insects ; the matter deserves syste-
matic study.
(2) When several persons perceive objects different but resem-
bling each other, telepathic rapport may be established between
them (Example). This kind of telepathic rapport is understood
by savage peoples (Example from the Huichol Indians on pilgrimage).
(3) Speaking generally, when several persons perceive objects
which are generically but not specifically the same, telepathic
rapport may occur between them. (Example of Mr. Marks
who, driven home by a summer shower, fell asleep and dreamt
of his brother's shipwreck in a storm, an event which actually
occurred at the time 200 miles away. Mrs. Sidgwick raises the
question whether the summer shower and the storm offer enough
resemblance to produce a community of ideas between the
brothers and facilitate telepathic rapport.)
(4) When several persons have the same preoccupation or aim,
telepathic rapport may occur. (Example : M. Warcollier perceived
an object not transmitted by the agent with whom he was
experimenting, but which another agent (of the group) was
intending to transmit half an hour later.) An attempt was made
to produce this rapport artificially by giving agent and percipients
a definite and common object upon which to focus their thoughts
during the experiment. (Examples (1) the curtain; (2) the knotted
string.) Difficulties owing to arousing ideas associated with the
object selected.
PART II.
Action of the Percipient on the Agent.
The simplest form of telepathy is when two minds accidentally
chime together. We must now consider what part is played
October, 1928 Meetivgs 321
by the agent's will acting on the percipient, or vice-versa. The
percipient appears to be the principal factor, though the agent
is not negligible. A percipient who knows he is working
with several agents cannot direct his conscious and unconscious
thoughts and is liable to fail. An agent working with several
percipients may try to influence one to the exclusion of the
others, but rarely succeeds (Examples). In these cases the directing
of the agent's thoughts had no effect ; the only effective factor
was the percipient's will to receive a message, i.e. to open a pre-
determined door in his subconscious mind.
Various Objects of Transmission.
(1) Attitudes; (2) tactile sensations; (.3) auditory sensations,
possible hyperaesthesia ; (4) visual sensations.
PART III.
Action of the Agent on the Percipient.
This appears obvious in some spontaneous cases. In what
can it consist ? One agent in the group, M. de S., uses entirely
the method of willed action ; I myself often deliberately adopt the
contrary method, and yet I get as good results as M. de S.
Some trained agents, when they have succeeded in focussing their
action on a percipient, signify their awareness of their success.
This we call " linking up " ; it is the complement of what occurs
with trained percipients. But we ourselves have not acquired, at
least as agents, this valuable faculty, though we have had some
encouraging results.
Report on a Group of Ten Experiments between
M. DE S. and Myself.
The distance between us varied from a few yards to 800 kilometres.
The results do not seem to have been affected by the distance.
1 Expt. I. A. (3) Two glass globes full of stuffed birds sitting on a
tree. " The birds fly and flutter round your head."
P. (3) "A white bird like a sea-gull with M. de
S.'s head, sweeping round on its left wing and
coming to ground near me."
Expt. II. A. (2)
" I thought of a horse-hair glove on a bottle.
(3) drew it, (4) thought of associated ideas : gym-
nastics, hygiene, health," etc.
1 In this abstract only successful results are given.
322 Journal vj Society for Psychical Research October, 1928
P. (1) Man's arm, brown, hairy, hoeing the ground,
(2) brown man turning backwards as on a trapeze,
(3) child doing gymnastics ; (4) sailors jumping from j
one platform to another. :
Expt. III. A. (2) Drawing; idea of geometry.
P. (3) Flying buttress of masonry, supporting a wall
;
a very high pillar of stone supporting a metal
framework. (4) A man on all fours, recognised as
M. Gruzewski, who had been that day at M. de
S.'s and had picked up potatoes in that position. ,
Expt. IV. Failure.
Expt. V. Failure. |
Expt. VI. A. (1) Drawing ; (3) lighted flame of methylated spirit.
P. (1) A spoon, (2) iridescent, (3) holy water vessel
;
(4) bowls one inside another.
Expt. VII. P. unable to keep appointed time ; later attempt
a failure.
Expt. VIII. A. unable to keep appointed time.
Expt. IX. A. (2)
" a picture of Turkestan dancers, badly torn ;
j
sketched naked figure in red crayon (wine lees) ;
transparent blue dress ;
definitely formed head-dress
;
danse."
P. (3) Naked shoulders ? (4) A leather bottle, colour \
of wine lees ; it has a hole in it and something
dirty is trickling out ; (5) a white head-dress, a
gold mantilla on a doll's head.
Expt. X. A. (2) A heap of manure, a boy with his apron full
of grass, a peasant with two buckets ; (3) sketch
of peasant ; (4) evening at the farm.
P. (3) a man's head, unknown, frank and cheerful
aspect ; (5) a bundle of hay, a bound truss.
Kesume of results.
Conclusion.
What we appear to get is a combination of thought-reading by the
percipient and transmission of thought by the agent. The agent
must play some part, or we should not get good and bad agents.
Both agent and percipient must focus their thoughts outside their
normal consciousness, to meet, as it were, in a psychic world.
There is in the agent a kind of psychic illumination, which
October, 1928 Meetings 323
is unconscious, but may be voluntarily evoked by certain kinds
of psychic training. It can also be discovered by a percipient
whose thoughts are focussed on the agent.
EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING.
An Extraordinary General Meeting for Members only was
held in the Rooms of the Society on July 18th, 1928, at
3.30 p.m., to consider the Agenda annexed to the Requsition
signed by twelve members of the Society.
The President was in the chair. There were also present :
Mrs. Jessica Arnold, Mr. Theodore Besterman, Mr. W. R.
Bousfield, K.C., ]\Irs. Brackenbury, Mrs. Bulley, ]\Irs. Carpenter,
Miss Carruthers, Lady Culme-Seymour, Miss Curtois, Mrs.
Davis, Lieut. -Colonel Maxwell Dick, ]\Ir. Dingwall, Mrs. Ding-
wall, Mrs. Enthoven, Mr. Fernald, Mrs. Fernald, ]\Irs. Gaskell,
Mr. Gatlifi, Mrs. Goldney, Major H. F. Grant-Suttie, Major
J. B. Handley-Seymour, Mrs. Hodgson-Smith, Lord Charles
Hope, Miss Boucher James, Miss Jephson, Mrs. Kingsley,
Mr. G. W. Lambert, Mrs. Leaning, Mr. J. G. Piddington, J\Ir.
Theron Pierce, Mrs. Theron Pierce, Mr. W. H. Salter, ]\Irs.
Salter, Mr. S. C. Scott, Dr. Sheldon, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
IVIr. Montgomery Smith, Mr. Soal, Sir. Summerson, Miss Swain-
son, Mx. Symington, Miss Taylor, Mr. Thorburn, Miss Turner,
Mr. Vance, Mrs. Vatcher, Mr. Vinen, Mr. Max West, Miss
Wilkinson, Mrs. Cornell WooUey, Dr. V. J. Woolley, Miss
Wroe, and Miss Newton, Secretary.
Clause 1 of the Agenda—" Inquiry into the issue of a
circular and proxy forms to a limited number of Members
only, prior to the last Annual General Meeting "
—having been
read, Mrs. Bulley obtained the leave of the Chairman to read
a statement by J\Irs. Tarpey, who was unable to be present
herself. At the close of the statement Mrs. Bulley stated that
she wished to move a Resolution, but, in view of the provisions
of the Companies Acts, the Chairman ruled that at that
meeting any Resolution not set out in the Agenda would be
out of order. A discussion followed in which the following
Members took part : Miss Newton, ]\'Ir. Summerson, Mr.
Bousfield, Mr. Piddington, ]\Ir. Dingwall, Col. Maxwell Dick,
324 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Octobee, 1928
and Mrs. Salter. Mr. Dingwall put three questions, to which
he said he did not expect an answer at that meeting. The
Chairman said the Council would reply to the questions when
they had considered them.
Clauses 2 and 3 of the Agenda, setting out proposed
Resolutions to alter certain of the Society's Articles of Associa-
tion, and to fix the hour of the Society's meetings, were then
read. Mr. Dingwall said that the proposers named in the
Agenda did not intend to move any of the Resolutions at
that meeting but to postpone the moving of them until after
the Committee appointed to consider the revision of the Articles
had reported. A member, Mr. H. E. C. Gatlifi (who was not
one of the proposers named in the Agenda), thereupon moved
the Resolutions in order to obtain the decision of the meeting.
The Chairman, notwithstanding certain protests, accepted the
motion. On a show of hands there appeared :
For the Resolutions, 3 votes.
Against the Resolutions, 28 votes,
22 members abstaining from voting. The Resolutions were
therefore declared lost.
Mr. Scott, as a member of the Committee above referred to,
invited suggestions from any member of the Society as regards
the revision of the Articles.
The meeting then proceeded to consider Clause 4 of the
Agenda—" Inquiry arising out of the statement of the Hon.
Research Officer at the last Annual General Meeting that
experimental Research into physical phenomena is discontinued."^
In the discussion which followed, Mr. Dingwall, Dr. Woolley,
Mr. Salter, Mr. Piddington, Mrs. Sidgwick, and Mr. Lambert
took part.
The Council wish to thank those Members of the Society
(274 in number) who responded to the Council's request by sending
in proxies in their favour for the meeting of July 18th. One
proxy was lodged in favour of the Requisitionists.
Several Members who lodged proxies also attended the meeting.
* The Council is not responsible for the wording of this clause, which does not
accurately represent what Dr. Woolley said at the meeting.
October, 1928 The Fire Walk 325
THE FIRE WALK.
We print below a group of communications we have received con-
cerning the Report on the Fire Walk which appeared in the Journal
for June last, p. 278.
(1) On p. 284 of the June Journal appeared a statement
from Lord Sydenham's Private Secretary. We have now
obtained through Lord Selborne a corroborative statement from
Lord Sydenham himself. Lord Selborne writes to Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick, as follows :
'
July 4, 1928.
I have seen Lord Sydenham to-day. He tells me he was present at
the firewalking all the time, that the flames curled up the legs, so
fierce was the fire, that he made his medical officer examine the
feet and legs of the firewalkers in his presence, and that his A.D.C.
gave the testimonial on his authority. He says that the legs and
feet of the firewalkers were absolutely unscathed.
Selborne.
To this letter was appended the following note by Lord
Sydenham :
7.7.28.
This is absolutely correct, but it may be added that at first
these chelas walked over red-hot coals in a shallow trench. Then
straw was thrown on which caused a blaze.
Sydenham.
(2) We have also received the following corroboration from
Mrs. Willock, a Member of the Society, who was an eye-
witness of the fire walk in 1900 :
June 17, 1928.
The account of the Fire Walking in the June Journal interests me
much. I should like to add my testimony to that of the others. Evi-
dently I saw the same fakir ; as you will see from the enclosed
circular which I have kept all these years among other Indian
curiosities. Of course the slight difference of spelling is nothing,
since the translation of Urdu letters into Roman is more or less
a matter of taste. In about 1902 I wrote an account of the
fire walk for a little magazine
—
The Penny Magazine (Cassell)
—
now probably defunct. According to this . . . the trenches were
*'
about 40 feet by 7 feet " and in the form of a cross ; the
326 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1928
Rishi (fakir) himself, taking some children with him, was the
first to pass over the live charcoal, and a very large number of
all sorts of natives followed his example. Some of our party
were anxious to try our luck, but it was not considered the thing
for us to do so. . . . However, my syce did go through without
any sign of burning, and later when it was all over I threw his
cummerbund—a heavily stitched waistband made of several thick-
nesses of coloured cloth to form stripes round his waist—in the still
burning trench. It smouldered slowly, curled up and turned
black, so that the intense heat we all felt when near the trenches
could not have been hypnotic. The preliminaries were distinctly
religious ;
during the prayers the Rishi threw a good deal of fluid
about from large earthen jars, and it was suggested that since
the believers splashed through the fluid as it lay on the ground it
might be some secret medium to prevent burning. But, as far as
I remember, later on people ran in from any point—I mean they
did not necessarily start from the fakir where the water was.
Unfortunately I have lost the old sketch-book I had with me,
but the little sketches in the article show the Rishi as a youngish
man—they were made from the original about two years later.
Mary Willock.
With Mrs. Willock's letter was enclosed the original announce-
ment of the performance, which we print below :
In the Name of the Most Merciful God.
CIRCULAR
Under the Distinguished Patronage of
LT.-GEL. SIR P. PALMER.
I Hope He will attend Himself.
I, Syed Hossain Shan Atshi, beg to inform the people of the Rawal-
pindi District for making a Julsa of Gulzar Ahmedi in the Sarai of
choudhery Ramazan Sadder Bazar near Bhusa mandi.
1. Will burn 50 Maunds of fuel for making charcoal fire.
2. By the favour of Hazarut Mohamed's Kulma shareef, I will
pass through the red fire, without delay make others pass. • :
3. By the grace of the Almighty and Hazarut Mohamed
Sahib, no one will receive any harm from the heat of the fire.
4. Hoping that all the European and Native officers will very
kindly attend the Julsa at the proper time and place.
October, 1928 The Fire Walk 327
5. The Julsa will commence on Monday the 5-3-1900. Julsa
4 to 6 p.m.
[The price of tickets is then given.]
SYED HOSSAIN SHAH ATSHI.
We have also received the following communication from
another Member of the Society, Captain Q. C. A. Craufnrd,
R.N., F.R.S.A. :
The case of Fire Walking reported in the S.P.R. Journal for
June offers an interesting subject for pure psychic research.
By psychic research I do not mean the usual parade of pre-
conceived opinion, but rather the examination of phenomena which
are at present unknown to Science. Psychic Research, by a mere
process of negation, leads nowhere. The exposure of some method
of conjuring leads to nothing.
The question that we want to consider is this :
Supposing the facts of the case are precisely as they have been
reported, what exactly does the meaning of the phenomena
observed amount to ?
Briefly it appears to be this :
Certain human beings can be possessed of powers which render
not only themselves but others immune, for a limited period, to
the action of fire.
Let us accept this as granted for an hypothesis and proceed
to enquire what it implies according to our present knowledge.
Burning coals, as we know, will scorch the feet of those
who walk over them unless the transference of heat energy is
nullified.
There is a well-known trick which I personally have seen performed
in an iron foundry. A man who knows the trick will place his bare
arm in a mass of molten iron. It is not so much a trick as the
exhibition of knowledge. The man who performs, knows by
experience that the thing can be done. The explanation is that
an insulating layer of perspiration is formed by the intense heat
of the molten iron. The writer is unfortunately aware that
nothing of the kind takes place in the case of a red-hot poker
and prefers to believe rather than test the explanation.
This carries us nowhere in the case of the firewalkers, yet
if we can get an explanation that will cover their case it may
throw another light on the molten iron experiment. Heat is a
328 Jnnrvdl of Society for Psychical Research October, 1928
mode of motion, as Professor Tyndall illustrated so admirably in
his popular lectures.
Fire is only a remarkable exhibition of heat ; the combustion
of wood, coal or any other substance bursts into flame or a glow-
ing temperature when the motion is sufficiently intense. This
intense motion, known as high temperature, always tends to spread
in the direction of a lower temperature or less energetic exhibition
of motion which by comparison we call cool. Thus if there be
three sources of heat, " A," " B," " C," and if C is the cooler,
while A and B are both in a high state of intense motion, A and
B will endeavour to part with sufficient of their energy to raise
C into an equal condition to themselves. C does not part with
some of its own particular energy ; on the contrary it absorbs
energy from A or B or both. This is what apparently occurred
in the case of the firewalkers.
A is the fakir, B represents the bystanders who borrowing some
kind of energy from A, parted with it to the cooler substance in
the fire trench, C. We therefore have to imagine a form of
energy so intense, that by comparison the energy of glowing coal
is feeble. If we turn to the Solar Spectrum we have an illustra-
tion of such kinds of energy. At the red end are the heat rays,
but at the violet end the energy, not exhibited as sensible heat,
is far more intense. The " heat " is there so far as being a mode
of motion is concerned, but to our nerves it is cool. In ordinary
language it is light rather than heat.
We have now come to the question as to what would occur if
A and B are radiating light energy in excess of the amount of heat
energy given out by C. I am not aware of any experiment that
directly answers this question unless it be admitted that direct
sunlight puts the fire out. Personally, after considerable observa-
tion, I believe this is true.
I submit as a theory for research that in the case of the
fakir he creates an aura of intense but invisible light, that the
auras of all human beings in his vicinity respond to this human
form of energy, and that while it lasts in a very intense form it
tends to overcome the energy known as heat. Now it is not
beyond our laboratory resources to create ultra-violet rays of
light and to bathe an object in this form of energy. It would
be interesting to experiment and discover whether under such
conditions a body so illuminated would resist ordinary dull red
OCTOBEE, 1928 The Fire Walk 329
heat. Something of this kind is actually indicated in well-known
phenomena, for a white object will remain cool in the direct
rays of the sun much longer than a dark object. The whiter
surface can respond to the higher vibrations of light in a way
that the dark surface which will respond to the red end of the
spectrum cannot do. The consequence is that the dark object
absorbs heat energy much quicker than the light object: it gets
hot. Moreover, we are aware of certain kinds of flame or glow
which give no sensible heat, they are phosphorescent. We know
this much at any rate.
It is the rate of absorption which counts in the transference of
radiant heat, and if by any means the rate of absorbing heat
energy can be checked, very wonderful results are produced.
Consider the following experiment so beloved by Professor
Tyndall : A piece of painted wood is taken and on it a design is
made in the thinnest gold-leaf. This is exposed to the heat of a
fire until the paint is blistered and the wood charred. Under-
neath the gilt letters, however, the wood is found to be quite
unaffected. Why ? Merely because the thin gilt surface refused
to accept the coarser form of energy known as heat, the gilt
surface reflects or turns back the destructive rays of heat. In
the language now popular for wireless radiation, we should say
it is not " tuned " to the lower frequency. Space, of course, does
not admit of a closer reasoning, but I hope to have indicated a
line of thought.
REVIEWS.
I. Bulletin No. V. of the Boston Society for Psychical Research,
February 1927. " A Contribution to Experimental Telepathy,"
by G. H. EsTABROOKS, Ph.D. Pp. 28.
We did not review this important Bulletin, which describes
experiments conducted in the Psychological Laboratory of Harvard
University, at the time of its publication, because for some unex-
plained reason—possibly loss in the post—it did not reach our
library till after the following four numbers, which have already
been reviewed. When it did reach us we thought it might be
better to wait for the promised publication of a similar series of
experiments which Dr. Estabrooks tells us were being carried out
330 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1928
by another experimenter at Springfield College, Mass., and consider
them together. However, as the report of the Springfield experi-
ments has still not reached us, we will not delay longer calling
the attention of our members to Dr. Estabrooks' results.
His aim was to conduct experiments under what he calls
" laboratory conditions " with normal persons not known to possess
telepathic powers. By " laboratory conditions " he means, if I
understand him rightly, conditions treating agent and percipient
as much as possible as if they were machines—endeavouring to
eliminate all emotions or sensory impressions or thoughts which
could have any influence on the guess made by the percipient.
There were three series of experiments, all made with playing cards.
Dr. Estabrooks was the agent and sat in one room, while the
percipients—one at a time—sat in an adjoining room with closed
doors between. We cannot of course give here the full description
of the experiments, but roughly speaking the agent drew cards at
random at the rate of three a minute and for each drawing the
percipient, timed by clockwork signals, wrote down the first card
that came into his head. Each percipient made 20 such guesses
in succession, and only in a few instances was the same percipient
used for a second set of guesses. The total number of guesses
made was 1660 (in 83 sets of 20), and of these 938 were right as
to colour as against 830 to be expected by chance, and 473 right
as to suit as against 415 to be expected by chance. This, added
to the distribution of the successes, makes it practically certain
that something other than chance was in operation. The interest-
ing point about the distribution of the successes was that in each
series the first 10 guesses in each set of 20 showed in the aggre-
gate a higher proportion of successes than the second 10, suggesting
that some capacity was at work which rapidly deteriorated with
use.
A separate series of experiments was tried with agent and
percipient in rooms still in the same building but separated from
each other by a greater distance and by four closed doors. These
were tried on the same day and immediately following those of
the first of the three series already mentioned, and with the same
percipients. In this series the result was negative—no success
beyond chance was obtained. Dr. Estabrooks is inclined to
attribute this " largely to the distance factor with perhaps an
element of . . . some factor such as adverse auto-suggestion." The
October, 1928 Reviews 331
first hypothesis is difficult to reconcile with the facts of spontaneous
telepathy. The second was the explanation Mrs. Sidgwick and
Miss Alice Johnson were inclined to think applied in the case of
similar failures of their own to obtain experimental thought-
transference at a distance after succeeding at closer quarters (see
Proc. vol. viii. p. 147). It is to be hoped that further experi-
ments will help to clear up this obviously very important question.
E. M. S.
II. The Basis of Memory. By W. E. Bousfield, K.C, F.R.S.
Kegan Paul & Co., London. Pp. 132. 1928.
Memory is a big subject and one that raises very difficult
questions. If we really knew all about memory we should prob-
ably have got a long way towards understanding the problems
that confront us in psychical research. Therefore when first
asked to review this little book I hesitated, feeling that my
knowledge of all that has been said and written about memory
is not sufficient to entitle me to speak on the subject.
However, Mr. Bousfield is mainly concerned to point out the
inadequacy of a certain physiological—or perhaps better, mech-
anical—theory of the basis of memory, and this he does with
force and clearness, so that his book may be recommended as a
useful statement of the particular theory and a suggestive con-
sideration of it. The theory is briefly that memory depends on
permanent impressions on the brain, some of which are inherited,
but others continually added through the senses (sight, hearing,
etc.). These impressions, called " engrams " by Professor Semon,
whose discussion of the subject Mr. Bousfield takes as his text,
remain latent unless and until revived as a memory image of the
original stimulus by some influence such as the operation of an
associated sensation or idea. The existence of " engrams," it must
be noted, is purely hypothetical for, as Professor Semon says,
" We are at present quite in the dark as to the special morpho-
logical nature of that surviving alteration in organic substance
which we call an engram." Granting the possibility that
" engrams " may be produced through the senses, Mr. Bousfield
points out that in what we remember psychic factors are involved,
e.g. it is a matter of common experience that we may remember
the meaning of a sentence heard or read without remembering
the exact words—but the engram ex hypothesi is produced by the
332 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1928
sensory impression, the sound or sight of the words, not their
meaning. Again, we can select between contemporary sense
impressions which to remember, by attending to one and neglecting
the others ; but attention is an affair of the consciousness, not of
the senses ; the sound, or sight, or touch experienced is mechani-
cally the same whether we attend to it or not. Further, we can
and do remember thoughts and ideas which have not come to us
directly through the senses at all. These and other points are
discussed and illustrated at length, and it is thus made clear that
mere engrams produced by impressions through the senses in the
structure of the brain, will not by themselves serve as a sufficient
basis for memory. Mr. Bousfield regards as a more plausible
hypothesis that memory depends on what he calls " psycho-
grams " in the structure of the mind. Of what the structure of
the mind consists we are, of course, completely ignorant, but
Mr. Bousfield inclines to the view that such part of it, at any
rate, as receives psychograms forming the basis of memory, is a
physical though not a material substance—possibly an arrange-
ment of the ether which is supposed to carry the vibrations of
light and electricity. But we need not follow him in these
speculations, on which indeed he touches but lightly.
I have not, of course, in my bald account of the book done
justice either to Mr. Bousfield's statement of Professor Semon's
theory, or to his vigorous assault on it, but I hope I have said
enough to show that readers will find in this book a suggestive
analysis of some part of the problem of the basis of memory.
E. M. S.
III. Why I Believe in Personal Immortality. By Sir Oliver
Lodge. Cassell & Co., London, Toronto, Melbourne, and
Sydney. Pp. viii, 15L
I suppose that Sir Oliver Lodge's title is a concession to the
popular prejudice which is more impressed with the fact that an
eminent person believes a certain doctrine than with the reasons
he has for holding his belief ; but the book itself is free from all
suggestion of egotism and authoritarianism. It is a singularly
simple, lucid, and persuasive statement of the scientific grounds on
which Sir Oliver finds the belief in personal immortality tenable
and convincing. He is candid enough to dissociate himself
OCTOBEE, 1928 Reviews 333
" respectfully " (but quite unequivocally) from the very dubious
arguments which may be called that from theology, and that
from desire, being respectively " based on the postulate of the
goodness and reasonableness of a Creator " and on " man's in-
stinctive revulsion from the idea of annihilation and on the
postulate that evolved instincts must have some correspondence
with reality," and declares that his " whole contention rests on a
basis of experience and on acceptance of a class of facts which
can be verified at first hand by others if they take the trouble,"
and that " individual personal continuance is to me a demon-
strated fact "
(p. V.)- He is also careful to point out that " im-
mortality " should not be taken to mean infinite existence, for
" survival of personality is all that we can hope to establish
"
(p. vi.).
Logically, his strategy seems to be very sound on all these
points. For whatever may have been true in the past, it seems
clear that at present theology is very half-hearted and weak-kneed
about the belief in a future life. We need not inquire whether
the reason is that apologetics have lapsed into feeblemindedness
or that the " faith " of theologians has been corroded by unavowed
scepticism. The argument from desire plainly depends on the
prior postulate that the world is too rational to disappoint our
(present) desires, and moreover encounters the awkward fact that
quite a large number of persons seem to be genuinely (though
no doubt for good personal reasons) devoid of any craving for
immortality. Lastly, it is pretty clear that " immortality " is
strictly a misnomer for " future life." When people ask for it
they mean survival of " the wrenching experience " which is death,
and they would readily agree that they " need at present take no
thought " of " further adventures " and greater " discontinuities."
In detail, the book is composed of seven chapters, on a cosmic
view of life and mind, on seven propositions on which the belief
in immortality may rest, on the case for Psychical Research,
on psychical phenomena (which makes much of the remarkable
Chaffin Will case and of the prediction about Sir Oliver's present
house seven years before he took it), on mediumship, on how to
communicate with the departed, and a final summary.
Throughout Sir Oliver speaks with no uncertain voice about
what he rightly regards as an invaluable belief, while always
distinguishing clearly between its logical basis and the psycho-
334 Joumal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1928
logical inferences he feels entitled to draw. Thus on p. 41, he
points out that " gradually the proof of personal identity is being
established in a careful and systematic manner," and continues,
" to me the evidence is now virtually complete, and I have no
more doubt of the continued existence of surviving personalities
than I have of any deduction from ordinary normal experience."
He has no doubt that despite the usual obstruction of the con-
servative opposition (p. 47) his belief will prevail. Even though
at present " to the Church a stumbling-block and to Science
foolishness ", it is "to the bereaved a power and a comfort of
inestimable value "
(p. 128).
As for criticism, there is little to be said. The backbone of
Sir Oliver's view is, of course, his interpretation of matter as
merely an instrument of mind, and mind as the natural denizen,
not of the material earth, but of the cosmic ether. This conception
of the relation of mind to body is scientifically legitimate and
irrefragable, because any evidence which can be alleged to show that
mind depends on matter for its existence can be interpreted as show-
ing merely that it depends on matter only for its manifestation to
our senses. Thus the theory is logically unanswerable ; so much so
indeed and so awkward for materialistic physiologists and psycho-
logists that they have found no better way of dealing with it than
to suppress all reference to it so far as they could. But William
James has named it the transmission theory of the relation of
mind to matter, and psychical researchers have every reason for
associating it with his name and with his exposition in Human
Immortality. It is a little strange, therefore, that Sir Oliver should
quote for it from Prof. Lutoslawski, especially as he appeals to
James to sponsor Lutoslawski (p. 24). Personally, I should also
like to remark that I suspect that personality, survival, and
indeed the whole field of Psychical Research, may turn out to be
far more complex and divergent from our present ideas than Sir
Oliver makes them out to be ; I anticipate also that the contri-
butions of psychology to their elucidation will be found to be far
more important, fertile, and in the end decisive, than those of
either biology or physics. But though Sir Oliver may have
simplified overmuch, it can hardly be doubted that this fault, if
such it be, has only added to the charm and effectiveness of his
book. F. C. S. Schiller.
October, 1928 Proceedings and Journal in British Libraries 335
THE SOCIETY'S PROCEEDINGS AND JOURNAL IN
BRITISH LIBRARIES.
By the Honorary Librarian.
Members who are not within easy reach of the Society's
Library, and who do not possess sets of its publications, may
find it useful to have a list of the more important public and
semi-public libraries in the British Isles which contain the SP.R.
Proceedings and Journal. These Libraries do not in every case
possess complete runs, and the volumes to be found on their shelves
are therefore indicated in the third and fourth columns. An
asterisk against these dates indicates that there are gaps in
the sets. This list is largely based on information given in
A World List of Scientific Periodicals (London 1925-1927), vol. ii,
ff. 159, 230.
Town.
Aberdeen.
Aberystwyth.
Birmingham.
Brighton.
Bristol.
Cambridge.
Cardiff.
Dublin.
Edinburgh.
Glasgow.
99
Leeds.
Liverpool.
London.
Manchester.
99
Newcastle.
99
Nottingham.
St. Andrews.
Library.
University Library.
National Library of
Wales.
University Library.
Public Library.
Public Library.
University Library.
University Library.
University College of
South Wales.
Trinity College Library.
Royal Society.
National Library of
Scotland.
University Library.
Public Library.
University Library.
Mitchell Library.
Public Library.
University Library.
British Museum.
Dr. Williams's Library.
Guildhall Library.
University College.
John Rylands Library.
University Library.
Armstrong College.
Public Library.
Public Library.
University Library.
Proceedings.
1882 to date. 1884 to date.
1913 to date. 1911 to date.
*1882 to date. *1884 to date.
*1882 to date. *1884 to date.
1882 to date. 1884 to date.
1882 to date. 1897 to date.
1882 to date.
1905-1923. 1884 1912.
1882 to date.
1882-1910. 1884 1910.
1882 to date.
1882-1903.
*1882-1915.
1882 to date. 1884 to date.
1882 to date.
1882-1901. 1884 to date.
1882-1894.
1882 to date. 1884 to date.
1882 to date. 1884 to date.
1882 to date. 1885 to date.
*1882 to date. 1884 to date.
1882 to date.
1882 to date. 1889 1893.
1882-1899.
1882 to date.
1882-1906.
1882 to date.
Journal.
336 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1928
CORRESPONDENCE.
Concerning Evidence for Survival.
To the Editor of The Journal of the S.P.R.
August 1928.
Madam,—I have recently had the privilege of a talk with Prof.
Bergson on psychical problems.
Among other matters, we discussed the evidence for survival.
Bergson thinks the S.P.R. has not been able to make much
advance in that direction. William James' hypothesis of a cosmic
reservoir of memories, to which a medium may have access, though
not acceptable to Bergson himself, cannot be altogether ruled out
in weighing evidence. The ChafRn Will case, being initiated by
a dream, is in a stronger category than mediumistic communica-
tions, but even there memory cannot be entirely eliminated.
I then told Bergson the following story, which greatly impressed
him. If true, he considered it the best evidence for survival that
he had heard, as it consisted in the correction of a mistake.
Now a mistake is, philosophically speaking, nothing ; it cannot
form part of any cosmic pool of memories.
I had not, till now, realized the unique character of my story,
so propose to put it on record in the hope that even now corro-
boration may be forthcoming.
About fifteen years ago my late brother, Herbert Jones, was
Bishop of Lewes and Archdeacon of Chichester. On one of his
tours in W. Sussex he stayed with a rector who told him this
tale, which I repeat from memory.
An elderly gentleman who had made a fortune in the East
came to live in the parish and shortly afterwards died. A hand-
some tombstone was set up over his grave, and the family went
away and settled at some distance. One day the rector was
called upon by the deceased's son-in-law, who said that his wife
was suffering from a recurrent dream, in which her father
appeared to her and complained that his tombstone had been
erected over the wrong grave. The sexton was sent for and asked
if this were possible. " Quite impossible," was the reply, " as
my brother died just after Mr. X. and was buried in the next
grave, and I could not possibly have made any mistake when the
tombstone was put up." The son-in-law was quite satisfied and
October, 1928 Correspondence 337
departed, but returned after a few weeks to say that the dreams
were worse than ever and that he feared his wife would go out
of her mind. A Home Oifice permit to exhume was accordingly
obtained, and when the grave was opened it was found that the
monument had been erected over the coffin of the sexton's brother.
The mistake was rectified and the hauntings ceased.
No corroboration could be obtained at the time, but in view of
the importance of obtaining evidence of survival, I hope that some
reader may be able to assist in verification. Names of persons
and places can be disguised, if so desired, for publication.
Lawrence J. Jones.
To the Editor of The Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—In the May, 1928, Journal there are one or two points
which, I think, call for brief discussion. I shall consider them
seriatim.
(1) In the Case of Theresa Neumann, it is stated that increases
in weight occasionally follow marked losses. Now, in fasting
cases, this is occasionally noted. The patient may weigh more
at the end of two or three days' fast than he does at the beginning.
This is due to the fact that the tissues of the body are, as we
say, " obstipated," that is, dense—like a sponge which is tightly
squeezed in the hand. Fasting relieves this condition, and the
tissues soak up a certain quantity of water,—just as the sponge
does, when the grip of the hand is released. The result is that a
noticeable increase in weight is present. Of course, this is only
temporary, and water must be drunk freely in order for this effect
to be noted. I do not pretend that this in any way accounts for
Theresa's increase in weight—especially as it is stated that she did
not drink water during her fasting periods. I merely suggest
that this fact should be taken into account,—inasmuch as certain
increases are physiologically normal, while fasting.
(2) In reviewing Professor Richet's book, Count Solovovo
mentions Bert Eeese. I shall not enter into the disputed point
as to the genuineness of his pellet readings—though I have seen
him do some very remarkable things, which I could in no wise
explain—but shall merely express my opinion that Eeese possessed
genuine psychic power of no mean order. Even assuming that the
pellets were read in a perfectly normal manner, the fact remains
33S Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, if)28
that, ill replying to these questions, Reese often made predictions
and asserted certain things which were subsequently proved to be
absolutely accurate. I knew Reese well, and I believe he con-
sidered me a friend ; but only shortly before his death Reese told
me confidentially that he often made statements without knowing
in the least why,—which turned out to be true. He said to me :
" I give you my word, Carrington, I don't know why I say these
things ;
they just '
come into my mouth,' and I say them." I
have always contended that Reese possessed genuine psychic
power, and I believe so still.
Hereward Carrington.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, June 1928. A third and last
instalment of Dr. Pagenstecher's " Clairvoyance in the past, present
and future " is printed. Dr. Gustavo Peter's (Mexico City)
critical letter dated September 3rd, 1925, will be read with
peculiar interest.
Dr. R. Tischner describes two seances with Frau Silbert (March
1927), and this account, couched in moderate and sensible terms,
thoroughly deserves attention. Many of the remarks made are
very judicious and reasonable. Among the phenomena observed
some movements of a heavy table and two levitations of the same
in good light seem to have particularly impressed the Munich
investigator. As for me, I would have attached most importance
to a case of bell-ringing under the table with Dr. Tischner observ-
ing the medium's four extremities, were it not that a nephew of
the medium was present at the sitting in question ; which circum-
stance, as Dr. T. himself admits, may appear suspicious to sceptics.
With this observation I thoroughly agree. Frau S.'s reputation
seems to me too doubtful not to admit that she may avail herself
occasionally of the services of accomplices.
Dr. Wilhelm Neumann of Baden-Baden discusses some experi-
ments of the (late) Russian Professor BechterefE's on thought-
transference from man to dog described in Zeitschrift fur Psy-
chotherapie und Medizinische Psychologic (8 Band), and concludes
that the results obtained are entirely due to unconscious indica-
tions. I have the pleasure of knowing Dr. N., and his attitude in
the present instance strikes me the more as he is, I believe;
October, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 339
convinced of the authenticity of Guzik's phenomena. I wonder
what would happen to the latter were Dr. N. to apply to them
the same hypercritical criteria. Individual idiosyncrasies play a
very important part in the attitude assumed towards alleged
supernormal phenomena : very important and—arbitrary.
Dr. G. Zeller makes a few " religio-psychological and literary
remarks " a propos of the Konnersreuth case, and Frau Haase-
Baudevia quotes from von Gorres' Christliche Mystik a case
of investigation by a special commission of an instance of mass
possession among nuns at Auxonne (France) in 1662. Among the
phenomena recorded is a case of handling by one of the eighteen
nuns of a live coal with impunity.
Countess Wassilko-Serecki again energetically defends herself
against Dr. H. Eosenbusch's imputations re the Zugun case. She
also mentions that Karl Kraus (" Karl Weber " : Journal of the
S.P.R., November 1922, p. 133) admitted to her that all his
" phenomena " both at Vienna and at Munich were fraudulent.
This admission was however made after the Paris Congress, she
says, not before.
" The Psychology of Exposure " is discussed and commented on
by Prof. Walter, of Graz. " A young Englishman named Vinton
"
is criticised very sharply (cf. Psyche, April 1927). Prof. Walter, it
should be remembered, is one of the staunchest upholders of the
genuineness of Frau Silbert's phenomena.
A stenographic report on the recent Insterburg trial (Frau
Giinther-Geffers) may, we are told, be obtained from Frl. Baader,
Uhlandstrasse 182-3, Berlin-Charlottenburg ;
price 30 marks (£1 10s).
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, July 1928. Genera] Peter of
Munich reproduces from Luce e Omhra of August and September,
1927, an account by Signor Ernesto Bozzano of Physical Pheno-
mena occurring in the castle of Marchese C.S. at Millesimo, Italy.
The phenomena consist of telekinesis, direct voices, apports, etc.
The editor of the Zeitschrift himself observes in a footnote that
since the seances in question take place in the dark, an adequate
control of the four mediums present is hardly attainable. With
which observation we thoroughly agree.^ A description of a
1 See Studienrat Lambert's very sensible comments on Signor Bozzano's
credulity in the present instance in the same number of the Zeitschrift
(reviews), p. 472. .
'
340 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1928
seance for Physical Phenomena is then quoted from a recently
published work of General von Bernhardi's. The General seems to
have been thoroughly satisfied of their genuineness. We are no
less justified in doubting it.
Dr. Harms, of Oldenburg, has an article on the new psycho-
metric medium, Frau Lotte Plaat.^ An article from an Oldenburg
paper describing a seance of Frau Plaat's is reproduced and
criticised ; still Herr Harms is of opinion that Frau Plaat very
probably possesses " paranormal " faculties.
Fraulein G. Walther, Phil.D., of Munich, criticises Dr. Walter
Prince's " alleged " exposure of Rudi Schneider. The negative
result of the Stuttgart sittings is attributed (p. 407) to Dr. Prince's
mental attitude distrust and suspicion ") and to the medium's
" illness." Fraulein Walther also insists that the conditions under
which she observed phenomena with the same medium in Munich
were entirely different from the Stuttgart conditions. (The author
is, we believe, Dr. v. Schrenck's "scientific" secretary.)
Dr. Richard Winterberg, who was Frau Giinther-Gefiers' counsel
at the Insterburg trial,^ has a valuable article on this cause
celebre. (I may mention incidentally that the Insterburg Ober-
staatsanwalt has lodged an appeal against the sentence of acquittal,
so that we may before long hear of another trial and—Jet us
hope—a third acquittal.)
An article by Dr. Johannes Bauer, professor of Semitic philology
at Halle, is then reproduced from a Munich paper. Dr. Bauer
thinks it firmly established that Theresa Neumann did speak
Aramaic ; the time has not come yet, he thinks, for interpreting
this fact definitely.^
In " Kleine Mitteilungen " Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing makes
mention of a letter sent him recently by Mme. Bisson in which
she told him that she was prevented from attending the Paris
Congress (end of September 1927) by the consequences of a motor-
car accident. It must be admitted that this explanation of Mme.
B.'s absence comes somewhat surprisingly late.
Zeitschrifl fur Parapsychologie, August 1928. Dr. Simsa of Prague,
a specialist for nervous diseases, describes the spontaneous Physical
Phenomena observed by him at Prague and at Nikolsburg (see
iCf. June Journal, S.P.R., p. 297. ^ Cf. July Journal, S.P.R., p. 306.
3 See also below, p. 342.
OcTOBEn, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 341
S.P.E. Journal, March 1928). The " mediums " are stated to have
been two in number, an aunt and a niece, aged respectively
thirty-two and fourteen, though I suspect that we are entitled
to put at least occasionally into the same category a third person,
such as the maid-servant, who is described as sharing on the
20th-21st of October, 1927, the niece's bed in the kitchen, whilst
various phenomena occur. Of these, it may be said in general
that they are as abundant as they are inconclusive ; there are
hardly any exceptions to this inconclusiveness (for one apparent
exception, see p. 459.)
Dr. W. Neumann of Baden-Baden has a paper on " the so-called
thinking animals," with special reference to the dog Rolf of Mann-
heim. His conclusions are entirely unfavourable to ^oor Rolf's
claims (of which the latter may be entirely innocent !) and cast
a rather lurid light on the part played by the owners (the Mokel
family), though—rather illogically, I think—Dr. N. attempts to
exonerate the latter from conscious trickery.
Dr. Rudolf Tischner, of Munich, discusses in his usual moderate,
sensible and attractive way Dr. Pagenstecher's recent work, The
Mysteries of Psychometry and Clairvoyance. I note his remark
(p. 491) that he is now inclined to attach more importance to
telepathy as a possible factor in psychometric experiments than
before.
Herr Gustav Zeller comments with sympathy and admiration on
Prof Hans Driesch's new book, Die Sittliche Tat.
Herr Otto Seeling narrates and discusses briefly the exposure
of the miner Diebel, who professed to duplicate Theresa Neumann's
stigmatisation in the Berlin Wintergarten and kindred places.
A dream which may have been of supernormal origin is narrated
by Prof. Kasnacich of Graz as having occurred to his wife (pre-
monition of death).
A case of apparent thought-transference at a considerable
distance between native Moslems in what was once the Novibazar
sandjak (now in Yugoslavia) is related by a Herr Emil Teeliger.
Reference is made to an article published in No. 5 of the
Reclams Unirersum for 1927 where a certain Fr. von Gagern de-
scribes a stigmatica living near Laibach (Ljubljana in Yugoslavia).
The phenomena, which are stated to include stigmatisation, levita-
tions, and apparent teleplasma, are said to be attested by a local
priest.
842 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1928
Zeitschrift fur Psychische Forschmg, June 1928. A first instal-
ment of Dr. Walther Kroner's report to the Insterburg tribunal
in the Giinther-Gefiers trial (where Dr. W. K. was one of the
experts) is printed. It contains hardly any facts, being chiefly
polemical (against Drs. Moll and Hellwig) and of a theoretical
character. The two learned gentlemen mentioned above are said
to play the same part as medieval inquisitors in heretics' and
witches' trials, and there are other amenities. Telepathy, both at
close quarters and remote, and clairvoyance (under the latter term
the author understands knowledge of things and events not con-
tained in any human minds) are spoken of as undoubted facts
;
clairvoyance is however stated to be extremely rare.
Dr. Mattiesen brings to a close his exhaustive analysis of the
White case.
Dr. Biscaborn joins issue with a statement in Dr. Signer's short
paper on Konnersreuth in a recent issue of Zeitschrift fi'ir Psy-
chische Forschmg, in which doubt was cast on the stigmatica
having spoken Aramaic. A list of Aramaic words said to have
been pronounced by her in the presence of Prof Wutz or Prof.
Bauer is quoted.
Three cases of alleged prophecies are then narrated ; the two
first are attested by the late Prof. Haraldur Nielsson, of Iceland
;
the third has been communicated to Prof. Christoph Schroder by a
Herr E. and a Prau H. In the first case a certain Thorlakur 0.
Johnson had in June 1908 an abnormal experience (partly auditory)
announcing that King Frederick VIII. of Denmark would die in
1912. The prediction came true. In 1912 the same gentleman
had, we are told, again a premonition that a great war would
soon break out in Europe in which Germany would be defeated.
There seems no reasonable doubt that in both cases the premoni-
tions were told to several other persons before the fulfilment.
In the third and last case a widower is " told " by his deceased
wife who visits him at night that he will die soon. As a matter
of fact, he is killed soon afterwards in a motor accident, all the
other passengers being unhurt.
In May 1914, that is before the Sarajevo murder, a certain M. B.
told a lady in my presence in St. Petersburg that " the European
war would break out in June or July." There was no seance and
B. is no medium and no clairvoyant. I may add that by the
Russian calendar the war broke out on July 20th. This incident
OCTOBKK, 1928 Notes 071 Periodicals 343
shows us, I think, that chance coincidence, occasionally coupled
perhaps with some sagacity, may bring about results at least just
as striking as the episodes narrated by Prof. Nielsson and Prof.
Schroder.
Zeitschrift fur PsycMsche Forschung, July 1928.
Dr. E. Mattiesen discusses the " internal breathing " of mystics.
In this connection such names are mentioned as those of Ch. J.
Pinney, Granade, Evan Roberts, Thomas Lake Harris, Edward
Maitland and many others. Of course there seems to be nothing
evidential in these experiences, however curious some of them
may have been.
From the first instalment of a paper by Prof. Dr. Christoph
Schroder, to which we shall return when finished, we learn incident-
ally that his challenge {Journal, S.P.R., June 1928, p. 297) has so
far remained unanswered.
A second instalment of Dr. Walther Kroner's report on the
Insterburg trial (see July Journal) is printed. Hitherto the only
concrete case mentioned seems to be the Kaschnicki case, where a
dead body was found in a lake in the position (head downwards
and hat on head) and on the spot indicated by the clairvoyante.
Statistics are given by Dr. Kroner, whose very minuteness is likely
to arouse some suspicion ; thus out of 308 data given by Frau
Giinther-Geffers 221 are attributed by the writer to telepathy
from those present, 69 to telepathy from absent persons, and 18
to clairvoyance. Dr. Kroner believes that 50 per cent, of the
information given by the clairvoyante was correct. But of course
such statistics must be accepted cum grano salis at the very least.
Incidentally, Dr. K. mentions that the S.P.R. has registered 120,000
spontaneous cases (apparently of phantasms of the dying !) We
hope the learned judges (Dr. Kroner was one of the experts at
the trial) were duly impressed !
Prof. Dr. Schroder prints a very interesting account of Physical
Phenomena (raps, a bang, lights) coupled with prediction of death.
No person is specified, but an aunt of the narrator's (Fraulein T.)
dies ten days later. One of the lights having been grasped by
Frl. T.'s mother, the latter experiences a violent shock ; the next
morning the hand is much swollen and there is on it a dark
brown spot. The case is more than eight years old. Trickery
seems to be out of the question, but of course everything depends
on the personality of the witnesses—as to which we know nothing.
344 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Ootobee, 1928
Siiddeutsche Monatshefte, October 1927 (Munich). This very well-
known monthly has a special number almost entirely devoted to
" Occultism and Spiritism." We note in it articles by Prof. Hans
Driesch (" Facts and Theories of Parapsychology "), Dr. R. Tisch-
ner, Dr. R. Baerwald, Herr R. Lambert, Count Klinckowstroem
and Herr Arthur Hiibsher (" Occultism and Poetry "). It is very
satisfactory to have in Messrs. Klinckowstroem and Lambert
eloquent exponents of—respectively—the contra and the pro in
the domain of Physical Phenomena, both positions being in my
opinion almost equally defensible. On the whole this number
affords excellent reading and can be recommended very heartily.
Unsere Welt, July 1928 (Bielefeld). Count Klinckowstroem has
a short but trenchant article on the Bisson—Eva C. case, dealing
especially with Professor Richet's letter in the May Zeitschrift fur
Parapsychologie (see July Journal). The Count thinks the letter
unconvincing and maintains that Dr. Osty must have at his
disposal unpublished evidence bearing on the part played by
Mme. Bisson. I may be permitted—without entering into details
—
also to express the wish that the matter be cleared up. The gist
of Count K.'s letter seems to me to lie in the following lines :
" Osty as Director of an Institut Metapsychique, founded and sub-
sidised by Jean Meyer, a spiritist, is in a dependent position and
has yielded. This is, humanly speaking, comprehensible. It is to
be regretted only from the stand-point of free scientific research
"
(p. 216). Such a statement should not, in my opinion, be ignored
by Dr. Osty but answered by concrete facts.
Revue Spirite Beige, April, May, June, 1928. M. Thiebault,
president of the Mantes-sur-Seine spiritistic circle, brings k) a
close his account of the wonders at Mme. Alexandre's and solemnly
comments on them, quoting inter alia two Roman Catholic eccles-
iastical pronouncements at ten years' distance (1917-1927), the first
being hostile to spiritism, the second friendly to " metapsychics."
Meanwhile an unexpected event has thrown additional and wel-
come light on the Mantes materialisations : M. Charles Quartier
of the Paris Metapsychical Institute and a journalist friend (from
the Paris Journal) have exposed the fraud and detected the
medium (Blaise, a gardener) in playing the part of the mater-
ialised spirit Madeleine. The most characteristic feature of the
incident seems to me the very brutal way in which the two
exposers were handled by the believing members of the cenacle.
October, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 345
Revue Spirite Beige, July 1928. As was to be expected various
persons protest against the Mantes exposure. M. Thomme, president
of the Reims Spiritistic Union, M. Thiebault, president of the Mantes
spiritistic circle, M. Melusson, vice-president of the Union spirite
Francaise. The latter in an open letter to M. Masson (one of the
exposers) mentions a case where the " materialised apparition
"
had a pair of lace-up boots on (brodequins) exactly similar to
those of the medium : "I touched all the four boots at once with
my two hands." To M. Melusson this is a proof that a mater-
ialised spirit may also, occasionally, have materialised boots on
;
to me this incident, coupled with some others, is evidence that the
gardener Blaise must have had accomplices, which fact may pos-
sibly compel us to view the part played by Mme. Alexandre in
a somewhat new light. It is time I think to reconcile ourselves
to the idea that with some spiritists—as is most undoubtedly the
case with some religious fanatics—intense conviction may well go
hand in hand with connivance at deception if not direct deception.
Revue Metapsychique, May-June 1928. M. de Vesme brings to a
close his exhaustive examination of the Indian rope-trick, begin-
ning with Marco Polo, Ibn Batuta (thirteenth century) and the
Emperor Jahagueir (seventeenth century) and ending with some
more or less contemporary accounts. His conclusions are entirely
negative. In some cases, as for instance in his analysis of the
Emperor Jahagueir's account (where he suggests an ingenious use
of mirrors by Indian conjurers), I think his criticisms deserve
consideration ; in other instances I have the impression M. de
Vesme sometimes gets rid of the evidence in a somewhat ofi-hand
fashion : so perhaps in the Edwin Goodell case and in the CO.
Sen case (March-April number, pp. 137-138, 140). The collective
hallucination hypothesis he rejects. By the way, it can hardly
have had its origin in the narrative printed in 1890 in the
Chicago Tribune, since reference is already made to the same legend
(photographing a fakir's performance) in Messrs. Barrett and
Myers's review of Mme. Home's D. D. Home, his life and mission,
printed in the S.P.R. Journalm 1889.^
*M. de Vesme mentions a case where the rope-trick was photographed and
duly registered on the plate by Lieutenant F. W. Holms (p. 221). I may
mention here that at the end of 190.5 a Russian naval officer told me he had
been present at a fakir performance which was photographed, the plate
remaining Mwaffected. I do not know, however, what the performance consisted
of, and was never able to obtain from Captain Bylim Kolosovsky a written
account of his experience.
346 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1928
M. Osty has a paper on the " Sixth Sense " a propos of Prof.
Richet's book under the same name.
Dr. Budolf Reitler, Physician in Chief of the Laboratory of
Research on malaria, at Rosh Pinah, Palestine, describes a series
of experiments tending to indicate an action of the human organ-
isms (at a distance of 20 centimetres), also of the organisms of some
reptiles, on preparations of female locusts of the Acrisiidae family
in salt solution. The writer has obtained some positive results.
Prof. Richet prints two accounts of incidents supposedly super-
normal. In the second of these, the sister of a lady personally
known to Prof. Richet and living in Czecoslovakia hears in a
dream a voice telling her that Marshal von Hindenburg has just
been elected President of the German Republic. This monition
comes true. Of course, as we all know, the Germans had to
choose between Field-Marshal von Hindenburg and Dr. Marx only,
but M. Richet attaches some importance to this incident on account
of the form of the dream being " quite analogous to that of
veridical dreams."
In the Chronique reference is made to the Mantes scandal.
We are promised further details. We are also informed of another
exposure bearing on " the Vallee seances," which seances had been
going on in Paris since the beginning of the century. These
sittings (at which various physical phenomena occurred) were by
the way gratuitous.
We are also told in the same Chronique that an important
industrial association of Italy whose name is given as Association
four les eaux potables d'ltalie, having become convinced that
dowsing is a genuine faculty, have now several dowsers in their
technical personnel. These rhabdomanciens selected from among
the most gifted candidates, give "the most satisfactory results."
P. P. S.
Psychic Research, May 1928. This number opens with a first
instalment of Dr. Richardson's report on " Experiments in Thought
Transference (from the Margery Case)." The experiments which
began by an attempt to prove " post-hypnotic influencing of
Margery by Walter," developed later by the co-operation of
various other persons, including the well-known medium George
Valiantine, into experiments in cross-correspondences of a type
not unlike the cross-correspondences between automatists published
in the Society's Proceedings. Comment, which, if it was to serve
I
October, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 347
any useful purpose, would exceed the usual limits of these notes,
is at present deferred.
Professor Christian Winther brings to a close his report on
experiments in telekinesis with Anna Rasmussen. We hope later
to review these experiments as a whole. The number includes a
report by Dr. Osty on the " painter-mediums," Marjan Gruzewski
and Augustin Lesage. More detailed reports on their phenomena
have already appeared in the Revue Metajpsychique and have been
commented on by Count Solovovo (cf. Jour. S.P.R., May 1928,
p. 265, July 1928, p. 310).
M. Sudre has an article on " More about Human Radiations,"
in which he discusses some experiments carried out by M. E. K.
Mueller, Director of the Salus Institute for electromagnetic treat-
ment of nervous disorders. M. Sudre describes the general
character of M. Mueller's experiments and compares some of his
observed results with an experiment made by M. Courtier with
Eusapia Palladino and with some of Ochorowicz's experiments
with Stanislawa T.
Mr. H. C. Wright has an article on " The Phases of Mental
Action." His article is mainly theoretical, but he gives an account
of various personal experiences which are not without interest,
although, as published here, they lack corroboration.
Psychic Research, June 1928. This number opens with a first
instalment of a report by Geoffrey C. H. Burns, M.D., on " A
Case of Apparent Obsession and its Treatment on the Assumption
that the Obsessing Entities were to be taken at their Face Values."
The physician who treated the case was Dr. Titus Bull. We
propose to give some account of this report later.
M. Rene Sudre has an article on " The Reality of Parapsychical
Phenomena," in which he refers to the case of Eusapia Palladino
and states that " the experiments made at the General Psycho-
logical Institute in 1905 and 1909 stand in my judgment as an
unassailable verification of telergy."
An article by Mrs. F. E. Leaning on " The Indian Control
"
includes an account of some spiritualistic phenomena as observed
amongst North American Indians 300 years ago. The accounts are
based on the reports of Jesuit missionaries. The evidence for
anything in the way of veridical phenomena appears to be scanty.
There is a second instalment of Dr. Richardson's " Experiments
in Thought Transference," and Mr. Harry Price gives specifications
348 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1928
(illustrated) for a specially constructed " seance table for the study
of telekinesis."
An interesting article on " St. Augustine's attitude to Psychic
Phenomena " is reprinted from the Hibbert Journal, October 1926.
Psychic Science, July 1928. This number is mainly occupied
by reports on the Margery mediumship. The articles include a
general history of the case, " Experiments in Thought Trans-
ference," by Dr. Richardson, " Some Critical Aspects of the Margery
Mediumship," by Dr. Crandon (an address given at the British
College of Psychic Science, December 8th, 1927). Dr. Crandon
gives an account of various communications received by Margery
in automatic writing. The "Experiments in Thought Transference"
include a report on the writing by Margery of a large number of
Chinese characters (reproduced).
There is a short article by Mrs. McKenzie on " '
Patience Worth
'
and her Medium."
Nature, August 18, 1928. This number contains an article by
Dr. R. J. Tillyard, F.R.S., on " Evidence of Survival of a Human
Personality." The evidence was obtained at sittings with Margery
and the " surviving personality " is her control, Walter. The
report is divided into two parts : (1)
" Supernormal Cognition of
Unknown Objects," and (2)
" Supernormal Production of Thumb-
prints." The evidence is of much the same general type as has
already been reported in Psychic Research and elsewhere.
In the same number Dr. Tillyard's article is discussed and criticised
in an interesting editorial article. Dr. Tillyard's article, we are told,
was printed in response to his plea " for a wider and more generous
outlook on the part of science towards psychical research." On this
ground at any rate all psychical researchers will find themselves in
agreement with Dr. Tillyard and will welcome the response which
the Editor of Nature has made to his plea. H. de G. S.
ERRATUM.
We regret that in the Journal for June, p. 293, the name of
Mr. George] Lindsay Johnson, the author of The Great Problem, was
incorrectly given.
Ko. 449.—Vol. XXIV. - November, 1928.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE.
A CONVERSAZIONE
WILL BE HELD IN
THE ROOMS OF THE SOCIETY,
AT 31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i,
ON
WEDNESDAY, December $th, 1928, at 4 p.m.,
When Dr. V. J. Woolley will describe some recent
Sittings in Baron v. Schrenck-Notzing's Laboratory.
Members and Associates who wish to have
Tea must send in their names to the Secretary
before Dec. 4th, and enclose Is. for Tea ticket.
Owing to limited room, the Conversazione will he for
Members and Associates only.
350 Journal of Society for Psychical i2esearc/i November, 1928
PRIVATE MEETING.
Preliminary Announcement.
A Private Meeting of the Society will be held in the Society's
Rooms, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday,
January 9th, 1929, at 5 p.m., when Mrs. W. H. Salter will
read a paper on " Some Incidents occurring at Sittings with
Mrs. Leonard which may throw light on the Modus Operandi."
NEW MEMBERS.
Armitage, Miss D. M., Pennyfathers, Welwyn, Herts.
Champion de Crespigny, Mrs. Philip, Artillery Mansions, West-
minster, London, S.W. 1.
Dickson, B. W. A., Little Bridgen, Bexley, Kent.
Donald, Mrs. R. A., Allandale, Creek Road, East Molesey, Surrey.
Fawcett, E. Douglas, Le Verger, Clarens, Canton de Vaud, Switzer-
land.
Jonson, G. C. Ashton, c/o Standard Bank of South Africa,
Cape Town.
Oor, Georges, 49 Dieweg, Brussels, Belgium.
Schmidt, Julius 0., Leipzigstrasse 110 a, Frankfort, CTcrmany.
Trimen, Mrs., Bailey's Hotel, Gloster Road, London, S.W. 7.
Vandy, A. E., 94 Essex Road, Manor Park, London, E. 12.
Wilson-Wright, L. A., Meer Hill, Loxley, Warwick.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 251st Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C, on Wednesday, October 24th, 1928, at
3 p.m.. The President in the chair. There were also present
:
Mr. E. N. Bennett, Professor E. R. Dodds, Mr. J. Arthur
Hill, Sir Ohver Lodge, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. W. H. Salter,
Mrs. W. H. Salter, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
and Dr. V. J. Woolley ;
also. Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
November, 1928 Meetings 351
The Minutes of the Extraordinary General Meeting held on
July 18th, 1928, were presented and signed as correct.
Three questions asked by Mr. Dingwall at the Extraordinary
General Meeting were submitted to the Council and answered,
the Secretary being instructed to write to Mr. Dingwall
accordingly.
Eleven new Members were elected. Their names and
addresses are given above.
Miss Ina Jephson, the Hon. Mrs. Alfred Lyttelton, and
Mr. S. G. Soal were co-opted members of Council for the
year 1928-1929.
The Monthly Accounts for July-September, 1928, were
presented and taken as read.
PEIVATE MEETING.
The 98th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the
Eooms of the Society, 31 Tavistock Square, W.C., on Wednes-
day, October 24th ,
1928, at 5 p.m.. The President in the
chair.
\ A paper entitled " Some Automatic Scripts purporting to
be inspired by a Victorian Poet and Novelist " was read,
Part I., by Mr. W. H. Salter ; and Part IL, by Mr. S. G.
Soal.
^ An interesting discussion followed, in which Colonel Maxwell
Dick, the Kev. J. W. Hayes, Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr. G. R. S.
Mead, and Mr. J. G. Piddington took part.
It is hoped that the paper will be published later in
Proceedings.
THE SEANCE ROOM.
The attention of Members and Associates is called to the
fact that the seance room is available for experiments under
suitable conditions. Applications should be made to the
Secretary.
352 Journal of Society for Psycliical Research November, 1928
CASE.
G. 295
We print below a case of an apparition recently seen at
Briery Hill, Newent, Glos. The apparition was seen by one
percipient only, and beyond the fact that the figure seems
to have borne some general resemblance to members of the
family in whose possession the house has been for a long
time, there does not appear to have been anything veridical
in the experience. Nevertheless, the incident is of a suffi- I
ciently unusual character to be worth putting on record. The
j
case has been investigated by the Rev. W. S. Irving, a 1
Member of the Society, and Mr. F. J. Summers, whose report \
is printed below.
Enquiry into the alleged seeing of an apparition at Briery Hill,
Newent, on, or about. Wed., April Wth, 1928.
On June 6th, 1928, Captain T. C. B. Hooke, of Briery Hill, i
Newent, told me [W. S. Irving] that his House-keeper had recently |
seen an apparition. On June 7th, 1928, I called at Briery Hill, '\
accompanied by Mr. F. J. Summers, and saw the House-keeper,
Mrs. Ind, who kindly gave me the following particulars as to
what she saw : On an evening in April, which was afterwards
calculated by Captain Hooke to have been the evening of Wed.,
April 11th, 1928, Captain Hooke being out, Mrs. Ind went into
his sitting-room, about 9.0 p.m., to light the lamp. The room
is rather a small one, about 13 feet by 13 ; and there is a large
dining-room table to the left front against the wall. On entering
the room, Mrs. Ind placed the candle, which she was carrying,
on a small side table, on the right as you enter the room, and
was crossing to the dining-room table to light the lamp which
was on that table, when she saw the figure of a man, kneeling
j
on the floor, in front of the table, with his head down as though
he was inspecting something on the floor. The figure had his
back turned to her. He was dressed in a stone-grey tunic,
|
rather long and which hung full at the sides. It appeared to j
be fluted. He had knee-breeches, and coarse-ribbed stockings, \
both of stone grey colour. On his head was a skull cap, and
he had long grey hair which lay on his shoulders, and turned
up at the ends. The figure appeared to be solid, and Mrs. Ind
November, 1928 Case 353
could not see Captain Hooke's slippers through him, though he
was kneeling over them. While Mrs. Ind watched, the figure
slowly got up, and, still keeping his back to Mrs. Ind, walked
a few steps towards the left front corner of the room. He then
looked round at Mrs. Ind over his right shoulder, showing that
he had a grey, bony, face. His expression was worried, and not
pleasant, and he looked keen, and sharp. In height he appeared
to be about 5 feet 3 inches. After looking round he disappeared
—faded out. Mrs. Ind described what she had seen to Captain
Hooke directly he got home,^ and Captain Hooke wrote an account
of it to his wife in Town, at once. Mrs. Ind did not notice the
type of collar, or shoes, worn by the apparition, but said, " I
noticed his calves which were very shapely." His hands were
not visible as they were in front. The exact time is fixed
because Mrs. Ind looked at the sitting-room clock directly after
the disappearance of the apparition. It was dark outside, though
the shutters were not drawn, but the candle gave sufficient light
for the details to be noted. Mrs. Ind thought that the face
resembled that of a cousin of Mr. Hooke's.
W. S. Irving.
F. J. Summers.
The above is a correct account of what I saw.
, .
, (Mrs.) F. Ind.
Notes on the above.
Briery Hill Farm is an old house about 2 miles from Newent.
Judging by the style of architecture it is not likely to be less
than 200 years old. The grounds were, at one time, said to
be haunted by a White Lady," but the ghost was " laid
"
many years ago, by several clergy, apparently successfully. Captain
Hooke is a descendant of the Hookes who have been Landowners
in the district for centuries. He claims that they have been
here since the reign of Henry V. Captain Hooke has rented
Briery Hill to Mr. and Mrs. Ind, who are farmers, retaining
rooms for himself when down here, and Mrs. Ind acts as his
House-keeper. Mrs. Ind is an elderly woman, fairly well educated
for a small farmer's wife. She told her story to us quietly, and
without excitement, and we credit her with believing that she
^ It appeared on further enquiry that Mrs. Ind told Captain Hooke of
her experience on the following morning, April 12, 1928,
354 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Novkmbee, 1928
saw what she declares she saw. Once before, twenty years
ago, Mrs. Ind saw what she thought was the ghost of some one
that she knew, but she was out of doors at the time, driving,
and the circumstances were different altogether. In the present
case, it is interesting to note that Mrs. Ind has lived in the
house for 14 to 15 years without having had any similar experi-
ence, and that she was carrying out her ordinary, normal duties,
when she had this experience. She tells us that she was not
frightened, but felt cold, and clammy. The room is a bright
room with a light buff wallpaper. There was no heavy dark
furniture calculated to cause shadows ;
and, although there would
be no moon at the time to give light through the window which
had not been shuttered, the light from the candle would be
sufficient to give quite a good light, and to show such details
as the expression on the face of the apparition. In this case,
we are unable to make any suggestion as to normal causes. The
possibility of Mrs. Ind having been deceived by a reflection of
herself in a mirror seems to be negatived by the details of the
case, and by the statement she has made that she was dressed
in red, and wearing no hat, at the time. Her story, as told to
us, does not seem to differ, in the way of exaggeration, from that
originally told to Captain Hooke.
W. S. Irving.
F. J. Summers.
It will be seen that on the plan given opposite, which is a
plan of the room as seen by Mr. Irving and Mr. Summers,
a leopard-skin rug is marked at the point where the figure
was seen. As the leopard-skin was greyish in colour, it was
thought that this might have given rise to an illusion of a
figure dressed in stone grey. The following question was
therefore put to Mrs. Ind :
The figure was kneeling on a leopard-skin rug which might
have looked stone-colour in the little light there was. Did Mrs.
Ind notice a difference between the rug and the apparition ?
To this question Mrs. Ind replied thus :
It was kneeling on the carpet not the rug. The rug was under
the sofa.
[Signed] F. Ind.
November, 1928 Case 355
The fact that the leopard-skin rug was not by the table
(as marked on the plan) at the time of Mrs. Ind's experience
is confirmed by Captain Hooke in a letter dated June 21st,
1928.
Plan of the Room
SMALL
DESK
FI HE PL AC£
ilk DiSAPPEA REO
LAKGE
MAHOGANy
'=/GURE
MEAD /
OEjSKl/^
L EOPARD SX/N
CANDLE
M'i3 I NO
SIDEBOARD
o
TABLE
P J S
Room approx. 13 x 13. Carpet blue and red.
With reference to the statement that the apparition bore
some resemblance to a cousin of Captain Hooke's, Mr. Irving
and Mr. Simimers write as follows :
June 15, 1928.
We think that Captain Hooke is inclined to attach some im-
portance to the alleged resemblance of the apparition to his
cousin, not because of the likeness to this particular cousin, who
is still living, but because of a possible likeness to an ancestor.
356 Journal of Society for Psychical Research novembkr, 1928
In the time of the Civil War this part of the country was,
for some time, in the thick of the conflict between the Royalist
and Cromwellian troops. There is a tradition that one of the
Hookes hid family treasures at Boulsdon, one of the farms on
his estate, two-thirds of a mile from Briery Hill. It is, however,
possible that Briery Hill may have been called Boulsdon in those
days. This tradition of buried treasure existing has more to
be said for it than most similar traditions. The story has been
handed down in the Hooke family ever since, and many Hookes
—including members of the present generation, have tried at
times to find what they believe to be hidden somewhere, but
it is a pretty hopeless task hunting without any definite clue to
its whereabouts. Before his death Captain Hooke's father told
his son that he hoped that he would have more luck than he
had himself in the search.
W. S. Irving.
F. J. Summers.
When questioned on this point Captain Hooke wrote :
2lst June, 1928.
I do attach some importance to the resemblance of the appari-
tion to my cousin (who has the Hooke type of face) for it rather
goes to prove that the apparition was a Hooke ancestor.
The Crookes Estate of which Briery Hill forms part was given
to my ancestors by Henry V., and many generations of the
Hooke family have lived there.
T. C. B. Hooke.
Captain Hooke, as noted above, wrote an account of Mrs.
Ind's experience to his wife in London immediately after the
matter had been related to him. This letter has not been
preserved, but subsequently Mrs. Hooke made a statement,
as follows :
^itli September, 1928.
In the month of April my husband Captain T. C. B. Hooke
wrote me the following letter :
" I was out to dinner to-night, and on my return Mrs. Ind
met me and said she wished to speak to me alone. She told
me that at about 9 to 9.30 p.m. she went into my sitting room
to draw the curtains, etc., and light the lamp ready for my
return. As she turned from the window she had a queer feeling
November, 1928 Case 357
of deadly cold, and looking towards the table she saw a small
man bending on his knees, his hands groping under the table. He
looked up, and on seeing her, got up slowly, and with one hand
on the table he walked towards the fireplace ;
there, he turned
his head, looking at her over his shoulders and vanished. He was
a very small man, under 5 feet, dressed in long grey coat and
tight fitting short trousers, long stockings, black shoes.^ His
hair was white and rather long, also he was clean-shaven.
I\Irs. Ind did not seem nervous, but kept on repeating the
feeling of cold in the room."
M. HOOKE.
Mr. Irving also made enquiries concerning Mrs. Ind's char-
acter from Dr. W. L. Johnstone of Newent, who has known her
for many years and said that he " considered Mrs. Ind to
be a very sensible, reliable sort of person, and the last person
in the world to '
see '
things."
Captain Hooke was also questioned on this point, and
wrote thus :
10th June, 1928.
With reference to your enquiry as to Mrs. F. Ind's character,
I have known her for 15 years, and always found her honest,
straightforward, and strictly sober, in fact most reliable. I would
further say that she is level-headed and truthful, with plenty of
common sense.
T. C. B. HooKE.
THE REV. AETHUE FOED.
Clairaudient Medium.
[Editorial Note.—The following account of her experience
with the Eev. Arthur Ford has been received from a member
of the Society who prefers to remain anonymous.]
A great deal has appeared in the press from time to time
regarding the mediumship of the Eev. Arthur Ford of
America. In more than one paper he has been described as
one of the foremost of the w^orld's mediums. He was pastor
^ There is a minor discrepancy here. Mrs. Ind told Mr. Irving and Mr.
Summers that she did not notice the shoes (see above). She may have noticed
their colour at the time and forgotten it.
358 Jouriuil of Society Jor Psychical Research Novfmber, 1928
of the first Spiritualist Church in America, and claims to have
spent six years in the study of psychic matters and to have
had sittings with most of the well-known mediums, including
Mrs. Crandon.
After reading in LigJit and other papers articles on his
wonderful clairai;dient powers I attended a public meeting
in London in June 1928, at which he was both speaker
and medium. It seemed rather a strenuous task for one
evening. The address was not very impressive, but his
demonstration of clairaudience given at the close of the
meeting, was, if genuine, quite remarkable. Before the
demonstration began the chairman explained the difference
between clairaudience and clairvoyance, and asked everyone
to remain perfectly silent so that Mr. Ford could hear plainly
what the spirits said to him and pass on the messages to
those concerned. The audience was given to xmderstand that
the medium had no means of knowing who was likely to be
present at this particular meeting, and that therefore the
possibility of confederates was ruled out.
Mr. Ford's method of procedure was as follows :
Medium. Is Peter Ainsworth in the Hall ?
(A gentleman raised his hand).
Med. There is a whole group here for you, your Mother
Mary, your sister Kate, your brothers Robert and
John and your son Ted. Do you recognise them.
Ans. Yes. (This meant of course that only the names
were recognised, there was no description given of
any of the alleged communicators. A clairaudient
medium only hears what is said to him and does
not claim to see the spirits.)
Med. They send their love and greetings.
(Without waiting for any further remarks from the
man addressed he passed on to another name.)
Med. I'm hearing the name Annie Johnson, is she present ?
Ans. Yes.
Med. Your daughter is here, she says her name is Ann. You
are in trouble, are you not ?
Ans. Yes. ......
Med. Well, she says go on, all will be well. I give you that.
November, 1928 The Rev. Arthur Ford 359
During the evening eight or nine people answered to their
names in this way, and recognised other names given to them
as belonging to relatives or friends who had passed over, and
most of them received similar messages of love and greeting.
Apart from the names nothing of a really evidential natm-e
was given. In one or two instances Mr. Ford said to the
member of the audience whose name had been called, " Do
I know you personally ?
" or " Have I ever seen you before ?
"
and each time the answer was in the negative.
At the end of the meeting I asked Mr. Ford if he would
give me a private sitting. He handed me his card and asked
me to write to him. I wrote the next day, and he replied
a week later giving me an appointment at the house where
he was staying. When writing to him I used my maiden
name, knowing that it would be very difficult for anyone
to obtain any information about me rmder this name as it
is known to very few people in London. As far as I know
he had no knowledge of my married name, and I told no one
outside the family of my proposed sitting with him.
At the beginning of the sitting, before going into trance,
he explained that the control was an old friend of his, a French
Canadian named Fletcher, who had passed over some years
ago. He then leant back in his chair, tied a handkerchief
over his face and appeared to go into deep trance.
The sitting lasted exactly 25 minutes, and was very im-
satisfactory from an evidential point of view. Fletcher asked
a great many questions, in fact nearly every statement he
made was put in the form of a question. He gave several
names, only one of which I recognised. This happened to be
" Arthur," the Christian name of my father and eldest brother,
both living. When the medium came out of trance he asked
me whether Fletcher had given me good evidence, and whether
I was convinced. I said that it would take more than one
sitting to convince me, and he laughed and said he was not
surprised. It had taken six years of study to make him a
spiritualist, and he did not expect anyone to be convinced
by one sitting. We discussed the matter for a short time
as he seemed anxious to know how much of what Fletcher
had told me was correct. Before I left he advised me to
860 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November, 1928
attend his next public demonstration, and gave me the date,
saying that Fletcher would probably give me much better
evidence there. I promised to do this. His fee for the
25 minutes was one guinea. .
It should be noted that at the end of my private sitting
Fletcher had, with a considerable amount of help from me,
ascertained the following facts : That both my father and
eldest brother were named Arthur ; that they were both on
the earth plane ; that my youngest brother was killed during
the war ; that a young man I had been engaged to had
passed over suddenly ;
my youngest brother's name and my
own maiden name .
(already known to the medium through
my letter).
On the following Sunday I attended a second public de-
monstration, and, as before, the audience were given to under-
stand that they were all complete strangers to Mr. Ford.
After several names had been called and answered in the *
usual way, without hesitation or mistake, my own name, that
is my maiden name, was called. I answered, and the medium >
proceeded as follows :
Med. There is a spirit here for you, a brother who passed
over during the war, he is giving me the name
Arthur, I think he says it is a father or brother on
the earth plane. He passed over very suddenly.
He sends you greeting and love.
This was all the information I received. The medium
did not wait for any further corroboration from me after
delivering the message but passed quickly on to someone
else. I was very disappointed to find that his power was
in most cases limited to names only and a few rather vague
messages. At the two meetings which I attended he did on
one or two occasions give further evidence which was accepted
as correct, but it was usually a statement that the person
concerned was in trouble or required advice on certain private
matters, and those, after all, would be fairly safe statements
to make about most people who attend Spiritualistic services.
Of course, if one could have been certain that the medium
and the control had absolutely no knowledge whatsoever of
November, 1928 The Rev. Arthur Ford 361
the people whose names were called, it would have been a
very impressive demonstration. But, after my experience of
the private sitting, and knowing also that Mr. Ford
holds an At Home every Wednesday which is open to any
one who cares to go and see him, I could not help wondering
whether some of the other people at the meeting might not
have had private sittings and been asked to attend the public
demonstration, as I was. When I answered to my name it
was naturally taken for granted by the other members of the
audience that I was a complete stranger to Mr. Ford.
It certainly would not be fair to conclude that his medium-
ship is not genuine because on this occasion he gave informa-
tion in public that his control had obtained in private, but
such a proceeding is bound to rouse suspicion. It would be
of great interest to know whether any one else has had the
same experience or whether I was unfortimate on this occasion.
Another thing which caused me to doubt Mr. Ford's
sincerity was a statement made by him in the course of a
lecture at Guildford, to the effect that he had had more fun
and excitement as a Spiritualistic minister in New York
City in five years than he ever could have had as an authorised
clergyman. This seems a curious point of view for a minister
to take, and does not tend to increase one's confidence in
him. Of course, it has nothing to do with his powers as a
medium, but it does suggest that his motives for using those
powers are not of a very high order.
Since writing this article I have heard that Mr. Ford has
given up his work in England and returned to America.
'
ON SOME " CRITICAL " METHODS.
By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
Among the continental writers whose papers I have to read and
report on in my " Notes on Periodicals " in the S.P.R. Journal,
Dr. Emil Mattiesen of Rostock-Gehlsdorf, Germany, figures very
frequently. He is a convinced spiritist, a very prolific writer and
a wide reader. During nearly the whole of last year (1927) he
was publishing in the Hamburg spiritistic monthly, Zeitschrift fiir
362 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Novbmber, 1928
PsycJiische Forschung, a series of articles on trance phenomena with
a very minute, painstaking and detailed analysis of the contents
of trance communications. The numbers of the same review from
March to June 1928 also contained an exhaustive analysis of Miss
Nea Walker's book, The Bridge. A case for Survival (" The White
Case ").
I contented myself in my " Notes " with very short references
to Dr. Mattiesen's writings. I then got a letter from Dr. Mattie-
sen expressing his dissatisfaction with the brevity of my references,
on the ground that the writer had furnished " by the formal
analysis of trance utterances most important and entirely new
grounds " for the spiritistic solution of the problem (as to the
origin of those utterances.)
In answer to this challenge, I have decided to devote a short
paper to Dr. Mattiesen's critical methods, the more so as this
question seems to me to transgress the limits of the personal
incident and to have a bearing on the infinitely more important
problem of the " canons of evidence " in Psychical Research (to
use an expression of the late Professor Henry Sidgwick's).
Contrary, I think, to most writers who have dealt with the
subject. Dr. Mattiesen pays no special attention to the contents
of the trance messages, for, as he casually observes, given medium-
istic " omniscience " we shall hardly be able ever to prove that
the messages have an external origin. It is in the form of these
messages—their internal characteristics, the apparent independence
of the trance personalities from each other, their critical attitude
towards each other, the apparent incomprehension by the " con-
trol " of what the communicator wants to say, the apparent
plurality of autonomous personalities speaking through the entranced
medium—that the author sees evidence of the spiritistic origin of
the communications.
Dr. Mattiesen's arguments seem to me open to two grave
objections. First of all they presuppose throughout the medium's
bona fides. Now I have no wish to impute bad faith to people
a tort et d travers. I am quite willing to admit that a profes-
sional medium may be perfectly honest. But it is one thing for
A. to say point-blank that B. is a fraud, and another to suggest
that B.'s statements cannot be always accepted as gospel truth ;
that a certain caution with regard to them is entirely legitimate.
There can be no doubt that we (I mean psychical researchers)
November, 1928 On Some ''Critical" Methods 3G3
shall refuse to accept evidence for telekinesis or ectoplasm if based
on the testimony of the medium producing the supposed pheno-
mena. But is not transmission of messages to and from the
departed much more contradictory of our everyday experience
than either ectoplasm or telekinesis ? The departed may exist,
they may be communicated with, but this has to be proved. We
are therefore perfectly justified in saying to a person claiming to
act as intermediary between the dead and the living :
" You may
very conceivably tell the truth. But this truth has to be demon-
strated."
It has been objected to me that a hundred years ago the idea
of people being heard when speaking across the Atlantic may well
have been called preposterous ; and yet this idea has come true.
To this I answer that if transatlantic telephony had been advo-
cated on the ground of such " wholesale nonsense " ^ as is furnished
by automatic writing and trance speaking in thousands of experi-
ments, we should have been justified in remaining perfectly sceptical
as to its possibility.
To return for a moment to telekinesis : every group of such
experiments (if worthy of the name) must be judged on its own
merits ;
such is at least my opinion. It follows that if a tele-
kinetic medium has been detected in fraud in a seance of the a
group, groups h and c may remain entirely unaffected. Why ?
Partly for the reason that the telekinetic medium's good faith
played no part whatever in the sittings. But supposing a trance
medium be convicted of deceiving, of " getting up " his or her
facts, what then ? Obviously the whole fabric will tumble down
with the exception of those cases only where adequate precautions
had been taken against fraud.
I wiU mention an incident out of my own experience. Some
seven years ago I made a long series of experiments in what I
will call automatic clairvoyance (saucer and alphabet) with a
Russian young lady in Finland and in Berlin. I have now little
doubt that she attempted to cheat me repeatedly if not syste-
matically. Had I relied all the time on her bonafides alone, I should
have to cast overboard the whole of the experiments. As a
matter of fact, at the very first sitting there occurred an incident
^This expression is Prof. Richet's : Proc. S.P.R., vol. xxxiv., p. 110.
Quod licet Jovi non licet bovi : by quoting this sentence I do not necessarily
imply that I entirely agree with M. Richet's castigation.
864 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November, 1928
which has preserved for me all its evidential cogency up to the
present day. This incident (the reading of the number of a page
in a book opened at random under excellent conditions) remains
entirely unaffected by all subsequent developments unfavourable
to " Nadia Y." ^
On the other hand let us turn to another incident in my
experience: the group of the " Mainoff " messages. ^ In these
messages we had what I considered, and am inclined to consider
still, excellent evidence of cryptomnesia. In particular " Mainoff,"
in answer to a request for an identity test, wrote that he had
attended Paul Broca's lectures. Neither M. Kasnakoff (" C")
nor I (there were no other sitters) had any knowledge of this fact,
but I subsequently ascertained that it was mentioned in an
obituary notice published in the biggest St. Petersburg newspaper
immediately after the Russian ethnologist's death in February
1888. This notice may therefore have caught M. Kasnakoff's
eye or my own or both at the time, this impression remaining
buried in our minds for upwards of twelve years up to the moment
of the seance. I have not the slightest reason for suspecting
M. Kasnakoff's lona fides; and yet I doubt whether in the present
state of our researches such an incident may be regarded as
scientifically evidential. If I am inclined to adopt such a stand-
point in a case like M. Kasnakoff's, the more so in a case where
the medium is a professional one and interested in his or her
mediumistic reputation being maintained. (This and not the ques-
tion of remuneration seems to me to be the chief point at issue.)
This side of the problem is completely ignored by Dr. Mattiesen,
who, with the greatest care, analyses the trance-utterances of
various professional trance-mediums but assumes throughout the
genuineness of these utterances.
Among the trance-mediums repeatedly mentioned by Dr.
Mattiesen (in fact he derives from her sittings some of his most—
to him—valuable facts) is Mrs. Thompson. This shows how
utterly precarious the whole ground is and how arbitrary the
selections made. For the late Dr. Hodgson did not believe in
iCf. Zeitschrift fur Kritischen Okkullisyrm is .
Band I., Heft 2, pp. 81-99.
^Journal S.P.R., vol. x, p. 70, and Zeitschrift fur Kritischen Okhultismus,
Band III., Heft 2, p. 123. It should be noted that so far as I can
remember Broca's Christian name was not mentioned in the obituary notice,
though, of course, I might have learnt it from another source.
November, 1928 On Some "Critical" Metliods 365
Mrs. Thompson's genuineness.^ Now this does not necessarily
mean that he was altogether right. I am told that he had but
six seances with Mrs. Thompson who in the opinion of other
investigators gave on several occasions evidence of supernormal
knowledge and therefore cannot be said to have been altogether
discredited with the S.P.R. So far so good. Still the fact
remains that an investigator whom Dr. Mattiesen constantly
quotes expresses, in a paper which Dr. M. has most undoubtedly
read, grave doubts—whether rightly or wrongly—as to a trance
medium whom the German critic mentions over and over again.
And yet these suspicions are passed over altogether in silence by
Dr. Mattiesen !
The following instance will show to what assumptions we are
driven at times by Dr. Mattiesen's analyses. Mrs. White dies on
July 12th, 1924. On September 12th, that is exactly three
months later, Miss Nea Walker has a sitting with Mrs. Leonard,
which sitting is the first after the death. Dr. Mattiesen assumes
without further ado that " Feda " " naturally " ^ knew nothing of
the death, and after an exhaustive discussion of the incidents of
the sitting based on so strange an assumption, observes that
another instance more conclusive of the spirit hypothesis could
hardly have been quoted. Poor hypothesis indeed if unsupported
by better evidence !
This extraordinary assumption of ignorance reminds one of such
a case as Mr. John Hart (George Pelham's friend) dying at Naples
on May 2nd, 1895, and of Dr. Hodgson having a seance with
Mrs. Piper on May 4th. At this sitting " John Hart " com-
municates and speaks of his death ; but in order to attribute to
this message a supernormal origin we must assume that a notice
of his demise which appeared the day before in a Boston paper
has remained unknown to Mrs. Piper.^ I am quite ready to
believe that this may have been so, but nevertheless is it not
obvious that the incident is perfectly worthless, scientifically
speaking ?
I will quote but one more instance illustrative of Dr. Mattie-
sen's methods. He is speaking of cases where the " communi-
cators " are misunderstood in an " acoustic-phonetic " sense by the
"Proc. S.P.R., vol. xvii, pp. 138-162.
^ Zeitschn'ft fur Psychische Forschung, June 1928, p. 182.
^ Proc. S.P.R. , vol. xiii, pp. 353-357.
366 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November, 1928
controls, in which circumstance he sees one of the many types of
evidence of the independent existence of the trance-personalities.
Reference is made to a Piper sitting of February 15th, 1897,
where " Rector " communicates and says he has been sent by
" Imperator " " to meet a man called Hogman." Dr. Hodgson
says his name is Hodgson. " Rector " apologises and gives to
understand that he meant " Hodgson." ^ To convinced spiritists
such an incident may prove conclusive. To a psychical researcher
of even moderately critical views it will appear of doubtful cogency.
For where is the proof that we have not to deal here with " a
piece of refined comedy "
—an explanation Dr. Mattiesen himself
suggests but discards.
There is another aspect of Dr. Mattiesen's treatment of the
subject which is equally calculated to deprive his work of scientific
value. Science is no plaidoyer. In a scientific treatise we must
have before us the pro and the contra. There is nothing of this
sort in Dr. Mattiesen's analysis. He brings forth all the mastery
of his dialectics to prove his theses—and that is all. The opposite
side is ignored. We read nothing^ of all the fishing, guessing, of
all the discrepancies, contradictions, absurdities, etc., which abound
in the records of trance-j^henomena, of " spirits " forgetting their
own names and other particulars of which they could not be
ignorant if they were the personalities they pretended to be.
A series of articles (November 1927-February 1928) is indeed
entitled :
" Difficulties in trance-phenomena as a spiritistic argu-
ment," but these schwierigkeiten have nothing to do with the
shortcomings of the trance-personalities. They deal with the
difficulties supposed to be encountered by them in manipulating
the medium's organism. Needless to add that in that most
suspicious circumstance, the avoiding of names. Dr. Mattiesen sees
nothing suspicious at all and in fact dwells on it but very little.
But I may be permitted here a short digression.
I am under the impression that this avoidance of names is of
rather recent origin and must have coincided with the moment
when names began to be particularly insisted on by obnoxious
researchers as " tests." That sooner or later a quasi-" scientific
"
Zeitschrift fur Psychische Forschung, June 1927, p. 175; Proc. S.P.R.,
vol. xxviii, p. 411.
- With the exception of four or five lines on p. 69 of Z. f. Ps. Forschung,
March 1927.
November, 1928 On Some " Critical " Metlwds
explanation of this peculiarity should have been forthcoming is of
course but natural : given a " fact " in which people are anxious
to believe, its alleged raison d'etre is sure some day to be formulated.
But here is another instance of that extraordinary variety of " laws
"
in the domain of Spiritism which is so perplexing. For Stainton
Moses's " controls " simply pelted him at times with Christian
names, surnames, and dates (also disliked as a general rule), and in
my own experience in automatic writing (with friends) I have
constantly been submerged by names. These seem therefore to be
eluded chiefly when used as " tests."
To return to Dr. Mattiesen : he is acquainted with Mrs. Sidg-
wick's admirable paper in Vol. XV. of Proceedings (and in fact
speaks of her in the words of the highest praise). It is therefore
the more to be regretted that he completely ignores that part of
the paper in which she so forcibly brings forward those points
which tell against the spirit hypothesis. Of it Dr. Mattiesen's
readers will know nothing. They will know nothing of Miss
Hannah Wild's " spirit " dictating to her sister (still " in the
flesh ") the contents of a sealed letter, which, when opened,
contains nothing of the kind. Dr. Wiltse communicates and
informs the sister that he is dead and that his body is in the
water. He subsequently proves to be alive and well.^ In 1895 a
certain Mr. M. communicates (also through Mrs. Piper), and Miss
Edmunds, Dr. Hodgson's secretary, has two sittings on behalf of
the widow. The " spirit " is asked for his name, unknown both to
medium and sitter ; at first it is given correctly, but Miss E.
having expressed some doubt, another—and an incorrect one—is
written, and subsequently this error is persisted in.^ " Eector,"
" Imperator," etc., give through the Boston medium as having
been theirs a string of names having nothing in common with
those given through Stainton Moses. A series of sittings for
establishing " supernormal " communication between the Piper
controls and those of another medium fails egregiously, though
the former maintain that they have been visiting the English
circle, have given and received messages, etc.^ When asked by a
friend different questions as to his MS. work " One and Many,"
" George Pelham "—who according to a statement made in the
private letter of an eminent Psychical Researcher long deceased
iProc. S.P.E., vol. XV., p. 2.5. - Proc. 8.P.B., vol. xv., p. 27.
3 Proc. S.P.R., vol. XV, p. 30.
368 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November, 1928
did more to prove survival than any man since Adam—gives a
series of statements about the number of pages, the chapters, the
front-page, the first sentence, etc., all proving false. ^ Not to
mention the incredible rubbish in which the Piper spirits indulged
when talking on " scientific " subjects.^
Now all this does not necessarily prove that the spirit-hypothesis
has absolutely no foundation. But it is a good, a typical instance
of the other, the negative side of the problem, a side which
Dr. Mattiesen has comj^letely ignored.
It seems to me therefore that I have justified my position to-
wards Dr. Mattiesen's writings in my " Notes on Periodicals."
For these writings have but the appearance of science ;
they are
in fact nothing of the kind, though I willingly admit that they
have other qualities which make them conspicuous in contemporary
spiritistic literature. Now, in my criticisms in the domain of
Psychical Research I strive to the best of my knowledge after a
scientific standard, and it was for that reason that I attached little
importance to Dr. Mattiesen's argumentation. His challenge has
compelled me to modify my attitude, and I am much obliged to
him for giving me the opportunity of expressing my opinion on a
question which seems to me by no means without general interest.
NOTE ON AN EARLY EXPOSURE OF GUZIK.
The attention of psychical researchers of Western Europe having
been called since some five or six years to the Polish medium
Jan Guzik, the following facts may be of interest. In 1904-1905
I published a Russian translation of Mr. Podmore's Modern
Sfiritualism. To this I added a " Supplement " in two parts,
the second comprising a series of " Sketches " from the history
of Spiritism in Russia. Among those sketches there was one
devoted to the late Sambor and Guzik. Accidentally it so happens
that I have now a copy of this " Supplement " in my possession,
though I left in Russia the whole of my excellent library. From
the pages of the " Supplement " dealing with Guzik it follows
that his name was mentioned for the first time in the Russian
epiritistic press (Rebus) in 1898. I quote there two accounts of
1 Proc. S.P.R., vol. xiii., p. 334.
^ See Mrs. Sidgwick's paper in Proc. S.P.R., vol. xv.
NovEMBEE, 1928 Note on an Early Exposure of Guzih 369
seances with Guzik (1899 and 1902) and analyse them. I note
that his phenomena consist chiefly of " touches," sometimes
very rough ones, and movements of chairs and tables along the
floor ; that movements of objects ajDparently produced by hands
are mentioned more seldom ; that G.'s hands are by no means
always held in the strict sense of the word, and that the (very
rare) accounts of visible forms appearing are eminently apt to
mislead persons not having taken part in the sitting. I then
dwell on the utterly inadequate character of the control consisting
of luminous paint being applied to the objects to be (" tele-
kinetically '") moved, instead of the medium's limbs, and call
attention to the importance of the position of the latter's feet,
which circumstance, I say, is generally passed over in silence.
I insist on the unsatisfactory character of the control of feet by
feet, an instructive instance being quoted from my own experience
(with G.). Two cases are then quoted by me from the Rebus
(1899) where the identity of the " mysterious organ or being,"
touching the medium's neighbours, with G.'s own foot was proved
beyond the shadow of a doubt. Reference is then made to my
own experiments with the Polish medium in the winter of 1901-
1902 (in St. Petersburg), where the fixing of luminous stripes of
calico to the medium's trousers entirely stopped the phenomena.
The whole tone of my remarks is thoroughly ironical and sceptical,
which is the more significant as at the time (1905) I was not by
any means an out-and-out sceptic as to Physical Phenomena.
Several years later I again exposed Guzik in at least one
article in the Rebus. So far as I can remember, I argued there
that G. will avail himself at his seances of any methods which
are to him accessible. If inadequately held his hands will be
used. If the hand-control is satisfactory, he will use his feet.
If the control is thoroughly good, he will give a blank sitting
(an undoubted privilege a medium has over a conjurer). That
occasionally G. will use his hand I knew already at the time
by experience : at a sitting held in the beginning of 1910, the
notorious Chamberlain X. " controlling " G. on one side, the medium
was caught by the hand which X. had liberated (as to this
gentleman see Proc. S.P.R., Vol. xxv, pp. 434-37, Journal S.P.R.,
Vol. xxi, p. 201, and Zeitschrift fiir Kritischen Okkultismus, II. Band,
4 Heft, pp. 249-258).
From the outset, however, my impression was that G.'s feet
370 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November, 192S
were chiefly instrumental in originating the phenomena. In this
he undoubtedly upholds the tradition of Modern Spiritualism. The
medium's lower extremities were, I suspect, very active from the
beginning of the movement,^ and Frau Silbert's are, I believe,
up to the present day (cf. Dr. Walter F. Prince's Experiments with
Physical Mediums in Europe, p. 79).
The chief point about Guzik is, I believe, this : not only
are his " manifestations " most suspicious, but they are of very
little interest. Other fraudulent mediums have at least pro-
pounded riddles to the researcher, have puzzled people, have had
a certain mysterious nimbus surrounding them. About this
Polish ex-workman there is nothing of the kind. His phenomena
have been exposed over and over again : they cease altogether as
soon as adequate precautions against cheating are taken ; in the
vast majority of cases what occurs can be explained without any
difficulty. There is no mystery about Guzik at all ; or rather
there is only one mystery : that he should have been able to
enlist the interest of very distinguished representatives of the
world of Science. That is puzzling indeed !
P.-P.-S.
Note.—Guzik has died since the above was written.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of The Journal of the S.P.R.
17 RoTHERwiCK Road,
London, N.W. 11, 22,rd October, 1928.
Dear Madam,—In the Notice of the Extraordinary General
Meeting circulated by the Council in June 1928 there occurs a
^ The late A. N. Aksakoff more than once told me that the raps I used to
produce by striking the floor with the toes of my left foot (cf. Jour. S.P.R.
,
vol. vi, pp. 120-22) were closely similar to those he had heard with
Kate Fox-Jencken. In Robert Dale Owen's Debatable Land the facsimile
is given of a piece of " direct " writing obtained under the table with
Mrs. Underbill (the eldest of the Fox sisters) : that it was made by the
feet (or one foot) is obvious. That D. D. Home in at least one celebrated
instance used his foot to simulate the grasp of a spirit-hand and was caught
in flagrante seems very probable. That he went on availing himself of the
same method later is also probable, and is repeatedly suggested by some
of the incidents occurring at his sittings.
November, 1928 Correspondence 371
statement that " Mr. Grondahl has requested that his name be
withdrawn " from the list of signatories.
I am not aware of having at any time expressed the wish
that my name should be withdrawn, although I agreed with the
signatories that, since a Committee had been appointed to consider
alterations in the Articles of Association, a postponement of the
Extraordinary General Meeting was desirable. This postponement
implied that the requisition was not at the time being made, a
fact brought out clearly at the Meeting itself when it was
announced that the Proposers of the Resolutions did not intend
to move any of them until the Committee had reported.
Yours faithfully,
J. C. Grondahl.
[We gladly give Mr. Grondahl this opportunity of explaining
his position. Any further comment seems superfluous.
—
Ed.]
REVIEW.
Die Prohleme der Einheit und der Spaltung des Ich. By T. K.
Oesterreich. Stuttgart, W. Kohlhammer, 1928. Pp. viii, 39.
Prof. Oesterreich tells us that his pamphlet on the unity and
dissociation of the self is the first of a series of j^ublications on
philosophy and psychology which is to include the dissertations
of his pupils, and that it represents the substance of papers
read by him to the International Congress of Psychology at
Groningen in 1926 and to the Paris Congress of Psychical Research
in 1927. In the course of his discussions Prof. Oesterreich makes
a number of bold and interesting suggestions, such as that the
" dissociations " may be creative changes in the real (p. 32), that
a truly radical empiricism must regard the selfhood of the psychic
as evolved (p. 33), and that the counterpart to the dissociation
of a mind is its fusion with another (higher or lower), and that
of this process also empirical evidence may be found (pp. 28-9).
He also explains, very candidly, why he still prefers the " animist
"
explanation of psychical phenomena to the " spiritist," while
admitting the latter's superior simphcity. The belief in demonology
and witchcraft did so much harm in the past that an academic
personage should be very careful before saying anything that
could be taken as an endorsement of spiritism (p. 25). True,
372 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November, 1928
doubtless, but what a light it throws on the element of humbug
in academic life, for all its professions of a " disinterested "'
search
for truth ! I agree with Prof. Oesterreich also in looking to
psychical research for instruction as to the nature and constitution
of the self or soul. The efforts of philosophy to deal with this
problem have so far resulted only in dismal and almost un-
mitigated failure.
F. C. S. Schiller.
We have received two more pamphlets in the same series
:
Die psychologischen Grundlagen der Yogapraxis, by Eichard Rosel,
and Ein Vergleich der Buddhistischen Versenkung mit den jesuitischen
Exerzitien, by Karl Schumacher.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Zeitschrift fur Psychische Forschung, August 1928.
Dr. Mattiesen brings to a close his study of the " internal
breathing " of the mystics. No evidential facts are mentioned.
Dr. Walther Kroner's report on the Insterburg clairvoyance
case, in a further instalment, deals this time with three concrete
episodes : the Kudlig murder case, the Kaluza murder case
and the Kaschnicki case. As presented these incidents seem
certainly very remarkable ; but one would like to know what the
other side would say. In the Kaschnicki episode there seems
to be no reasonable doubt that the dead body was in fact found
in a lake at a spot pointed out by Frau Giinther-Geffers, or quite
close to it ; still Dr. Kroner admits that the case has not been
completely cleared up. A very striking feature of Frau G.-Gr.'s
behaviour (in a trance-state) in connection with the " clairvoyant
"
discovery of crimes committed is its close similarity to the
behaviour of police dogs when on the track of a criminal and
of other sensitives in such instances as those mentioned in the
Journal, Nov. 1927, p. 145. (However, vide infra.)
A case of alleged prophecy to a Fraulein K. is related and
commented upon at length by Prof. Dr. Christoph Schroder. To
me it seems obvious that the explanation is due to a fortuitous
coincidence.
Prof. Max Selling prints an account of some supernormal
experiences by Baroness Anna von Peyron, a Swedish lady who
XOTEMBEB, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 373
died in 1898 and who was personally acquainted with jVIrs.
d'Esperance, the well-known medium : the latter has sent Hofrat
Selling the MS. containing the account. The experiences of
a spontaneous character narrated are impressive. The Baroness
also claims to have recognised her deceased son at a materialisa-
tion seance of j\Irs. d'Esperance's. Such recognitions have always
seemed to me rather ]Duzzling ;
still, as I said elsewhere, we have
here a psychological not a metapsychical riddle.
Prof. Dr. Christoph Schroder prints with lengthy comments
selections from results obtained in the course of 68 seances
Avith six different sensitives partly hypnotised, chiefly a certain
Herr Max Rautenberg. The experiments described consisted
mainly in the identification of plaving cards and visiting cards
on which the sensitive had been made (through suggestion) to see
a hallucinatory portrait or coin. The conditions seem to have
been quite satisfactory so far as the exclusion of ordinary channels
of perception was concerned, and the results of some sittings
exceed enormously what chance could have produced. Strangely
enough, however, no data are given in this respect as to the
whole series of experiments, and this leaves the critical reader
somewhat perplexed ; but possibly this gap will be fiUed up
later on.
Zeitschrift fiir ParapsycJiologie, September 1928.
Dr. von Schrenck-Xotzing has a paper on spontaneous Physical
Phenomena (" Spuk "), with general considerations. A series of
cases is reviewed beginning with the Ylojarvi case of 188-5. The
writer thinks we are much more backward in the study of these
phenomena than in that of any other branch of " Parapsychology."
An incident said to have occurred at a recent stance of Rudi
Schneiders (p. 517), where the medium, it is alleged, became
aware of a sitter's first sceptical then friendly attitude, though
not expressed in words, has reminded me of an episode happening
at one of Sambor's sittings in 1902. At a certain moment he
( in trance ") asked me to sit next to him, after which a " chair-
threading " experiment which was proceeding succeeded brilliantly
(on the other side of the medium). I was very anxious to see
it succeed and Sambor knew it.
Dr. Romer of Leipzig has a paper on the religious convictions
(said to be very intense) of a female medium of Hermannstadt
374 Journal of Society for Psychical JResectrc^ Novembee, 1928
(Transylvania, Rumania), and Dr. Otto Seeling, of Berlin, dis-
cusses the recent evidence for the alleged clairvoyance of a Frau
Hessel (Leipzig), which evidence does not seem to him altogether
adequate.
Herr Florizel von Reuter relates briefly a series of striking
episodes (names given) connected with his mother's automatic
writings. Dr. Walter F. Prince is mentioned as a sitter. My
only comment will be : let Frau von R.'s alleged mediumship
be, if possible, scientifically investigated at once ; we must
obviously suspend our judgment until this has been done.
A brilliant lecture of Prof. Driesch's on " Life-Death-Immorta-
lity " is reproduced verbatim.
Frau M. Silbert, of Graz, is the subject of a polemic between
Prof. Seitz, of Munich (sceptic), and Prof. Walter, of Graz (ardent
believer).
Dr. R. Tischner, of Munich, has an interesting paper on Dr.
Paul Gibier's very old (1886) experiments with Henry Slade, and
thinks the phenomena observed by the author of Le Spiritisme ou
Fakirisme Occidental may well have been authentic. It should
be noted in this connection—a fact very little known—that in
1878, that is either immediately after or during the Zollner series
of experiments, Slade entirely^ failed to convince M. AksakofE
of the genuineness of at least his most striking phenomena. The
latter even arrived at the conclusion that the true medium
in the Leipzig experiments was not Slade but Prof. Zollner,
the former being endowed with some " catalytic " power favourably
reacting on Zollner's mediumistic faculties. As for the St. Peters-
burg experiments, they produced in M. Aksakoff a feeling of
profound disappointment. No detailed account of them was
ever published because M. Aksakofi, as he told me, wished to
spare Slade's reputation after the prestige brought him by the
Leipzig stances ! Of course, all this has but an indirect bearing
on both the Zollner and the Gibier sittings ; still it is of con-
siderable if not of decisive importance for appraising the Slade
performances at their true value.
From a note on Therese Neumann in Kleine Mitteilungen we
learn that the phenomena have reappeared, and that she was
visited lately by several high ecclesiastical dignitaries ; from which
it follows that the attitude of the Roman Catholic Church in
1 Barring some relatively minor incidents.
NOVEMBEE, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 2,1b
this question appears to have become decidedly favourable to
tie seeress. P.-P.-S.
The British Journal for Psychical Research, July-August, 1928.
The Number opens with a report of a lecture given by Mr.
^ E. Fothergill on " The Curse of Tut-Ankh-Amen." The lecturer
with some cautious reservations is inclined to the belief that
Lord Carnarvon's death was in some sense a result of the ^-iolation
of Tut-Ankh-Amen's tomb, and quotes, as offering some analogy,
the well-known incidents supposed to be connected with a
mummy-case at the British Museum. No evidence is given
which is likely to shake an unbeliever, and the Editor himself
suggests in a note on the lecture that in such cases we have to do
with a coincidence rather than a curse.
Mr. F. von Renter contributes an account of a sitting with
Eudi Schneider at Braunau. x4.ll that need be said here is that
including the medium ten persons were present at the sitting, of
whom five were members of the Schneider family, a circumstance
which—however satisfactory the conditions may have been in other
I respects—almost completely destroys the scientific value of the
evidence.
J\lrs. Leaning has a further instalment of her article on ex-
corporeal consciousness," and there is an account of a case (the
Kerrigan Case) in which the dead body of a woman who had
been missing for three weeks and had committed suicide is said
to have been found by a " psychic " who was led to the body
by a vision. The incident, which occurred in Indiana in 1927,
is interesting, but a much more detailed statement is required
if the reader is to form any judgment as to what the evidence
for supernormal knowledge amounts to.
Psychic Research, July 1928.
The Number opens with an article by Mr. Harry Price on
^ " Some Personal Experiences with j\Irs. Anna Rasmussen." We
propose to discuss Mrs. Easmussen's mediumship in a later issue.
Monsieur Rene Sudre in an article entitled " The Role of the
Forgotten in Psychical Research," discusses the experiments in
telepathy carried out by the Polish psychologist Abramowski.
The particular form of experiment devised by Abramowski is
based upon his conception of the close analogy existing between
the emergence into consciousness of a telepathic impression and
376 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November, 1928
the recovery of a memory, the chief difference consisting in the
fact that the first comes originally from without, the second
from within. One of Abramowski's experiments was to repeat
to a large number of percipients three chosen words (an example
given by M. Sudre is owl, moon, cross), and then to endeavour
by mental concentration to induce them to name a particular
one of the three words. In the example given the success
obtained seems to have been decidedly above chance, namely
63 per cent. In some other cases in which a different kind
of word was used, e.g. three proper names, the success obtained
was not above chance.^
An article by Dr. R. J. Tillyard on " The Normal Production
of Psychic Gloves " is reproduced with abridgments from the
British Journal of Psychical Research, Jan.-Feb. 1928. This article
has already been noticed (Joiir. S.P.R., Vol. XXIV. p. 295). Mrs.
Leaning has an article on " The Survival of Animals " in which
she discusses a number of cases of apparitions or phantoms of
animals, many of which were reported originally in the Society's
Journal. Mrs. Leaning's point of view is indicated in the following
quotations :
My proposition is that within the limits inherent in the
subject the evidence for animal survival matches point for
point with the human. It corresponds so closely that if
we invalidate the one, we invalidate the other. . . . Consider-
ing that we cannot fix the limit where our own sub-human
ancestors may have developed a surviving principle, or even
- just where the animal kingdom as a whole, shades off into the
vegetable, we may excuse ourselves from an attempt to map
these dim borderlands of nature.
There are further instalments of Dr. Burns's " A Case of
Apparent Obsession" and Dr. Mark Richardson's " Experime nts
in Thought-Transference" (the Margery Case). We hope to print
later a discussion of Dr. Burns's Report by Dr. W. F. Prince.
H. de G. S
^An account of these experiments wOl be found in Abramowski's " Le
Subconsoient Norma]," Alcan, 1918.
No. 450.—Vol,. XXIV. December, 1928.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i,
. ~
^ ON
WEDNESDAY, January gth, 1929, af 5 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" Some Incidents occurring at Sittings with
Mrs. Leonard which may throw hght
on the modus operandi
"
WILL BE READ BY
Mrs. W. H. SALTER.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates ivill be admitted on signing tlieir na?nes at tJie door.
37iS Journal of Society for Psychical i2esea.rc/i December, 1928
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING.
Preliminary Announcement.
The Annual General Meeting of tke Society (for business
purposes only) will be held on Thursday, January 31st, 1929,
at 3.30 p.m., at the Society's Rooms, 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1.
OBITUARY.
Viscountess Grey of Fallodon.
Lady Grey, who suddenly became unconscious and died at her
home, Wilsford Manor in the Avon Valley north of Salisbury,
on Sunday afternoon the 18th November, frequently attended
meetings of the S.P.R., and had all her life been keenly in-
terested in the subject, having originally acquired some know-
ledge of it from her father, the Hon. Percy Wyndham of
Clouds, Wiltshire. A devoted mother, and a powerful friend
to the distressed and sorrowful, she was the author of books
about peaceful village life, and a special lover of birds and
animals. She had a keen sense of beauty, an appreciation of
all human relationships, and was adored by her family and
neighbours. Of her eldest son killed in the war she wrote a
memoir entitled Echmrd Wy^idham Tennant by Pamela Glen-
conner (John Lane) in which, as well as in a subsequent still
more personal volume The Earthern Vessel, she gave many
touching details of family life. In the memoir are included
many of her son's poems, one in facsimile which he wrote for
her at the age of five ; and in an appendix is added a self-
revealing poem by herself, entitled Hester, which constitutes a
permanent and beautiful representation of maternal feeling at
the coming and going of a late and longed-for child.
Life for her was vivid, its cessation unthinkable ;
neverthe-
less she welcomed evidence for survival, and, through many
channels, evidence of a striking character was vouchsafed to
her. The family shared her interest and respected her enthu-
siasm ; a kind of sober joy in her reunion with those she had
lost, mingled with a sense of irretrievable loss for those left
Decembkh, 1928 Obituary 379
behind, dominated tlie funeral service at Wilsford. Flowers in
profusion, friends in every rank of life, and an absence of
gloom, were the prevalent features. It was felt that her
opportunities for loving service would continue under those new
conditions which she was so well prepared to meet however
suddenly the summons came.
0. J. L.
CASE.
L. 1286. A Telepathic Dream.
We print below a report of dream of apparently telepathic
origin, the dreamer being Mr. Dudley F. Walker, of 18 Shep-
herd's Hill, Stoughton, near Guildford. The dream occurred
late on the night of Wednesday, June 27th, 1928, at about
the time of the railway disaster near DarUngton, and a short
account of it appeared in the Daily Mail of July 2nd. The
Rev. A. T. Fryer, an Honorary Associate of the Society, there-
upon wrote to Mr. Walker, asking for further particulars, as
follows :
July 2, 1928.
In the Daily Mail of this date there is an account of your
dream of the Darlington railway accident last week. On behalf
of the Society for Psychical Eesearch may I ask whether it
would be possible for you to supply more definite information of
the dream ? It would be a great service to science if you would
kindly do so. I append a few questions of the kind which have
to be asked by investigators, and I hope you will not find the
inquiry too troublesome. I shall be grateful for your help.
Yours faithfully,
A. T. Fryer.
i. May we have the written and signed evidence of any persons
to whom the dream was related before the newspaper announce-
ments appeared ?
ii. Have you ever had a similar dream ?
iii. Do you know Darlington or persons living there ?
iv. Was there an account of the dream written directly after
it happened ?
V. Have you had any experience of railway management ?
380 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December, 1928
vi. Had anything happened in your daily vocation the day
before the dream to make you think of railway affairs ?
To this letter Mr. Walker replied as follows :
July 4, 1928.
Thanks for your letter of the 2nd inst., and I shall be only
too pleased to assist you in any way I can.
I enclose a sheet in which I have dealt with your questions in
order, signed by myself. I also inclose a full account of the
letter I sent to the press, but which was only published in full
by the local paper (the Daily Mail cutting some out).
I also enclose signed statements from the persons to whom I
told my dream, my mother receiving the fullest account, while
I had it fresh in my mind.
This is a perfectly genuine experience, and I am quite willing
to relate personally my experience to anyone who cares to call
and see me.
I might mention it has made a deep impression on my mind,
and although I have never given serious thought to this subject,
I am now perfectly convinced that this was no ordinary dream.
It was so remarkably true to life that it seemed more like a
vision of events taking place, than the average dream.
Everyone seems firmly of the opinion that I actually witnessed
the tragedy at the time it happened, in some other form than
my physical body. I must confess that during the dream, at
the time the two trains met, I had an awful feeling of horror,
and that it was my fault ; due to the fact no doubt, that I was
under the impression that I Avas the signalman who let the train
through. I clearly did see the red signal light change to green
as the train approached. In view of the strange evidence of
the signalman at the enquiry, it is all the more remarkable, for
it would appear that, he too, had a feeling that something was
wrong due to a clicking noise. I am certain this was no ordinary
accident, and have felt considerable upset since. The main
question which has puzzled me is : Why should I, out of all
the millions in England asleep at that time, be picked out to
witness this ghastly sight. There appears no answer to this.
I shall be pleased to assist you further in any way I can.
Yours faithfully,
Dudley F. Walker.
December, 1928 Case 381
Replies to Me. Fryer's Questions.
Question (1).
Written and signed evidence of persons to whom dream M^as
told before the news was known, are enclosed.
Question (2). Have you ever had a similar dream ?
No. Never of an event which has actually taken place.
Question (3). Do you hnoiv Darlington or persons living there ?
No. Have never been anywhere near this part. I know no-one
living there at all to my knowledge.
Question (4). Was there an account of the dream written directly
after it happened ?
No ; not an account, until the news was known that there
had been an accident ; but there was a personal entry made
in my diary directly after the dream, and also a small, rough
pencil sketch made showing how the two trains met, and the
perspective at which I witnessed the collision (from above).
The first full written account was made immediately I saw how
closely my dream resembled the accident. This was sent at once
to the Daily Mail and the local paper.
Question (5). Have you had any experience of railway management?
No, nothing whatever. I have always taken a keen interest
in our railways, and particular the Great Western, mainly due
to the fact that I have travelled several long distance journeys on
it. I have always admired our English railways, and they have
.always had my sympathy and appreciation of their splendid
efficiency. I enjoy travelling on long distance trains.
Question (6). Had anything happened in your daily vocation the
day before the dream to make you think of railway affairs ?
No—nothing at all. I did not think, or read, or discuss
anything to do with railway matters for at least three days
before the dream. I have travelled by road for months past
now, and only have travelled by train twice since this time
last year. That being to London and back once in March
(March 8th, 1928). In July 1927 I went to West Cornwall and
back, for three weeks' holiday. I go there next week again.
All the above answers are true to the best of my knowledge
and belief.
Dudley F. Walker.
July 1928.
382 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Decembeu, 1028
With these statements by Mr. Walker was enclosed the
following account of his dream as sent to the Surrey Advertiser
on Thursday, June 28th, 1928 : .
,
I write this letter with extremely mixed feelings. I have just
read in to-night's evening papers details of the terrible train
smash at Darlington.
Judge my emotion when I tell you that I actually dreamed
of the whole of this disaster, substantially accurate in all details,
last night, at approximately the same time it happened (between
11 and 12 p.m.). So impressed was I with the dream that
when I came down this morning I told my mother that had I
been leaving immediately for a railway journey I should not have
travelled, as it seemed like a premonition. Little did I imagine
it had actually taken place.
I then related the details to my mother, for they were as clear,
and true to life as a cinema film.
There were the significant features of my dream (omitting
details) :
I was in an overhead signal box, extending over a railway
line 1 had never seen before. It was night, and I saw approach-
ing what I knew was an excursion train, full of people, returning
from some big function. I knew it was my duty to signal this
train through, which I did, but at the same time I had a feeling
that the train was doomed. (I have nothing to do with railway
work.)
In my dream I seemed to hover in the air, and follow the
express, as it slowed to round a loop line. As it approached
a station I saw, to my horror, another small train on the same
line. Although they seemed both travelling slowly, they met
with terrible impact. I saw the express and its coaches pitch
and twist in the air, and the noise was terrible. Afterwards,
I walked beside the wreckage in the dim light of dawn, vieAving
with a feeling of terror the huge overturned engine and smashed
coaches, I was now amid an indescribable scene of horror, with
dead and injured people, and rescue workers everywhere.
Most of the bodies lying by the side of the track were those
of women and girls. As I passed with some unknown person
leading me I saw one man's body in a ghastly state, lifted out
and laid on the side of an overturned coach.
Decembkk, 1928 Case '
383
I
— \
I distinctly heard a doctor say :
" Poor chap, he's dead." Some
other voice said : "I believe I saw his eyelids move." Then
the doctor said :
" It is only your nerves ; he has been dead
some time."
I was quite upset on getting up, and felt too unwell to eat
any breakfast. All day at business I have been thinking about
this dream.
On coming home, you can imagine my feelings when I beheld
the placards ! I bought all the papers I could get and rushed
home with the news. In the whole of my life I have never
had, nor ever heard of anyone else having, such a realistic pre-
monition of what actually took place at the time it was dreamed ;
and told to witnesses before any knowledge of the disaster was
known. I write, as my strange experience may be of interest
to the general public. Can anyone explain this ?
Mr. Walker also enclosed the following statements from
persons to whom he related his dream before he knew of its
verification :
18 Shepherd's Hill, Stoughton,
Ne. Guildfoed, July 2nd, 1928.
I, the undersigned, hereby certify that my son Dudley F.
Walker, of 18 Shepherds Hill, Stoughton, Nr. Guildford, Surrey,
related to me early on the morning of Thursday, 28th June, 1928,
a full and vividly detailed account of a dream he had that
night experienced, in which he witnessed a railway accident which
accurately resembled the subsequent description of the Darlington
train smash which occurred about the same time as his dream.
He told me this long before it was known there had been an
accident, and it was not until he returned that night with the
evening papers that I knew an accident had taken place. The
account in the papers closely followed all the main details of
his dream as related to me. Maey Walkee.
July ith, 1928.
I, the undersigned, hereby certify that on the morning of
Thursday, 28th June, 1928, my Mother related to me details
of a dream which my brother Dudley F. Walker had experienced,
about a serious railway accident previous to any knowledge by
either of us about the train smash which had that same night
taken place at DarUngton. Elsie Mary Walkee.
384 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December, 1928
I, the undersigned, hereby certify that Mr. Dudley F. Walker
did relate to me a full and detailed account of the dream which
he had exj^erienced prior to any announcement appearing in the
press. From his description the dream appeared to closely
resemble the actual train smash at Darlington, and as a respon-
sible person in the company employing Mr. Walker, I can give
every assurance that he has made no attempt whatever to prevari-
cate in the matter.
li. A. Etherington,
Managing Director,
Walker Bros. (Guildford) Ltd.
Subsequently Mr. Fryer wrote again to Mr. Walker, as
follows :
July lOth, 1928.
The Secretary of the Psychical Research Society would like
to know how you came to be aware of the exact time when
you had the dream of the accident. Sometimes people who have
such a dream wake almost immediately and make a note of the
time. Others become aware of the dream when they wake at
the usual time of rising and then they make some memorandum
of the experience. From your report the latter seems to have
been what happened and if such a memorandum was made we
should like to have a copy of it. We should therefore be obliged
if you will tell us (1) how you were able to fix the time you
had the dream ; (2) at what time you woke on this occasion,
whether it was the usual time or earher or later ; (3) whether
accidents by rail or car had formed the subject of conversation
with your friends before you retired to rest, or had you read
any story (magazine or novel) in which accidents in the course
of travelling were described. The last question is important
because our dreams are often mental, unconscious, constructions
or re-arrangements of materials supplied by events or topics of
conversation of the day before the dream. Sleeping or waking,
our minds are constantly at work. Our questions are based
upon what we have learnt of mental processes in the course of
our inquiries. I shall be very grateful for a reply.
Yours faithfully,
A. T. Fryer.
December, 1928 Case 385
To this letter Mr. Walker replied as follows :
July 21st, 1928.
Regarding time of dream. This I am afraid I was only able
to estimate in the following manner. The dream was divided
into two distinct sections, that is, the collision itself which I
appeared to commence dreaming about soon after I fell to sleep,
at about 10.0 to 10.30. I only partly awoke after this, and
did not remember much except that I felt very frightened and
that it was still dark. There was then a gap of time and it was
apparently much later that I dreamt about again being in the
signal box after having attended some sort of official inquiry
in which I saw a number of men seated down each side of a
long table. I appeared to have returned to my post in the
signal box and remembering the smash I was in great trepidation
in letting further trains through. I was still worrying over this
when I awoke at about 7.30.
I immediately came down and told my mother all I have
told you, only in greater detail, who later told my sister whilst
I was dressing.
I made no written account as of course I saw no sense in so
doing at the time, as this is the first dream of its kind I had
ever had. On getting to business I made a short entry in my
pocket diary which is as follows. " Thursday June 28th. 1928.
Dreamed of train smash." Later, on reading the evening paper
I entered underneath
—" Wrote to Mail and Surrey Advertiser re
dream."
Dudley F. Walker.
We print below some extracts from the daily papers, giving
an account of the disaster.
The Northern Echo, Thursday, June 28th, 1928.
A terrible railway accident occurred just before midnight last
night outside Darlington Bank Top Station.
A Newcastle-Scarborough excursion, returning to Newcastle,
collided at about 11.20 with an express goods train for London
from the north. The excursion train was full of trippers.
It was learnt at 3.0 this morning that at least eight people
were killed and about 30 injured. The eight bodies are those
of a man, six women, and one little girl. . . ,
386 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December, 1928
The trains crashed with great force. Two coaches of the
excursion train were telescoped and the engine of one of the
trains was completely derailed and lay broadside on to the track.
There were distressing scenes. . . . One gruesome sight was that
of a man's body lying on top of one of the carriages. ...
The Daily Mail, Monday, July 2nd, 1928.
Col. Sir John Pringle opened at Darlington on Saturday the
Ministry of Transport inquiry into the collision, which was between
a parcels train and an excursion train from Scarborough. . . .
Thomas Walls, in charge of the Darlington South signal box,
said that when he accepted the parcels train the excursion from
Scarborough was offered to him. . . .
James Garrett, assistant signalman in the South Junction box,
estimated the speed of the excursion train at between 30 and
40 miles an hour.
" Before the collision occurred," Garrett added, " my attention
was drawn to a clicking sort of noise in the lever frame. I
realised there must be something wrong, so I threw the down
main signal to danger."
With regard to the time at which Mr. Walker's dream
occurred, it will be seen from his letter to Mr. Fryer on
July 21st, 1928, that the dream was divided into two parts,
of which the first part seems to have occvured about the
time of the accident ; the second part of the dream was later
in the night, certainly after the accident. On 26th November,
1928, the Hon. Editor wrote a letter to Mr. Walker enclosing
proof of this report of his experience ; the report as first
drafted included a statement, based on a misinterpretation of
Mr. Walker's letter to Mr. Fryer of 21st July, 1928, to the
effect that " not much recollection remained in Mr. Walker's
waking consciousness " concerning the first part of his dream.
In her letter Mrs. Salter also asked whether Mr. Walker could
give some further information as to whether he had ever to
his knowledge dreamed of a railway accident before, and
especially whether he was subject to anything in the way of
recurrent nightmares, as this would obviously diminish the
force of the coincidence. To this letter Mr. Walker replied
as follow^s :
December, 1928 Case 387
Nov. 28th, '28.
I am afraid in my letter of the 21st I did not quite clearly
express myself, as I really meant that during the partial awaking
during the night I did not wake up then sufficiently to analyse
the details of what I had dreamt {i.e. the actual smash itself),
but went to sleep again at once and only remembered the first
part of the dream properly when I fully awoke at 7.30, and came
downstairs.
In other words—I partly awoke during the night (after having
dreamed of the smash) with a feeling of fear over what I had
just witnessed, but not being sufficiently awake to think it over
or even to note the time, I fell asleep again to dream of the
signal box and letting further trains through in what was then
daylight in my dream.
This is a little difficult to explain, and I trust I have made
myself clear, but it would not be correct to say :
—" not much
recollection remained in Mr. Walker's waking consciousness," as
this should only apply to the partial waking consciousness during
the night.
Upon full waking consciousness, the whole thing was as clear
as life, and it was of course only then that I distinctly remem-
bered about the gap between the two dreams.
Replying now to your P.S. asking if I frequently had dreams
of this kind :
I can most emphatically assure you that I have never before
dreamed of either a railway smash or any other kind of violent
accident, and as a matter of fact have all my life been a very
rare dreamer. This has been a subject of remark in my family,
for I have often passed for months without ever dreaming at all
—or at any rate never having any remembrance of dreaming after
waking. ...
Dudley F. Walker.
With this letter Mr. Walker enclosed a page torn from his
diary, upon which the original record of his dream was made
(see above), in the words "Dreamed of train smash." The
diary page has the date "Thursday, June 28, 1928," printed
at the top.
388 Journal of Society for Psychical Researck Deceubek, 1928
REPORT OF A PSEUDO-SITTING FOR PHYSICAL
PHENOMENA WITH KARL KRAUS.i
By Theodore Besterman.
Karl Kraus is a young Austrian who for some years claimed
to have mediuniistic powers. He was studied by Baron von
Schrenck-Notzing, who was, and remains, satisfied that Kraus
produced genuinely supernormal phenomena, and who read a
paper on the subject of his experiments at the Paris Congress
of 1927. After the reading of this paper, Kraus, having been
detected in trickery by a committee of investigation in Vienna,
declared that all the phenomena produced by him were fraudulent.
In June 1928, Kraus, being then in London with his em-
ployer (he is a chauffeur), called on me at the Rooms of the
Society. The object of his visit was to interest me or the
Society in the purchase of the MS. of a book he had written
about his mediumistic imposture, and of a controlhng and
recording apparatus he had invented for use at mediumistic
sittings. I may observe in this connection that Kraus was
treated throughout with the utmost courtesy and consideration,
although his record as a self-confessed fraud might have
excused a somewhat harsher attitude. Kraus, however, did
not consider the treatment that he received any reason for
acting honestly. Indeed, as I discovered later, at least half
of what he said was either inaccurate or downright untrue.
The story of his negotiations in regard to his MS. has not yet
been completely unravelled. In short, Kraus's whole attitude
and behaviour show him to be very deficient in moral sense,
to such an extent, indeed, as to make it doubtful whether he
can reasonably be held responsible for his actions.
Kraus, in his MS. and to me verbally, made many serious
allegations against the conditions prevailing during his sittings
at Baron von Schrenck-Notzing's. I therefore determined to
1 This report was originally drafted as part of a paper on Kraus. While recentlj'
in Munich I was informed by Baron von Schrenck-Notzing that he was preparing
an exhaustive book on this subject. I therefore dropped my paper, and expanded
the draft into a report for use by Baron von Schrenck-Notzing. This was trans-
lated into German by Fraulein Dr. Gerda Walther, and from this German transla-
tion I have now put together the present report.
December, 1928 Pseudo-Sitting for Physical Phenomena 389
take advantage of Kraus's presence in London to test these
assertions, about which. I had previously heard from more
than one source. I invited him, with the approval of Dr.
WooUey, to give a pseudo-sitting in the Society's Seance Room
imder the same conditions and control as those prevailing at
his sittings in Munich. Kraus consented to this, undertaking
to produce the same phenomena, and received a substantial
fee for his services.
In order to give the pseudo-sitting a greater interest and
importance than would have attached to a mere demonstration
of trickery, it was determined that some of the sitters should be
left mider the impression that they were to witness a genuine sitting.
I attached considerable importance to the impressions they would
receive imder these conditions ; the sitters so deceived afterwards
readily recognised the value of the experiment. There were there-
fore present at the sitting the pseudo-medium, Dr. WooUey and
myself as controllers, five sitters, of whom three were unaware of the
real nature of the performance, and the note-taker (Mrs. Bracken-
bury).
Prior to the sitting Kraus asked to be furnished with a common
paper-clip, which he placed in his waistcoat-pocket. He also
complained because he could not find a table of suitable
weight and construction, suitable, that is, for lifting with his
head and shoulders. He was not, of course, searched, nor
specially dressed, merely removing his jacket. The soles of
his shoes were painted with a luminous preparation, and he
put on the usual luminous bands, except those on the ankles,
which he refused. The light during the sitting varied, but
the pseudo-phenomena were invariably preceded by a request
for darkness. Under these conditions the following pseudo-
phenomena took place. They can be conveniently divided
into two classes, those occurring with Kraus in the cage and
those occurring while he was not in the cage.
I. Phenomena ocmrring with the pseudo-mediu?n in the cage.
This cage is of net on a light wooden frame, and was con-
structed to contain a small table on which objects were placed
in sittings for telekinesis. It may be as well to mention, in
view of various rumours that have been circulated, that this
is the only cage in the Society's Rooms. Kraus wished to
390 Journal of Society for Psychical Research DscEwmB, 1928
take his seat in this cage, just large enough for this purpose,
and was allowed to do so. The cage has an opening on one
side, the relevant measurements of which are : 72.4 cm. wide,
- 82.2 cm. high, 31.7 cm. from the floor to the bottom of the
opening. Through this space Kraus extended his forearms,
his hands being held by Dr. WooUey and myself respectively.
About 70-80 cms. in front of the cage stood a light table on
which were placed the usual luminous objects, bands, pieces of
cardboard, a trumpet, etc. Almost immediately the lights
were reduced to their minimum Kraus, who does not go into
trance, announced that he would produce movements of the
table. In this he was at once successful, the table being
violently overturned. After a brief interval Kraus asked for
light, and, as soon as the table had been set up again, for
renewed darkness, when he proceeded to produce movements
of the individual objects on the table. This type of pheno-
menon occurred at intervals throughout the sitting. All these
movements were thus produced : Kraus agitated his hands
until he had got himself into a position in which he was able
to project one foot through the opening in the cage. On
putting on his shoes after their soles had been painted, he
had been noticed to tie them very loosely so as to enable him
to remove one or both without getting his hands out of
control.
Towards the end of the sitting Kraus announced that he
would produce a different kind of phenomenon, and asked me
to name a small object in the immediate neighbourhood. After
thinking of a cigarette-case, but failing to remember the
German for this, I said " Bleistift " [pencil]. Almost immediately,
certainly within a second, something was heard to fall at the
other end of the room, the lights were turned up, and a pencil
from the note-taker's table (which was quite out of the pseudo-
medium's reach) was found several yards from Kraus's place in
the cage. This phenomenon was thus produced : Kraus,
before the formal beginning of the sitting, had taken the
pencil from the note-taker's table, placed it in his upper waist-
coat pocket, and, at the psychological moment, he extracted
and threw it with his mouth.
II. Phenomena occurring ivith the pseudo-medium out of the
.
\
December, 1928 Pseiido-Sitting for Physical Phenomena 391
cage. These phenomena were all self-levitations. Kraus asked
to be released from control and to be provided with a large
cloth. With this he covered himself entirely in order to
" concentrate force." After a minute or so, in the dark, the
cloth was thrown away, the control was renewed, and at once
the sitters facing Kraus saw the luminous feet of a pair of
shoes which appeared to be floating in the air. This pheno-
menon, with variations into which I need not enter, was
repeated several times. It was thus produced : when covered
with the cloth Kraus removed one shoe, clipped it with the
. previously supplied paper-clip to the other shoe, lifted the
foot which now bore two shoes, and waved it about.
The accidental turning on of a light brought the sitting to
I a premature end by revealing the fraud. Only one of the
three innocent sitters felt able after this to give an honest
account of her impressions, and this one confessed that she
took the phenomena for genuine, relying on the control and
^ on the search that she supposed had previously been made of
Ej-aus's person.
The following observations are to be made on this pseudo-
sitting. The first is, that if Kraus is, and was, unable to
produce the above described phenomena otherwise than with
the conditions he laid down, it is impossible to imagine that
he could have deceived us if he had come before us as a
genuine medium. The same undoubtedly apphes to most
serious investigators, and I am not in the least inclined to
believe Kraus's repeated assertions that the conditions pre-
vailing at our pseudo-sitting were those he worked under with
Baron von Schrenck-Notzing. For the latter has since shown
me the signed records, with diagrams, of several sittings in
which certain phenomena were produced, and in which more
stringent conditions prevailed. Without expressing any opinion
as to the genuineness of these phenomena, the question of the
comparative reliability of contemporary records and of Kraus's
memory, even assuming him to be capable and willing to tell
the truth, can hardly arise.
In a scientifically conducted series of sittings Kraus would
not always have been allowed (at first, perhaps, by way of
encouragement) to refuse luminous bands round his ankles, to
392 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December, 1928
be released from control in darkness and to cover himself with
a cloth, and to secrete a paper-clip and a pencil on his person.
Nor would he have been allowed the use of a cage which, not
having been constructed for such a purpose, permitted the
described use of his leg. And it would soon have been
noticed that a given phenomenon only occurred when the
appropriately favourable conditions were present.
The most noteworthy features of the sitting to the controllers,
were (1) the dexterity with which Kraus contorted his foot
out of the cage, and (2) the way in which, in the levitation-
phenomena, he hopped about on one foot, and then on to a
chair, without putting any abnormal and suspicious strain on
the controlling hands. It is also an interesting illustration of
the possibilities of chance-coincidence that, Kraus having
prepared himself with a pencil, I should have happened to
name the same object. No doubt, if something else had been
named, the test would have been put off again and again until
successful. And, if the pencil had not been recognised as
coming from the note-taker's table, how promptly it would
have been claimed as an apport
!
EEVIEWS.
I. MetJiode und Ergebnisse des Berliner Rundfunkversuchs. By Dr.
Alexander Herzberg. Offprint from the Zeitschrift fur
angewandte PsycJioIogie, vol. 31. 1 (1928), pp. 66-106.
It is highly gratifying to find that the broadcasting experiment
in telepathy of last year has already been imitated in Germany
and that with a great parade of thoroughness and of psycho-
logical technicalities. Dr. Herzberg takes 40 pages to describe
an experiment of which the prototype only required nine, because
he thinks it necessary to have an introduction, a chapter on
method, one on Dr. Woolley's experiment, another of criticisms
on it, and four others before he comes to his results, which are
elaborately illustrated with tables and graphs. Unfortunately
he is so taken up with the mechanism of scientific investigation
that he fails to satisfy his readers' curiosity about the actual
results : his tables all deal with percentages, a procedure for
December, 1928 Reviews 393
which one can suggest no reason except that the actual figures
may have been somewhat small. For the total number of
participators was only 4563 (of whom 164 were ruled out) and
half of these were sacrificed to a " control " experiment in which
the agents, Dr. Herzberg and Count von Arco, made no attempts
at transmission. Nevertheless it would seem that there were
actually 116 participators who got 2 answers right out of 6, and 11
who got 3 right ; in the " control " experiment (supposed to be
purely fortuitous) 4 correct answers were recorded in 2 cases.
Dr. Herzberg finally declares that his inquiry was totally incon-
clusive, neither proving anything for telepathy nor cogently dis-
proving it.
The meticulous and rather acrid criticism to which he subjects
Dr. Woolley's procedure prompts to the comment that he is
not perhaps altogether free from blame for this failure. For as
he admits (p. 89) he assumed that any one could function as
agent, and if this assumption is false and telepathy demands
co-operation and a certain rapport between agent and percipient,
nothing positive could result from his experiment.
But the most serious flaw in his method arises from his ob-
session with the idea of exactness. This leads him to reject
any experiment which cannot be made " exact " and any method
which cannot yield a final solution the first time it is tried, and
means that he adheres to the superstition that a single experiment
can be conclusive. He thereby misses the most valuable logical
lessons of these broadcasting experiments. For they show that
such demands are fantastic and that the logic underlying them
is false. They show that «o experiments can be exact into which
a psychological factor enters and in which psychological preferences
can defeat mathematical probabilities. And since in actual experi-
menting there is a psychological factor, they show that mathe-
matical exactness is an impossible ideal. The utmost that could
be inferred from Dr. Woolley's experiments would be a certain
probability that telepathy occurred, and this hypothesis would
have to be confirmed by further experiments. Thus if a few,
say one in 10,000, of the answers were almost completely right,
it would be worth while to test their authors further, to see
whether their success would continue. If it did, it would become
more and more j^robable that telepathy existed, and its rejection
would gradually become unreasonable. But there is no absolute
394 Journal of Society for Psychical Besearch December, 1'J2S
proof in experimental science, and even in mathematics exactness
remains hypothetical. The moment we ajjply our mathematics
exactness vanishes, and it becomes a problem how far the real
will conform to our calculations.
F. C. S. Schiller.
II. The Scripts of Cleophas, written by the hand of Geraldine
Cummins. Rider and Co. Pp. xx, 292. Price 12s. 6d.
Are the Scripts of Cleophas to be regarded as fiction or as
history ? Does this book in any substantial respect differ from
The Sorry Tale, for example, admittedly a romance dealing with
the same scenes and much the same period as that in which
Cleophas is supposed to have lived ? The last-named story, which
purports to have been given to the world by " Patience Worth "
through the mediumship of Mrs. Curran (now Mrs. H. Rogers),
is certainly superior to the Cleophas script from a literary point
of view, though Miss Cummins has achieved some success as
novelist and playwright, while Mrs. Rogers is a relatively un-
educated woman with no pretence to culture and seemingly
devoid of aspirations to authorship of any sort.
One is sorry to seem to disparage an effort which has been
made in obvious good faith and which must have entailed upon
the transcriber a great expenditure of labour and time, however
remarkable the rapidity with which the text was transmitted.
But I find it difficult to persuade myself that there is anything
here which affords a guarantee of new light upon the historical
problems of the past. It seems regrettable that in their " critical
introduction," the anonymous " editors " have not thought it
worth while to enter more fully into the reasons for the favourable
judgment they have expressed. We are informed that " The
verifiable facts of geography, history, terminology and such
like, strewn up and down the following pages, have been to a
considerable extent examined by experts and pronounced accurate
and sound, and some examples will be given later in this Intro-
duction." Not more than two examples, however, are supplied,
and one of these two amounts only to this that whereas in the
Authorised Version of the New Testament the word politarchai
nowhere occurs, this designation does apj^ear in the script to
transliterate the same term which is used in the Greek text of
December, 1 928 Reviews 395
Acts xvii. 6. Surely it is not inconceivable that although Miss
Cummins's interests have not been centred in Few Testament
study, she might subconsciously have picked up the information
that politarchai was the Greek name for the rulers in question.
The other example is a little more to the point. Referring to
p. 161 of the text, the editors note that the word archon is
employed to designate the head of the Jewish community in the
Syrian Antioch, and they point out that this was the correct
term, since Augustus in a.d. 11 had substituted it for the previous
title Ethnarch. Assuming the correctness of this statement, the
coincidence does not after all appear so very striking. Ardion
was the commonest designation for the rulers of a Jewish com-
munity throughout the Diaspora, and the editors seem to be
building upon a very slender basis when they go on to say :
'
The use of the comparatively new title Archon is an example
of that exact knowledge on the part of the writers which is to be
found in many other striking details, only noticeable perhaps to
those who are themselves authorities." It seems a pity that room
could not be found to illustrate these striking details a little
more convincingly—the more so that in the publisher's advertise-
ment on the dust-cover of the volume we read :
" The internal
evidence of the genuineness of what purports to be the recon-
struction of an old document destroyed during the time of the
early Christian persecutions is sufficiently strong to bear the strain
of the keenest historical criticism."
What renders me particularly sceptical regarding such pro-
nouncements is the fact that I once spent much time in making
acquaintance with the revelations of Anne Catherine Emmerich.
The editors, who refer to this visionary in their Introduction,
say that her account of the Passion is " generally received by
Roman Catholics as divinely inspired." Further, they declare
that " eminent Catholic theologians and divines have examined
the work (of Anne Catherine) both as a record of fact and as
claiming to be a revelation, and the verdict is that the details,
where they can be tested, are unquestionably correct and the
inspiration indubitably genuine." Now, while it is quite true
that some few enthusiasts have claimed for Sister Emmerich an
extraordinary understanding of the scenes and events of the
New Testament and have believed that such knowledge could
only have been imparted supernaturally, no Catholic now-a-days
39G Journal of Society for Psychical Research Decemrkr, ih28
would dream of saying that the book was " divinely inspired."
Moreover, the " editors " are clearly unaware that what Brentano
published in Das bittere Leiden does not cover one-twentieth
part of the matter which during the best part of four years he
was occupied in taking down from the visionary's lips. Most of
the German text of his notes has since been printed and we learn
from them many strange things
—
e.g. that Jesus Christ during
His public life sailed on a missionary tour to Cyprus, and that
He undertook a three months' journey eastward, as far as the
Tigris, returning by way of Egypt. The remarkable thing is
that Anne Catherine, though an uneducated woman, seems to
have possessed, at least intermittently, extraordinary intuitions
regarding the geographical details, personal and place names,
prevalent activities and popular customs of the scenes she de-
scribes ; but it would be impossible to maintain seriously that she
had contributed anything reliable to the history of our Lord's
life. We are still, I fear, absolutely in the dark as to the sources
of the information which comes to the surface in automatic
writing, trance utterances and similar communications. There is
in most of these cases a strange mixture of truth and fiction,
the fiction predominating, and we can trust nothing as veridical
until we understand more of the processes of subliminal telepathy.
In point of interest and verifiable detail Miss Cummins' disclosures
strike me as tame in comparison with those of Sister Emmerich.
The greater part of the Scripts of Cleophas amounts to no more
than a rather laboured expansion, such as any story writer might
invent, of the earlier chapters of the Acts of the Apostles.
Neither has early Christian literature ^Jreserved the faintest allusion
to any such document as that from which " the Messenger
"
purports to have derived his facts. Herbert Thurston, S.J.
III. Die Hellseherin, Betrachtungen eines ihrer " geistigen Fi/hrer
"
zum Insterburger Hellseherprozess. Von Pelz, Kriminalkom-
missar a. D., etc. 1928.
In this pamphlet Herr Pelz, formerly Kriminalkommissar in
the Memel region (now in Lithuania), devotes 133 pages to an
exposure of Frau Giinther-Geffers, the Konigsberg clairvoyante.
His conclusions are entirely unfavourable not only to her supposed
supernormal faculties but even to the genuineness of her trance.
Deoember, 1928 Revieivs 397
These he bases on his personal experiences as well as on some
of the e\'idence produced at the Insterburg trial (see July Journal)
and on a detailed analysis of Frau G.-G.'s performances in
general.
That his scepticism is in some respects justified I quite agree.
And I would attach in this respect especial importance to two
protocols dealing with two different cases and reproducing the
clairvoyante's statements verbatim (op. cit. pp. 35 and 59) ; also
to some—not all—general remarks.
On the other hand, Herr Pelz's analysis of the Kaschnitzki
(Kaschnicki) case (see Notes on Periodicals in the October and
November Journal) appears to me inadequate. Apart from this,
some of Frau G.-6.'s statements made in connection with this
episode seem not even to have been controlled. Without such
an attempt at verification the analysis is obviously and necessarily
incomplete. I have also noticed some strainings in Herr Pelz's
negative line of argument.
Again : surely sceptics wishing—^perhaps quite rightly—to
weaken the evidence for an allegedly supernormal fact, as in this
instance, ought not to contradict each other. This wise rule is
not always observed in the present case. Thus, when discussing
one of the two experiments made in the course of the Insterburg
trial in May last to test Frau G.-G.'s powers, Dr. Albert Hellwig
had asserted in the FranJcfurter Zeitung (see July Journal, p. 306)
that it seemed by no means proved that the dairvoyante did—
as had been alleged in some newspapers—give the name " von
Eeibnitz " (the victim of a theft not cleared up at the time).
But in his account of the same experiment Herr Pelz says that
Frau G.-G. wrote a name which was deciphered by those present
as von Eeibnitz (p. 97). The fact that, as pointed out by
the writer, Frau G.-G. may well have known this surname has
nothing to do with this discrepancy.
This circumstance notwithstanding, and the fact that Herr
Pelz's arguments are not invariably unassailable (also his too
abundant use of big type where it suits him : a httle item not
calculated to enhance the impression produced by his little book
on the critical reader), I willingly agree that to a certain extent
Die Hellseherin deals another blow to the Konigsberg lady's prestige.
Still, in spite of all the suspicious circumstances carefully picked
up by the ex-Kriminalkommissar, the whole matter may stiU be
398 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December, 1928
considered, I think, as being sub judice. Not that I have much
hope as to a iinal positive verdict.
P.S.—In the fwces-verhal of the sitting of the Insterburg tribunal,
printed in Zeit. f. Psych. Forschung, October 1928, p. 309, we read
that Frau G.-G. wrote :
" von Re—b ," the rest being illegible.
P.-P.-S.
IV. Life Beyond Death with Evidence. By The Rev. Charles
Drayton Thomas. W. Collins Sons & Co., Ltd., 1928. Pp. 296.
The author, who has had the advantage of a series of sittings
with Mrs. Osborne Leonard, extending over a number of years,
has selected extracts from his records and narratives of his
experiences, adding his comments and conclusions. He deals
with three main topics—(1) the identity of the communicators
who claim to be his deceased father and sister, (2) the conditions
of the after-life, (3) the modus operandi of trance communications
through Mrs. Osborne Leonard. He gives his reasons for accepting
as true the messages received on all three heads. He does not
assign a separate Part of the volume to each head, but, as the
Contents shows, intermixes the chapters so as to make " the
evidence and the description alternate " (Preface, p. 6). He has
followed this plan to consult the taste of the general reader,
and from this point of view may be successful. One can open
the book at random and find something of interest to read without
having to go through the previous chapters to understand it.
The student would probably prefer three separate Parts with a
final Summary showing how the three lines lead up to one ter-
minus. There is no index, and the want of one is felt.
The material has been well selected. The communications are
distinctly above the average of mediumistic utterances. They
are free from dogmatism and crude extravagances. The author's
comments and arguments are cautious and restrained. Though
he expresses decided opinions he discusses alternative explanations
impartially. He does not make unreasonable claims for the
authority of the teaching (see pp. 258, 259 for his remarks on
the source of spirit). His attitude towards mediumistic statements
in general is set forth on p. 260 as follows :
" I do not accept statements as true merely because they
come to me through psychic channels. They may have been
December, 1928 Reviews 399
blurred during transmission, or mingled with fancies in the
medium's mind. "When satisiied that they represent ^vhat
the communicator wishes to say, one should further consider
whether it is an opinion that is being expressed, or a personal
experience."
He makes out a strong case in favour of the identity of his
communicators with his father and sister. The descriptions of
the spheres and of the modus operandi in trance communications
are hardly so convincing. One sometimes doubts whether they
ought to be understood literally or symbolically, and there are
some passages which one suspects may have been distorted in
transmission by some question or thought of the sitter or even
by the mind of the medium. Whatever views the reader may
take concerning the origin of the phenomena he will certainly
find interesting narratives of evidence and discussions affording
food for reflection.
A. W. Trethewy.
SHORT NOTICES.
Hans Driesch, Der Mensch und die Welt. 8vo, pp. x. 135.
Leipzig, 1928. Price 5 M. unboimd, 7 M. bound.
Professor Driesch's latest book contains little bearing directly
on psychical research. But in dealing with the various problems
of man in his relation to the world, the author inevitably has a
good deal to say that is of help to the philosophical student of
the supernormal. In his section on the significance of the concept
of death and the " other side
"'
Professor Driesch expresses sym-
pathy with spiritualism, though he does not consider it to have
yet reached the status of a science. It is a little regrettable,
perhaps, that the author's authorities, so far as this particular
subject is concerned, are not always very happily chosen. The
book is written with all the lucidity deservedly associated with
Professor Driesch.
Helex C. Lajibert, A General Survey of Psychical Phenotnena.
Foreword by Stanley de Brath. Svo, pp. xxiii. 165, 15
facsimiles and ill. New York, 1928. Price .'$2.50.
The author's contributions to the publications of the Boston
and American Societies show her to be a careful observer. The
400 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December, 1928
present book, which is largely a popular digest of those papers,
is therefore a good deal above the average of such compilations.
Unfortunately, however, the author's credulity somewhat outruns
her care in observation, and there are many pages in this book,
such as those on so-called human radiation, which might well
have been omitted. There is no index.
[W. F. Prince], Noted Witnesses for Psychic Occurrences. 8vo,
pp. 336. Boston, 1928.
This is the latest publication of the Boston Society for Psychic
Research. It consists of a collection of passages in the lives of
eminent people which seem to testify to the reality of supernormal
occurrences.
Where are the Dead ? Svo, pp. ix. 136. xi. London : Cassell and
Co., Ltd., 1928. Price 3s. 6d. net.
The contributors to this symposium are Sir Arthur Keith, Sir
Oliver Lodge, Arnold Bennett, Bishop Knox, G. K. Chesterton,
Prof. Julian Huxley, Dr. Henry Townsend, the Rev. H. R. L.
Sheppard, Hilaire Belloc, Hugh Walpole, the Rev. R. J. Campbell,
Prof. H. J. Spooner, the Rev. J. P. Arendzen, Sir A. Conan
Doyle, George A. Birmingham, J. A. Spender, the Rev. T.
Rhondda Williams, Lady Southwark, Robert Blatchford, T. R.
Glover, Robert Lynd, and the Rev. E. S. Waterhouse. In short,
this is a very mixed bag of newspaper articles, of transitory
interest.
Th. B.
Das Phlinomen von Konnersreuth im Lichte Evangelischen Glauhens.
By Matthias Simon, Arzberg (Oberfr.). Leipzig.
This pamphlet of 47 pages will well deserve perusal. It begins
with a narrative of Therese Neumann's experiences and of the
Konnersreuth occurrences, after which the writer—a clergyman
—
discusses the religious side of the problem from the standpoint
of orthodox Lutheranism.
The authenticity of most of the phenomena is admitted,
"hysteria" being abundantly quoted as an explanation; still
doubt is thrown on the alleged fact of T. N. having spoken
Aramaic and of the fasting. The wish is expressed (a very
reasonable suggestion) that an enquiry worthy of the name be
again undertaken as to the latter phenomenon. The possibility
December, 1928 Short Notices 401
of the seeress occasionally obtaining the knowledge displayed by
telepathy is admitted.
In the part devoted to the religious aspect of the Konnersreuth
enigma the writer makes no disguise of his negative attitude.
" For God's word in the proper sense, the Bible, there is no
place in Therese's piety."
P.-P.-S.
NOTES ON PEEIODICALS.
Revue Metapsyckique, July-August 1928. This number contains
exclusively the lectures delivered at the International Metapsychical
Institute in 1928. Two of these have nothing (or at best very
little) in common—whatever their merits—with our researches
:
M. A. Sainte-Lagiie's " The scientifically unknowable " ("" L'in-
connaissable scientifique ") and Dr. Jean Vinchon's " On some
modalities of unconscious art " (" Sur quelques modalites de Tart
inconscient ").
M. Grimoin-Sanson's lecture supported by experimental demon-
stration on conjuring and " false prodigies " is briefly summed
up, one of the two conclusions drawn being that the medium
must be most rigorously controlled, otherwise the phenomena
are to be regarded as null and void ; a conclusion which can
hardly claim the merit of novelty.
Mr. Harry Price delivered before the Institute a lecture on
" Some Favourite Tricks of Famous Mediums," beginning with
the sixteenth century and ending with contemporary celebrities.
Professor Charles Richet spoke on " Prevision of the Future
now and a Thousand Years ago " and " The Sixth Sense "
;
and Maitre Maurice Gargon has an excellent lecture on " Healers
and Their Practices." As for the raison d'etre and mechanism
of the cures, he is, I think, somewhat vague, but has no doubt
—which is the most important thing—that the cures are real.
Interesting incidents are cited, and the conclusion—with reference
to the intolerance, alas, often displayed by the representatives
of official medicine towards the healers—deserves every sympathy
:
" When the diagnostic has been made, well made, and there is
no room for doubt, I should like the physician, when necessary,
to leave the healing to the man who obtains it better than
himself [the physician]. In the presence of pain and death
402 Journal of Society fur Psychical Researclt Decejiber, 1928
the association of all is necessary and a wide spirit of humanity
will be shown if it be understood that the quarrels of schools
must have little weight before the suf!erings of others."
M. Rene WarcoUier's lecture on " L'accord telepathique " is
already known to readers of the Journal (see October number,
pp. 319-323).
" Some Paranormal Perceptions (their conditions and their
aspects) " is the title of a lecture by M. Le Loup de Sainville
on various experiments chiefly telepathic, mainly connected with
the Warcollier trials. There are some points on which I would
like to have a little more light, viz. (1) What is the proportion
of the trials described (apparently because considered particularly
successful) to all the experiments ? (2) What is the precise
degree of exactness of the drawings representing the objects
perceived by the percipients ? Are these strictly accurate repro-
ductions of the original drawings or what ? These two elements
are of first-rate importance if we are to appreciate such trials
as M. Le Loup de Sainville's at their true value. P.-P.-S.
Psychic Research, August 1928.
This Number opens with a report by the Editor on " Two
Striking Cases of Collective Apparition." The first is the case
of a certain Mr. William Smith (pseudonym) who had been for
many years Senior Warden of his church, and as such had been
accustomed to collect the offertory. On a certain Easter Monday
Mr. Smith committed suicide, and on the following Sunday he
was seen by the officiating clergyman and two members of the
congregation standing on the chancel steps when the offertory
was being presented by the two acting Wardens. In the second
case Mr. D. L. Dadirrian, who is almost completely blind, was
sitting one evening on the porch of his house when he heard
footsteps approaching and then gradually dying away along a
gravel path which stretched all along the front of the house ; he
supposed at the time that the footsteps were normally produced.
His cousin, who was with him on the porch, heard no footsteps,
but saw an apparition of Mr. Dadirrian's wife (lately dead) passing
along the path in the same direction as the footsteps. The
special interest of the case lies, as the Editor points out, in the
fact that " the apparition, which was seen by the seeing observer,
was heard by the observer who relies upon the auditory sense for
his contact with the world."
December, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 403
Monsieur Rene Sudre has an article on " The Phenomena of
Levitation," in which he reviews Monsieur Olivier Leroy's recently
published book on this subject. The book is reviewed in Proc.
Pt. 109, pp. 272-9.
There is an article by Miss A. M. Bobbins on " Trance Medium-
ship. Some Observations from a Spiritistic and Non-Professional
Standpoint," and further instalments of "A Case of Apparent
Obsession " (Dr. Burns), and " Teleplasmic Thumbprints " (E. E.
Dudley and J. Malcolm Bird).
Psychic Research, September 1928. This Number opens with
a report by Mr. Harry Price on " Some Further Experiments
with Jeanne Laplace." ^ Mile. Laplace is a professional " psycho-
metrist " and Mr. Price's sitting took place at the Institut Mefa-
psychique, where she was undergoing some tests. Mr. Price
relates how he gave Mile. Laplace various documents from his
pocket, and she described the mental impressions induced by
handling them. Three experiments were tried, of which the first
was the most successful, and there would certainly appear to be
good prima facie evidence for knowledge supernormally acquired.
We may hope to hear something further concerning Mile. Laplace
from Dr. Osty.
Dr. Richardson brings to a conclusion his report on " Experi-
ments in Thought-transference with Margery and other Mediums,"
and Mr. Fothergill's lecture on " The Curse of Tut-ankh-amen,"
together with Mrs. Leaning's comments, are reprinted from the
July-August No. of the British Journal of Psychical Research.^
M. Sudre has an article on " The Telepathic Rapport of Ochoro-
wicz," in which he describes how under pressure of observed
phenomena, especially the phenomenon of hypnotic " action at a
distance," Ochorowicz gradually modified his conception of a
purely physical rapport between magnetiser and subject, although
to the end he never entirely gave up the idea that the observed
interaction had a physical basis, which he compares with an
electric current. M. Sudre's conclusion is that " the physical
explanation . . . will not cover the totality of the facts of
^An earlier report appeared in Psychic Research for 1927, vol. xxi, No. 4.
^See Jour. S.P.R. Nov., 1928, p. 375. For a much more striking example of
the fulfilment of a curse see "The Times," November 26, 1928, p. 17, "A Fakir's
Curse."
•
I
404 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Decembek, 1928
clairvoyance . . . their essence cannot be of a physical order.
This is the truth which I would force upon the attention of all
the neophytes in metapsychics who so naively believe that waves
. . . can give up the secret of telepathy." j[_ pj; q g_
Zeitschrift fur Psychische Forschung, September 1928. Dr.
Mattiesen begins to initiate his readers into the mysteries of the
English cross-correspondences (beginning with ten " simple " ones),
whose destiny, he says, resembles in one respect that of the
" classical " writers : they are renowned but almost unknown
;
their names are known, but they are not read. The article
is the first of a series.
Prof. Dr. Robert Nagel of Vienna has a paper on clairvoyance
and clairvoyants. The article deals chiefly, though not ex-
clusively, with the professional clairvoyante Dagma. Some incidents
are described, of which one (page 279), is striking : Dagma
is said to have described correctly what was happening at the
moment in Professor Nagel's home : Dr. Nagel had specially asked
his wife to notice what would take place that evening at 10
o'clock, but the description given by the medium was not at
all in accordance with what Dr. Nagel expected—and yet proved
correct. The explanation by chance coincidence would seem
too far-fetched, I think ; on the other hand, the words of the
clairvoyante are not reproduced verbatim, and it is possible that
the amount of coincidence was less impressive than reported. In
the beginning of the paper. Dr. Nagel gives characteristic details
as to the attitude of the Austrian police and the Sanitdtskom-
mission towards such performances (in public) as Dagma's ;
though
probably well meant, this attitude will strike all those who are
not enamoured of grandmotherly legislation as being of no very
transcendent intelligence.
At the end of the article an attempt at explanation of prevision
of the future by the late Carl du Prel is quoted, briefly amounting
to this. Supposing a race of men to exist endowed with the
sense of hearing only, a man possessing all the five senses, like
ourselves, could easily make " predictions " which to these hypo-
thetical " one-sense " beings would appear altogether inexplicable.
The analogy is evident, the inference obvious, the suggestion most
ingenious : it only remains to prove in an incontrovertible way
that such things as premonitions do exist
!
Decembek, 1028 Notes on Periodicals 405
Dr. Cliristopli Schroder describes a case of a supposedly prophetic
dream connected with a Frau M. The amount of coincidence is
curious ; some other alleged premonitory incidents quoted by Dr.
Schroder in his comments tend rather to weaken the impression
produced.
Zeitschrift filr Parapsychologie, October 1928. Dr. Marcinowski,
of Bad Heilbronn, has the beginning of a paper on " Intuitive
Character Diagnoses," being experiments with a Frau Anita
Klette. We shall revert to this paper when finished.
We much prefer the following article in which Dr. von Schrenck-
Notzing abundantly quotes from a pamphlet by a Dr. Lorenzo
Torremocha Tellez, professor of medicine at the University of
Valladolid. The pamphlet describes some experiments in the
clairvoyant perception of the contents of a metallic box and of
the time marked by a closed watch (whose hands have been
displaced at random for the purpose of the experiment), the
subject being a D. Joaquin Argamasilla, son of the Marquis de
Santa Cera. Two other savants besides Dr. Tellez were present
at the trials. These cannot be said to leave nothing to be
desired, but the results obtained are both precise and encouraging.
Here is undoubtedly a case for further enquiry.
Hilda Zwieselbauer, the Czecoslovak spuhnedium, is again the
subject of a paper by M. Wratnik. To this paper Dr. Siinner,
the editor of Zeitschrift fitr Parapsychologie, adds a short account
of two sittings with Hilda—and her sister—at Briinn. We are
told that she is now developing into a regular physical medium.
I much suspect we have here another disappointment in store.
The " spirit " behind the spuk phenomena bears—or bore—by
the way the somewhat ominous name of Pars I
Frau Sophie Wereide, of Oslo, describes three cases of apparitions
of a grey shadow preceding deaths, which shadows she saw, and Prof.
Th. Wereide mentions a similar case in connection with his mother.
Dr. Walter Arend, of Munich, narrates a case of apparent
presentiment by his wife in connection with a railway accident.
Prof. Szanto, of Bratislava-Pressburg, discusses telaesthesia and
telekinesis. Herr Hanig analyses a book on " Experimental Dae-
monology " by Joseph Diirr, published last year at Leipzig.
He thinks in this case demoniacal powers were really at work.
The " mediumistic " painting of Heinrich JSTiisslein,! of Nuremberg,
is discussed by Dr. Jos. Bohm.
' His works were exhibited in London recently.
—
Ed.
406 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December, 1928
Prof. D. Walter of Graz tries to vindicate Henry Slade's medium-
ships against Count Klinckowstroem, Lehmann and others, not
always successfully, I think. It is, e.g. quite true, notwithstanding
the writer's assertion to the contrary, that various experiments
succeeded in Zollner's presence which never succeeded with Slade
later on. I would refer Prof. Walter in this connection to my
note on the Slade-Aksakofi investigation in Zeitschrift fiir Kritiscken
Okkultismus, I Band, 4 Heft, p. 297 (1926). (See also S.P.E. Journal
for November 1928.)
In " Kleine Mitteilungen " we read of the exposure at Munich,
at Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing's, of the medium Oskar S. : another
link in a chain already endless.
Mention is made of another account of Konnersreuth by Father
Weber of Speier, in Der Christliche Pilger. In this account it
is again described how a Host placed by a priest on Therese
Neumann's tongue disappeared. Mgr. Molz of Speier is spoken
of as an eye-witness. I doubt if such a " phenomenon " can
much enhance T. N.'s reputation ! Would it not be possible, it
may be asked, to try and develop levitation instead, for which
there seems to be so striking evidence in the hagiographical
annals of the Roman Catholic Church ?
Prof. Dr. Herbertz quotes extracts from his great-grandfather's
diary dealing with some apparently supernormal incidents.
Bulletin du Conseil des Recherches Metapsychiques de Belgique,
October 1928. M. Rutot, the President of the Council, discusses
at length " Spiritism, Metapsychism, Energetism and Neo-
Vitalism." The Margery mediumship is the subject of another
article, reproducing Dr. Crandon's short notice on the subject,
which briefly sums up the main features of this " mediumship."
A sitting for " typtology " (planchette) is described, at which
the late Nungesser is supposed to have communicated, predicting
(on August 17th) the circumstances under which what remains
of the Oiseau blanc will be found " before the end of the year."
Let us therefore await calmly December 31st, merely noting
that meanwhile another prediction of " Nungesser's " (" A tragic
German attempt in September ") has already proved false.
Zeitschrift fiir Psychische Forschung, October 1928. Dr. Mattie-
sen prints a further instalment of his paper on Cross Correspon-
dences (" Sesame and Lilies " and " Door ").
Dkckmbek, 1928 Notes on Periodicals 407
Dr. Walther Kroner brings to a close his report on the Inster-
burg trial (May 1928). The " criminal-telepathic " experiment
which took place at this trial (quite possibly for the first time in
the history of modern law !) is narrated in great detail, the
original protocol being reproduced verbatim though " with some
abbreviations." So is Countess Marie Eulenburg's sworn evidence
as to the particulars of a theft (jewels stolen and subsequently
recovered), where Frau Giinther-Geffers seems to have attained,
as far as the description of the jewels goes, a rather striking
measure of success.
Carlos Mirabelli is the subject of a short paper by Dr. Chr.
Schroder. From it we learn that Professor and Frau Hans
Driesch were present at a seance of this Brazilian medium's
on the 3rd of August last. The phenomena observed fell far
short of those narrated in the pamphlet referred to by me in
the S.P.R. Journal for October and November 1927 ; still the
fact remains that Prof. Driesch has signed a statement not un-
favourable to the genuineness of some of them and mentioning
as particularly impressive a door being closed at a distance of
5 metres from Mirabelli. The light was good throughout.
Dr. Schroder prints the first of two articles on the " Institute
for Metapsychical Research " at Berlin-Lichterfelde Ost, which seems
to have existed since May 1925. This Institute has inherited the
material, apparatuses, etc., left by the late Herr Fritz Grunewald.
We wish it success in its activity, but must note with regret that
the language used by its founder and leader (Herr Schroder)
towards those whom he considers as his opponents is hardly
calculated to promote that " solidaire international cooperation
"
which he thinks indispensable. Of this language the present
article affords evidence once more. (For other specimens see in
particular the pamphlet Pseudo-Entlarvungen. Members of the
S.P.R. may be interested to hear that Herr Schroder accuses the
Society of being " out to smash " (sabotieren) Physical Phenomena,
boycotting them and permitting its sceptical members to " slander
"
physical mediums (p. 295).
Kriminalistische Monatshefte, August 1928.
This review is edited by Dr. Weiss, " Police vice-president
"
of Berlin. It contains an account bearing on Frau Giinther-
Geffers and her alleged powers. Without entering into details,
4)08 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December, 1928
it will be enougli to state that the Konigsberg clairvoyante seems
to have failed completely in the attempt to imravel the mystery
of a double murder committed on the 19th of June last near
Soldin, Prussia, the victims of which were a Herr and Frau
Schulz. The statements made by Frau G.-G. appear to have
been either purely coujectural, or erroneous, or—worst of all
—
based on information already published in the newspapers (includ-
ing " Karl Lottes," the name of the soi-disant murderer). On
the whole a bad case for Frau G.-G.'s prestige as Kriminal-
telepathin ;
though no general conclusions can be drawn, of
course, from an isolated instance.
Kriminalistische Monatshefte, October 1928 (Dr. Weiss, Vice-
President of the Berlin police, editor). Kriminal-Direktor Her-
mann discusses recent clairvoyant experiments at Iserlohn which
had the object of clearing up a murder committed as far back as
September 1911 at Griinmannsheide near Iserlohn (mysterious
disappearance of a girl 21 years old). The girl's lover had been
at the time suspected, arrested, imprisoned and subsequently set
free, there being no evidence against him.
In July last an attempt was made, with the co-operation of
two Iserlohn police officials acting as privatleute, to unravel the
mystery through Frau Gerber-Wieghardt of Diisseldorf
.
The clairvoyante gave a series of very precise statements and
descriptions as to the missing girl and her supposed murderer,
but there is good reason to believe that this information may
have been supplied to her by G., a journalist, who had had
access to the dossier of the case and who seems to have played
a somewhat ambiguous part in the affair.
Meanwhile another experiment bearing on the same crime was
going on in Berlin with Frau Giinther-Gefiers (now well known to
readers of the Journal). The Konigsberg clairvoyante described the
murder but mentioned an altogether different person as the
murderer, giving his Christian name, surname and address.
Both Frau G.-G. and Frau G.-W. stated that the girl had been
strangled and thrown into water. As to this point there seems
to be some corroboration though of the vaguest kind.
To the author's general considerations a propos of the Iserlohn
case we hope to revert in course of time.
P.-P.-S.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. XXIV.
1 9 2 7 -
1 9 2 8
A
A., Miss." See Wingfield, Miss C. E.
Abramowski, E., Experiments in telepathy, Reference to - - 375-376
" Absent Sitter " Sittings 215, 219
Accounts of Receipts and Expenditure. See Society for Psychical
Research.
Acland, Miss S. A., Case contributed by 115
Adelphi Theatre, Enquiry into alleged haunt at 287
Aigner, Dr. Eduard, References to articles by - - - - 298, 299
Ajello, Elena, The case of - - - - 248
American S.P.R. Journal, Notes on - - - 27-28, 65-66, 128, 183, 268
„ ,, contiaued as Psychic Research - - - 269
Proceedings, Reference to cases in - - - - 12
Anderson, Mrs. Naomi, Reference to sitting with - - - 183
Animals, apparently affected by psychical phenomena - - 58-59
,, Apparitions of -------- "
^'^^
„ Survival of 376
„ Telepathic commimication with, Concerning - 29, 101, 135, 338-339
„ Thinkmg and calculating, On so-called - - 101, 135, 233, 269, 341
Annual General Meeting and Annual Report. See Society for Psychical
Research.
Apollonius, or the Present and Future of Psychical Research, by E. N.
Bennett. Review of ^
A 2
1 {)\\
iv Index to Vol. XXIV.
Apparition, at Briery Hill 352
., Collective, Reference to two Cases of - - - - 402
Apparitions, Animal 376
,, References to Cases of ------ - 405
Apport Phenomena, Pveferences to 66, 125, 140, 190
A propos de FIntroduction d la Metapsychique Humaine, by E. Bozzano.
Review of 107
Argamasilla, D. Joaquin, Experiments in clairvoyance with - - 405
Arithmetical and painting prodigies, On ... - - 207, 295
Articles of Association. See Society for Psychical Research.
Atashi, Syed Hussein, Fire-walking experiences in connection with
278-284, 325-327
Auditions in Christian practices. Reference to 240
Auditory hallucination, Induced 99
„ „ Reference to Cases of - - - 115, 205, 402
Auditory Impression - - - - - - - - - -115
Austrian Society for Psychical Research 233
Automatic Drawings and Paintings - - - -310-311,313,347,405
Writing - - - - 47, 163, 188, 231, 272, 289, 351, 394
,, ,, On the development of - - - - - - 272
„ ,, A name given in - - - - - - - 169
,, Question of copyright in ----- 30
Automatic Scripts purporting to he inspired by a Victorian Poet and
Novelist 351
Aymar, Jacques, Reference to the Case of 145
B
B.B.C. experiment. See Broadcast.
Baerwald, Dr. R., Okkultismus itnd Spiritismus und ihre iveltanschauliche
Folgerungen, by. Review of - - - - 289
„ References to Articles by 46, 102, 141, 165, 260, 300, 344
Baggally, W. W., On the death of - - - - 226, 242, 276-278
Barrett, H. T., Evidence contributed by - - - 98
,, Sir William, and Besterman, Theodore, The Divining Rod.
Review of ----------- 16
Baryta-Water Test 189-190
Basis, The, of Memory, by W. R. Bousfield 331
Battersea " poltergeist " Case 285-286
Baylis, Mrs. Batten, Reference to the mediumship of - - - - 271
Bazett, Miss L. Margery, Sittings with 215
Bennett, E. N., Apollonius, or the Present and Future of Psychical
Research. Review of --------- 90
Berlin Institute for Metapsj^chical Research ..... 407
Berliner Tageblatt, Notes on 65, 102
Index to Vol. XXIV.
Besterman, Theodore
—
Appointment as Hon. Librarian 50, 51, 214
„ on the Committee of the Central Library for Students 226
Bibliography of Dr. Hans Driesch . . - - 158, 160, 208
Co-optation as a member of Council 319
Evocation, The, of the Dead in Madagascar 303
On the review of The Divining Rod 44
Present Status of Dowsing in the British Press - - - - 152
References to Articles by 30, 270
Report of a Pseudo-Sitting for Physical Phenomena with Karl
Krs/US 388
Reviews 91- 104, 178
Short Notices of Books - - 163-164,239-240,292-294,399-400
The Society's Proceedings and Journal in British Libraries - - 335
Besterman, Theodore, and Barrett, Sir William, The Divining Rod.
Review of - - - - - 16, 44
Bim (" Calculating " dog). Reference to 233
Bird, J. Malcolm, References to Articles by
66, 133, 266, 269, 271, 294, 316, 403
Bisson, Mme., Controversy regarding. Reference to - 307-308, 309, 344
Blacher, Professor C, References to articles by - - 64, 101, 140, 144
Blaise (Alleged medium). See Mantes Seances.
Bond, F. Bligh, Experiments with a " thinking " pony. Reference to - 269
Book-Tests 4-11,70,268
,, ,, On the method of counting, in regard to the book indicated 73
Boston S.P.R. Bulletins, Notes and reviews of
28, 223-224, 271-272, 314-315, 329-331
Bousfield, Dr. Paul, and Bousfield, W. R., The Mind and its Mechanism.
Review of ' 103
Bousfield, W. R., Appointment of, as an elected Member of Council - 318
„ The Basis of Memory 331
„ and Bousfield, Dr. Paul, The Mind and its
Mechanism ----------- 103
Bozzano, Ernesto, A propos de FIntroduction a la Metaqysychique Humaine.
Review of ------ - 107
„ ,, References to articles by 339
Brackenbury, Mrs., Appointment as Assistant in the Research Depart-
ment " "
2^'^
Brain, On alleged radiations from the - - 126, 127, 133, 143, 146, 165
Breaker, George H., Report on Sittings, Reference to - - - 183, 269
Bridge, The, by Miss Nea Walker. References to reviews of 164, 362, 365
British Association, Papers read at the, by Dr. William Brown and
Dr. T. W. Mitchell 113, 221
British Journal of Psychical Research, Notes on - - 45, 147, 294-295, 375
Brittain, Mrs., Evidence obtained at a sitting with - - -
243-247
„ „ Psychical experiences of. Reference to - - - - 268
vi Index to Vol. XXIV.
Broadcast experiments in long-distance telepathy
—
In America ----------- 271
In England (S.P.R.) 48, 78, 215, 392, 393
In Germany 392-394
Brown, Dr. WiUiam, Mind and Personality. Review of - - - 182
,, ,, ,, Presidential Address to the Psychological Section
of the British Association - - 113-114,221
Browne, George E., Hypnagogic experiences - - - - 19, 22-24
Bruck, Dr. Carl, An alleged case of premonition ----- 308
Briihl, Father Norbert, Attack on Mme. Bisson, Reference to 307-308
Briihn, C, Gelehrte in Hypnose, Reference to ----- 29
Bull, Dr. Titus, Treatment of insanity. Reference to - - 232-333, 347
Burns, Dr. Geoffrey G. H., References to articles by - - - 347, 403
Butler, Dom Cuthbert, Western Mysticism ------ 163
C
C., Eva, On the mediumship of - - - - 29, 32, 307-308, 309, 344
" Calculating Boys." See Arithmetical Prodigies.
Calvert, H. R., Hypnagogic experiences 20-21
Card-Guessing Experiments, References to - - - - - 184, 208
Card-Guessing, Recent Exjoeriments in ------- 319
An appeal for help 184
Carnegie United Kingdom Trust, Grant to the Society - 130, 131, 214
Carrington, Dr. Hereward, On increases of weight in fasting Cases ; and
on the phenomena of Bert Reese ------ 337-338
Case, The, for and against Psychical Belief, Course of lectures on, at
Clark University. Review of - 104-107
Cases
—
L., - - - - 1, 2, 4, 53, 70, 94, 115, 169, 193, 243, 303, 379
G., 227, 352
Cases, Notes on 284-287
CazzamaUi, Professor F., On alleged cerebral radiations
126, 127, 133, 143, 146, 165
Chaffin, James L., On the Case of the Will of . . - 177-178
Chinese Ghouls and Goblins, by G. Willoughby Meade - - - - 292
Clairvoyance among primitive peoples ----- 30, 266
,,
Attempts to trace dead bodies or lost objects, or to clear
up crimes. References to - 145, 299-300, 306, 308, 375, 408
,, References in periodical literature to
13, 30, 47-48, 64, 75-76, 124, 134, 135, 138, 141, 145, 259-260,
270, 298, 300, 338, 341, 342, 374, 404, 405
See also Giinther-Geffers, Frau.
Clairvoyance and Materialisation, by Gustave Geley. Review of - - 91
Clark University, Course of lectures at, on Psychical Belief - 38, 104-107
Cochet, Georges. See Forthuny, Pascal.
Index to Vol. XXIV. vii
Coincidence, fortuitous, Reference to article on - - - - - 298
Coleridge's Kuhla Khan, reviewed as an example of the alleged creative
powers of the subconscious mind ------ 179-180
Collective " Spirit possession and speaking in tongues," Case of,
Reference to 204
Committees. See Society for Psychical Research.
Congress for Psychical Research, Third International - - 108, 132, 221
Papers read ---------- 132-137
Reports in periodicals 204, 223, 314
Conjuring tricks and the imitation of occult phenomena. On - 204, 205
Conseil des Recherches Metapsychiques de Belgique, Bulletin, Notes on - 406
Cooper, Mrs. Blanche, Mediumship of ----- - 14, 268
Coover, Dr. John E., Lecture on psychical research at Clark University,
References to 104, 106, 107
Corrales, Senorita, Reference to the mediumship of - - - - 315
Correspondence 12, 30, 44, 60, 88, 155, 156, 174, 177, 208, 257, 336, 337, 370
Courtier, Professor Jules, On Eusapia Palladino's levitation phenomena 232
Crandon, Dr., " Some Critical Aspects of the Margery Mediumship
"
186-193, 348
Craufurd, Captain Q. C. A., On the phenomena of the fire-walk - 327-329'
Crawford, Dr., Reference to the work of 27
Cross-Correspondences, On the Significance of - - - - - 151
" The Master Builder " - - - 174-177, 310
References to - - 125, 137, 277, 310, 404, 406
Cummins, Geraldine, The Scripts of Cleophas. Review of - - - 394
D
Dadirrian, D. L., Experience by, forming part of a collective hallucina-
tion 402
Dagma, On the mediumship of 134, 167, 299, 404
d'Albe, Dr. Fournier, On the Goligher Circle, Reference to - - 141-142
Dallas, Miss H. A., Case contributed by 243-247
,, ,, ,, Leaves from a Psychic Note Book - - - 164
Dead, Information unknown to the living given apjiarently by the,
References to Cases of 178
Deane, Mrs., On the " psychic " photographs of - - - - 268, 315
Death Coincidence, A ---------- 94
de Bray, M. Gheury, Hypnopompic visions 19, 21-22
Desoille, R., References to articles by 133, 265
Dessoir, Professor Max, On the clairvoyant " Helene Schnelle " - - 124
Diebel, Paul, Imitation of stigmatisation. Reference to - - 308, 341
Difficulties experienced by Spirit Controls, by Miss Jessie C. Niven - 163
Dingwall, E. J.
—
Appointment as Research Officer, Termination of - - - 51
Concerning the Annual General Meeting . - - - 212, 257
A3
viii Index to Vol. XXIV.
Dingwall, E. J.
—
Hoiv to go to a Medium 180
Notes on Periodicals - - - 13-15, 27-30, 45-47, 64-66, 74-76
Questions put at the Requisitioned Meeting - - - - 324, 351
References to articles by ------ - 125, 141
Reviews 32, 47, 66-68, 76
,, Reply to a criticism by Dr. Prince ----- 60
Dingwall, Mrs. E. J., Concerning the Schneider mediumship - - 108
Direct voice phenomena, and experiments to get evidence of independ-
ence of 189-190
Divining Rod, References to Articles on 299, 311
See also Dowsers and Dowsing.
Divining Rod, The, by Sir William Barrett and Theodore Besterman.
Review of 16, 44-45
Divinity, The, in Man, by Dr. John W. Graham. Review of - - 160
Dodds, Professor E. R., Co-optation of, as a Member of Council - - 220
,, ,, ,, Election as Member of Council - - - 318
Doe, George M., Two personal experiences 156-158
Domanska, Mme., Reference to the mediumship of - - - - 313
Dowden, Mrs., Sittings with 215
Dowsers of To-day, Articles on or references to - - - - 267, 346
Dowsing, The Present Status of, in the British Press . - - - 152
Doyle, Sir A. Conan, History of Spiritualism. Reference to Dr. Till-
yard's review of ---------- 14
Dream prevision experiences - - - - - - - - 119
Dream, Recurrent, giving verdical information unknown to the dreamer
336-337
„ Telepathic 379
Dreams, General references ------ 157-158, 405
Driesch, Dr. Hans, References to articles by 65-66, 106, 124, 136, 142, 144,
165, 166, 204, 344, 374
„ Der Mensch und die Welt 399
„ Mind and Body ------- 158
„ ,, ,, Concerning ----- 208
„ Re-election as President . - - - 35, 213
„ Report on some Sittings with " Margery " - - 50
„ „ „ „ „ Mirabelli - - 407
Droste, Annette, Reference to alleged supernormal power of - - 165
Droste zu Hiilshoff, Freiherr, References to articles by - - 144, 165
Dunne, J. W., An Ex-periment ivith Time. Review of - - - - 119
Dunraven, Lord, Sittings with D. D. Home, Concerning - - - 88-89
E
Ectoplasm, References to 29, 45, 188-189, 288
Edmund Gurney Fund, Application of the capital of the - - - 214
Index to Vol. XXIV. ix
Education paroptique, line Decouverte du monde visuel par une aveugle.
Review of ---------- - 234
Elliott, Mrs. Warren, References to sittings ^vith - 38, 169, 173-174, 215, 219
Eltinge, Alfred, Phenomena observed with Jlr. X., Reference to - - 183
Estabrooks, Dr. G. H., .4 Contribution to Experiymntal Telepathy- - 329
,, ,, Two Cases of induced Auditory Hallucination - 99
Etherington, R. A., Case confirmed by 384
Etudes, Notes on 267
Evans, Harold, AUeged detection of fraud in the mediumship of - 15, 64
^YAJis-\\entz,\\LY., The Tibetan Book of the Dead ... - 164
Evidential incidents 314-315
Evocation, The, of the Dead in Madagascar ------ 303
Ewald, Dr. G., On the case of Theresa Neumann - - 251, 252-253
Experiences in Spiritualism with D. D. Home, Concerning - - - 88-89
Experiment, An, with Time, by J. W. Dunne. Review of - - - 119
F
r.. Dr. J. R. C, Evidence contributed by - - - - - - 117
Faculte, Une, de connaissance supra-norrnale, by Dr. Osty. Review of 47
Fakir phenomena and performances. References to - - 124-125, 232
Fakir's Curse, Reference to 403 (footnote)
Farigoule, Louis. See Romains, Jules.
Fastenrath, Fritz, On the mediumship of 75, 134
Fatalism or Freedom, by C. Judson Herrick 163
Feilding, Hon. Everard, Review of E. J. Dingwall's How to go to a
Medium 180-181
„ ,, Review of jVIt. Hoagland's Report on Sittings
with " Margery,'' Reference to - - - 24
Finger-prints (" Margery " mediumship) .... 191-193,403
Fire Walk, The 278-284, 325-329
Fischer, Dr. Oskar, References to articles by - - - - 126, 134
Fleury, Louis, On the case of 207, 295
Ford, Rev. Arthvir, " Clairaudient " medium .... 357-361
Forthuny, Pascal, On the mediumship of ----- - 47-48
,, ,, References to articles by .... 127, 128
Fothergill, E., " The Curse of Tut-Ankh-Amen," References to - 375, 403
From Worlds Unseen, by M.A. 293
Fryer, Rev. A. T., Evidence collected by 379-386
Fulham, Alleged haunt at 285
Future Life, Questionnaire on Human Sentiment with regard to a.
Reference to 91
G
G., Miss Ethel, Evidence contributed by 229
Gargon, Maurice, On Healers and their Practices - - - 401-402
X Index to Vol. XXIV.
Oelehrte in Hypnose, by C. Bruhn. Reference to - - - - 29
Geley, Gustave, Clairvoyance and Materialisation. Review of - - 91-92
Gerber-Wieghardt, Frau, Reference to experiments in clairvoyance with 408
Glossary, International, for psychical research. Question of compiling - 221
Goddard, Dr. Henry Herbert, Two Souls in one Body ? - - . 295
Goldmann, Dr. Otto, Reference to article by 308
Goligher, Kathleen, On the mediumship of - - - 27, 141-142, 262
Gospels of Oahspe 240
Gough, A. B., On " The Master Builder " Cross-correspondence - 174-175
Gow, David, Human Personality and the Proof of Survival - - 200
Grabharu, Dr. M., Evidence contributed by 117
Graham, Dr. John W., The Divinity in Man. Review - - - 160
Graham, Mrs. See Tillyard, Aelfrida.
Green, Miss Dorothy, Confirmatory evidence contributed by - - 157
Green, Mrs., Reference to the Case of, pubUshed in Proceedings - - 260'
Grey of Fallodon, Lady, Obituary 378
Grey of Fallodon, Lord and Lady, Case contributed by - - - 70
Grondahl, I. C, Concerning the Extraordinary General Meeting - - 370
Griiber, Professor Karl, Reference to articles on - - - - - 143
Gruzewski, Marjan, On the mediumship of - - - 14, 310-311, 347
Guessing of cards, Experiments in - - - - - 184, 208, 319
Giinther-Geffers, Frau, On the mediumship and trial of
167, 306-307, 339, 340, 342, 343, 372, 396-398, 407, 408
Kaschnicki case -------- 343, 372, 397
Guzik, Jean, On the mediumship of - - - 45, 131, 234, 271, 368-370
H
H., Fred, Evidence contributed by 229-230
Hall, A. F., Concerning Mr. Piddington's " One Crowded Hour of
Glorious Life " - - - - - - - - 155
„ „ On the objections of, to Cross-correspondences as furnishing
evidence of survival 151
Hallucination of a Cat, Concerning an 12
„ Collective, Case of 227
„ Induced, Two Cases of 99
„ Veridical, Reference to alleged Case of - - - 205-206
Hansen and Lehmann, Messrs., Theory of unconscious whispering in
relation to telepathy. References to experiments to test - 46, 102
Haunts, Cases of alleged 284-287
Healers and their practices 401-402
Hellseherin, Die, Betrachtungen eines ihrer " geistigen Fiihrer " zum
Insterburger Hellseherprozess. Review of - - - - - 396
HeUwig, Dr. Albert, Okkultismus iind Wissenschaft. Review of, and
references to - - - - - 29, 32, 75
References to articles by - - 299-300, 306, 397
Index to Vol. XXIV. xi
Henderson, A. F., Case contributed by 94
Henderson, Mrs. A. F., Confirmatory evidence by - - - - 98-99
Herrick, C. Judson, Fatalism or Freedom 163
Herzberg, Dr. Alexander, Methode xmd Ergehnisse des Berliner Rund-
funkversuchs. Review of ------- - 392
Hessel, Frau, Reference to mediumship of - - - - - - 374
Heuze, Paul, References to articles by 124, 208
Heyn, Leila Holterhoff, and Rene Maublanc, Une education paroptique 234
Hibhert Journal, Notes on 46, 348
Higher Spiritualism, The, by John C. Leonard - - - - - 163
Hill, J. Arthur, Article in Congregational Quarterly, Reference to - - 74
,, ,, Co-optation of, as a Member of Council - - 110,220
Histoire du Spiritualisrne experimental, by C. de Vesme - - - 240
Hodge, J. P., Case contributed by 53
Hodgson, Dr. R., References to - - - - - - - 364-365
Hoffmann, Professor R., Sittings with Rudi Schneider, Reference to - 74
Hohenwarter, Dr., Reference to articles by- - - - - 311-312
Hollnsteiner, Dr. John, On the case of Theresa Neumann - - 247, 249
Home, D. D., Allegation of fraud against - - - - - - 168
„ ,, Collection of MSS. and relics belonging to - - - 40, 74
,, ,, Concerning Lord Dunraven's Sittings with - 46, 88-89, 102
Hooke, Captain T. C. B., and Mrs. Hooke, Evidence contributed by 352-357
Hoseason, A. G., Case contributed by 303
Houdini, References to the work of - - - - - - 125, 141
How to go to a Mediimi, by E. J. Dingwall. Review of - - - 180
Human Personality and the Proof of Survival ----- 200
Huramowicz, Mme. Sabira. See Sabira.
Huxley, Professor Julian, Co-optation of, as a Member of Council - 220
Hyperaesthesia and Clairvoyance ------ 64, 141
Hypnagogic Phenomena, Note on - - - - - - - 19
" Hypnotism, The Alleged Action of Nervous Effluence in " - - 18
Hypnotic Experiments, Reference to ...... 373
Ideler, Mme., On the mediumship of 140-141, 144
Ind, Mrs. F., Case contributed by 352-357
Indridason, Ni, Reference to sittings with 123
Inquiry into Human Sentiment regarding a Future Life, Reference to 91
Irving, Rev. W. S., Book-tests contributed by 4
Irving, Rev. W. S., and Summers, F. J., Case investigated by - - 352
Jacks, Dr. L. P., Resignation from the Council - - - - 318
Jahn, Professor Ludwig, Reference to article by 75
xii Index to Vol. XXIV.
Janet, Dr. Pierre, De I'angoisse a Vextase, Reference to - - - 65
Jaschke, Willy K., Bibliography of the case of Theresa Neumann 254-255
,, ,, Die parapsychologischen Erscheinungeri - - - 76
Jastrow, Dr. Joseph, Lecture on psychical research at Clark University,
Reference to 104, 106-107
Java, On psychical phenomena in ----- - 145-146
Jephson, Miss Ina, Co-optation of, as a Member of Council - - - 351
„ „ Experiments in Card- Guessing - 184, 220, 270, 319
„ „ „ „ Thought-transference - - 50, 79-88
Joad, C. E. M., The Mind and Its Workings 163
John, Mrs., Sitting with Mrs. Leonard and sequel - - - 243-247
Johnson, George Lindsay, The Great Problem and the Evidence for its
Solution 293, 348
Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart.
—
Concerning evidence for Survival ------ 336-337
Election as President 185, 210
Obituary Notice : Miss C. E. Wingfield 113
Presidential Address 185, 275
Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology, Notes on - - - - 66
K
Kahn, Ludwig, On the mediumship of - - - 141, 259-260, 299
Kaschnicki Case. See Giinther-Geffers, Fraii.
Katoda, Mme., Reference to mediumship of 140
Keene, Mrs. Sally, Note on the records of, of automatic writing and
trance speaking 272
Kennaway, Miss M., Hypnagogic experiences 19, 21
Kerrigan Case, Reference to _ . . 375
Kessingland, Reference to case at ------ - 220
King, Mrs., Script of. See Cross-correspondence : " The Master
Builder."
Klein, Professor H. J., Reference to article by 29
Klette, Frau Anita, Reference to experiments with . - - . 405
Klinckowstroem, Count Carl v.. Election of, as Corresponding Member 211
„ „ ,, References to articles by
13, 16, 44, 45, 46, 102, 125, 141, 147, 232, 300, 307, 308, 309, 344
Kluslsi, Reference to Professor Ch. Richet's experiments with - - 137
Konnersreuth Case. See Neumann, Theresa.
Kosten, Alleged poltergeist disturbances at 224
Kotterbach, Alleged poltergeist distiu-bances at 224
Krall, Karl, References to articles by - - 14, 29, 46, 101, 102, 135, 314
Krallinger, Dr., On Frau Rudloff's mirror drawings - - - 296-297
Kraus, Karl, On the alleged mediumship of - - - 133, 308, 339
„ „ Report of a Pseudo-sitting for physical phenomena with 388
Kriminalistische Monatshefte, Notes on 407, 408
Index to Vol. XXIV. xiii
Kroner, Dr. W., References to articles bj^
123, 134, 136, 342, 343, 372, 407
Kuczera, Aleksander, Report on a case of physical phenomena. Reference
to 313
" L'accord Telepathique," by Rene Warcollier - - 274, 319-323, 402
Lambert, G. W., Appointed an elected Member of Council - - 274-275
„ „ Review of Dr. J. W. Graham's The Divinity in Man 160
Lambert, Mrs. Helen C, A General Survey of Psychical Phenomena - 399
,, „ ,, Reference to articles hy - - - 232-233
Lambert, R., On the '
Margery " Case - - - 101-102, 123, 125
„ References to articles by - 135,165,232,267,299,310,344
Laplace, Jeanne, Reference to experiments in psychometry with - - 403
UAu-Dela. Face au prohleme de V immortalite, by Charles Xordmann.
Review of ---------- ' 287
Lawrence, Mrs. C, Evidence contributed by 117
Leaf, Dr. Walter, Obituary 52
Leaning, Mrs. F. E., Notes on Hypnagogic Phenomena - - - 19
On " Calculating Boys," Reference to - - - 295
„ „ Spiritualistic phenomena amongst N. American
Indians ------- 347, 375
,, ,, Survival of Animals ------ 376
Leaves from a Psychic Note Book, hj Miss R. A. Dallds - - - 164
Lebiedzinski, M., Reference to an article by 134
Lee, Blewett, Reference to articles by 30
Lehmann, Professor A. See Hansen & Lehmann, Messrs.
Leinweber, Frau Maria, Reference to article by 231
Leonard, John C, The Higher Spiritualism 163
Leonard, Mrs. Osborne, Trance phenomena of
—
Book-Tests 4-11, 70
General references - - - - - - - ,
' 123, 134
Sittings (S.P.R.), References to 215, 219
• Some incidents which may throw light on the Modus Operandi " 350
Veridical information on matters unknown to the Sitter
193-200, 244, 303
See also Life Beyond Death with Evidence.
Lesage, Augustia, On the automatic paintings of - - 128, 265, 347
Levitation, The phenomena of, Reference to article on - - - 403
„ Trick producing appearance of 391
Lewis, John, On the exposure of the medium Evans - - - - 64
Library, Reorganisation of. See Society for Psychical Research.
Life Beyond Death idth Evidence, by the Rev. C. D. Thomas. Review of 398
Lifton, Disturbances at '
286
Liveing, Mrs., On the Cure of Ars, reference to 46
xiv Index to Vol. XXIV.
Lodge, Sir Oliver
—
" The case for Psychical Research," References to - - 150, 270
Cases communicated ------- 53, 94, 115, 278
Obituary : Viscountess Grey of Fallodon 378
On the phenomena investigated in psychical research. Reference to 14
On the significance of Cross-correspondences - - - - 151
Radiant energy and Metapsychical Phenomena - - - - 136
" Reality of Survival," Reference to 128
" The University Aspect of Psychical Research " (Lecture at Clark
University) 105-106
Why I believe in Personal Immortality ------ 332
Lotsy, Dr. J. P. See " Nature :
" On Science and Psychical Research.
Lowes, John Livingston, The Road to Xanadu. Review of - - - 178
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs. Alfred, Co-optation of, as a Member of Council - 351
M
Madeleine. See Dr. Janet's De Vangoisse a Vextase.
Mahaluxmivala, P. D., Experience in fire-walking - - - 282-284
Maikoff messages. See Nadia. Y.
Maire, Maurice, Reference to articles by - - - - - - 311
Malpas, Reference to investigation at - - - - - - - 220
Mantes, Materialisation seances at 125-126, 264-265, 313-314, 344, 345, 346
Marcinowski, Dr., Reference to articles by - - - - - - 405
Margery-Harvard- Veritas, Dr. Prince on ----- - 25-26
" Margery " Mediumship, Concerning the
24-26, 27-29, 45, 50, 66, 101-102, 105, 124, 133, 142, 186-193,
266, 269, 271, 295, 316, 346, 347, 348, 376, 403, 406
Massey, Miss C, Evidence contributed by 117
" Master Builder, The," Cross-correspondence, On the - - 174-177
Mattieson, Dr. E., References to articles by
14, 30, 64, 146, 167, 206, 263, 297, 298, 342, 343, 372, 404, 406
See also " On some Critical Methods."
Maublanc, Rene, and Leila Holterhoff Heyn, Une education paroptique 234
McComas, Professor, Sitting with " Margery." 27-28
McConnel, Mrs., Statement connected with the " White Case," Reference
to 295
McDougall, Professor W., On the " Margery " mediumship. Reference to 28-29
„ „ „ " Psychical Research as a University Study " 105
McDowall, Dr. R. J. S., The Mind 239
McKenzie, Mrs. Mary, Reference to sittings with - - - 183, 269
Meade, G. WiUoughby, Chinese Ghouls and Goblins . . . - 292
Mediumistic phenomena. References to ------ 14
See also Trance phenomena.
Mediumistic Trance, The Phenomena of, by Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Reference
to - - - 221
Index to Vol. XXIV. XV
Members and Associates. See Society for Psychical Research.
Menager, Dr., Experiments in the artificial productions of casts of inter-
laced human hands - - - - - - - - - 137
Mensch, Der, und die Welt, by Dr. Hans Driesch 399
Mercure de France, Notes on 126, 147, 314
Mesmer, Franz Anton : Leben, Werk und Wirkungen, hyJi.ndoUTischneT 292
Messer, Professor August, References to articles by
29, 165, 296, 297-298, 309, 312
,, ,, ,, Wissenschaftlic.her Okkultismus. Review of 139-140
Methode und Ergebnisse des Berliner Rundjimkversuchs, by Dr. A.
Herzberg. Review of -------- - 392
Mind, The - - - 239
Mind and Body, by Professor Hans Driesch. Review of - - - 158
Mind, The, and Its Mechanism, by Dr. Paul Bousfield and W. R. Bous-
field, K.C. Review of 103
Mind and Personality, by William Brown, M.D. Review of - - 182
Mind, The, and Its Workings, by C. E. M. Joad 163
Mirabelli, Carlos, On the mediumship of - - - - 127, 144, 407
Mitchell, Dr. T. W., The Phenomena of Mediumistic Trance. Reference
to 113, 221
Modus Operandi, On the, of trance communications . - . - ,350
Morning Post, Reference to articles on " Spiritualism and the Church
"
in 37
Munnings, F. J., Alleged mediumship of - - - . - . 15
Murray, Professor Gilbert, Resignation from the Council - - - 318
„ „ „ Telepathic experiments of. Reference to - 260
N
Nagel, Professor Dr. Robert, Reference to article by - - - - 404
National Laboratory of Psychical Research, Eleonore Ziigun and the - 60-63
,, ,, ,, Proceedings of. Notes on - 64-65
Nature, Articles and Correspondence in. References to
14-15, 19, 21-22, 30, 37, 348
Neligan, Harry L., and Seymour, St. John D., True Irish Ghost Stories.
Review of ----------- 92
Neumann, Theresa, The case of 204, 205, 247-296, 297-298, 308, 311, 312, 337,
339, 340, 342, 374, 400-401, 406
Neumann, Dr. Wilhelm, Reference to articles by - 135, 338-339, 341
Newton, Miss I., Corroborative statements by - - - - 10, 11
„ „ Experiments in thought-transference - - 39, 79
Nielsson, Professor, Reference to article by 123
Nikolsburg, Alleged poltergeist disturbances at 224
Ninoff, Georges, On the alleged powers of telepathy of - - 14, 29
Niven, Miss Jessie C, Automatic Script of 163
Nodon, Albert, Reference to experiments in animal radio-activity by - 268
xvi Index to Vol. XXIV.
Nordmann, Charles, UAu-dela. Face au probleme de V immartalite.
Review of -
287
Noted Witnesses for Psychic Occurrences, by Dr. W. F. Prince - - 400
Notes on Periodicals 13, 27, 45, 64, 74, 101, 123, 140, 165, 183, 204, 223, 231,
262, 294, 307, 338, 372, 401
Notices of books . . . . 163-164, 239-240, 292-294, 399-401
Notices of Meetings 17, 33, 69, 77, 93, 109, 129, 209, 241, 273, 301, 317, 349, 377
Notre sixieme Sens, by Professor Charles Richet. Review of - 258-261
Notting Hill Gate, Disturbances reported at a house in - - 286-287
" Nungesser," Reference to the predictions of 406
Nusslein, H., On the automatic paintings of . . . . . 405
0
Obituary Notices
—
BaggaUy, W. W. 226, 276
Grey of Fallodon, Viscountess - 378
Leaf, Dr. Walter - - - - 52
Smithson, Mrs. Edward 226-227
Wingfield, Miss C. E. 113
Occult Review, Notes on --------- 30
Ochorowicz, Dr., Conception of a telepathic rapport, Reference to 403-404
Oesterreich, Professor T. K., References to articles by - - 102, 136
„ ,, ,, Die Probleme der Einheit und der Spaltung
des Ich. Review of - - - - 371
„ Les Possedes 239-240
Okkultismus, Der, Notes on 262-263
Okkultisinus und Spiritismus und ihre weltanschauliche Folgerungen, by
Dr. R. Baerwald. Review of 289
Okkultismus und Wissenschaft, by Dr. A. Hellwig - - - 29, 32, 75
" One Crowded Hour of Glorious Life," Concerning - - - - 155
Ossowiecki, S., Reference to experiments with - - - - - 142
Osty, Dr. Eugene, References to articles by
45, 135, 145, 168, 207, 265, 310-311, 346, 347
,, „ Vnejacultedeconnaissancesupra-normale. Review of 47
Overstreet, Professor, Sitting with " Margery " 27-28
P
Pagenstecher, Dr., References to articles by - 146, 298, 309, 338, 341
Paleas, On the alleged mediumship of 101, 140
Palladino, Eusapia, On the mediumship of - - - - 232, 277, 347
On the S.P.R. investigation of - - - 125, 299
V&lvaeT, Ti. CleTsihaxi, The Riddle of Spiritualism ----- 240
Paraffin gloves. Normal methods of producing - - - - 125, 191
Parapsychologischen Erscheinungen, Die, by Willy K. Jaschke. Review of 76
Index to Vol. XXIV. xvii
Parkin, John, Eleonore Ziigun and the National Laboratory of Psychical
Research 60-63
Patience Worth, The Case of. References to - - - 178-179, 348, 394
Pelz, Herr v.. Die Hellseherin, Beirachtungev, eines ihrer " geistigen
Fiihrer " zum Insterburger Hellseherprozess. Review of - - 396
Periodicals, Notes on 13, 27, 45, 64, 74, 101, 123, 140, 165, 183, 204, 223, 231,
262, 294, 307, 338, 372, 401
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, Count
—
Articles by. References to 46, 102, 141, 308
Concerning Lord Dunraven's sittings with D. D. Home - - 88-89
Note on an early exposure of Guzik 368
Note on the Giiather-GeSers case 306
Notes on Periodicals
125-128, 140-148, 165-168, 204-208, 221, 224, 231-234, 262-267,
295-300, 307-314, 338-346, 372-375, 401-402, 404-408
On Some " Critical " Methods 361
Report on the Thkd International Congress 132
Reviews 258-261, 287, 289, 400
PersonaUty, Dual, Reference to case of 293
Peter, Mrs., Case concerning 193-200
Peyotl, On the psychological effects of . . . . 66-68, 265
Peyron, Baroness Anna v.. References to alleged supernormal experiences
of 372-373
Pfister, Dr. 0., References to articles by - - - - - 102, 123
Phdnomen, Das, von Konnersreuth ini Lichte Evangelischen Glaubens - 400
Physical phenomena, Foot used in simulating - 370 (footnote), 392
,, „ in current Uterature
14, 15, 37, 76, 181, 271-272, 313, 340-341, 343, 373
See also Mediumship of " Margery ;
" and R. and W. Schneider.
Piddington, J. G., On " The Master Builder " Cross-correspondence 175-177
„ „ " One Crowded Hour of Glorious Life," Concerning 155-156
Pierce, Theron P., Reference to report by, on a sitting with Mrs. Anderson 183
Piper, Mi-s., On the mediumship of - - - - 260-261, 365, 366
„ „ Sittings with the Boston S.P.R. 39
Plaat, Frau Lotte, Reference to psychometrical experiments with 297, 340
Plante, La, qui fait les yeiix emerveilles : Le Peyotl, by A. Rouhier.
Review of ----------- 66
Plotinus, On - 161-162
Pohsh Metapsychical Society 234
PoHsh publications. Articles and cases in - 142, 143, 233-234, 312-313
Polish Society for Psychical Research 234
Political State, The, of Great Britain, 1738, Record of a poltergeist
case in 26-27
Poltergeist cases. An appeal for early notification of - - - - 39
References to 26-27, 46, 143, 145-146, 147, 167, 224, 309
See also Ziigun, Eleonore.
xviii Index to Vol. XXIV.
Possedes, Les, by T. K. Oesterreich - 239-240
Prague, Alleged physical phenomena at - - - - - 340-341
Premonition, References to cases of ----- - 135, 405
President, Elections of - 37, 210, 213
Presidential Address 185, 275
Prevision, Dream - - - - - 119
Experimental 120, 123
,, References to articles on ----- - 401, 404
Price, Harry, References to articles by 64-65, 128, 133, 165, 166, 183, 269,
294, 347-348, 375, 401, 403
,, Library on Magic and Witchcraft - - - - 114,214
Prideaux, Dr., " A Psychologist's Attitude towards Telepathy,"
Reference to 221 (footnote)
Primitive Peoples, Clairvoyance among ----- 30, 266
Prince, Dr. W. Franklin
—
Articles by. References to - - - 134, 223-224, 271-272, 340
Clark University, Lecture at - - - - - - - 106
Concerning an Hallucination of a Cat 12-13
Concerning the " Margery " case 25-26
Footnote to a Review {The Psychic in the House) - - - - 57
Noted Witnesses for Psychic Occurrences ----- 400
Sittings with Rudi Schneider, Frau Silbert, and J. Guzik - - 131
Problem, The Great, by G. L. Johnson 293, 348
Probleme, Die, der Einheit und der Spaltung des Ich, by T. K. Oesterreich 371
Probleme, Die, des Mediumism.ns, by Dr. J. M. Verweyen. Review of 261-262
Proceedings and Journal of the Society in British Libraries - - - 335
Prophecies, References to alleged - - - 162, 342, 372, 405, 406
Pruden, Mrs., On the mediumship of 128
Przybylska, Mme., On the mediumship of 134
Pseudo-Scripts, An experiment in ------ - 111
Psyche, Notes on 28, 108, 148
Psychic gloves or hands. On the normal production of - 137, 295, 376
Psychic, The, in the House, Dr. Prince on the Review of - - - 57
Psychic photographs of Mrs. Deane, On the 268
Psychic Research, Notes on - 269, 270-271, 294, 316, 346-348, 375-376, 402-404
Psychic Science, Notes on 267-268, 315, 348
Psychical Research, Attitude of orthodox science to - 37, 147, 221-222
Psychical Research, The Case for, hy iOi OWyeT \^od.g& . - . . 150
Psychical research, On the methods of theoretical - - - - 65
Psychologic, La, d'aujourd'hui, by J. J. Biervliet ----- 293
Psychometry, Experimental - . - - 134, 135, 297, 341, 403
„ On the phenomenon of 106, 341
Q
Quinn, H. C, Experience in fire-walking - - - - 281-282
Index to Vol. XXIV. xix
R
Radiations, Human, On the supposed - - 146, 268-269, 300, 316, 347
Radwan-Radziszewski, M., Reference to the mediumship of - - 313
Raps, Hallucinatory, Induced by auto-suggestion - - - 100-101
Rasmussen, Anna, On the mediumship of - 126, 269-270, 271, 294, 347, 375
Rautenberg, Max, Reference to experiments with, in the identification
of playing cards
" Rawson, Miss." See Wingfield, Miss C. E.
Rebus, Exposure of the medium Guzik in 368- 36&
Reese, Bert, On the aUeged mediumship of - - - 141, 259, 337-338
Reismann, Dr. R., On the Case of Theresa Neumann - - - 250-251
Reitz, Dr., Experiments in thought-transference and clairvoyance.
Reference to
Report of a Pseudo-sitting for Physical Phenomena with Karl Kraus - 388
Revalo Bund, Notes on 14, 29, 64
Reviews 16, 32, 47, 66, 76, 90, 91, 92, 103, 119, 138, 139, 158, 160, 178, 180,
182, 234, 258, 261, 287, 289, 329, 331, 332, 371, 392, 394, 396, 398.
See also Notices of books.
Remie Metapsijchique, Notes on 45, 75-76, 126-128, 145-146, 148, 167-168,
207-208, 265-266, 310-311, 345-346, 401-402
Revue Metapsychique beige. Notes on 125-126
Revue Spirite beige, ^oi^s on - - - - 264-265,313-314,344-345
Rhine, Dr. and Mrs., On their sitting mth " Margery " - - - 66
Richardson, Dr. Mark, Reference to report by, on experiments in
thought-transference Margery " case) - 346, 347, 348, 376, 403
Richet, Professor Charles, Articles by. References to
128, 266, 308, 309, 346, 401
„ Notre sixieme Sens, by. Review of - 258-261
Riddle of Spiritualism, The
Riga S.P.R. See " Seelenprobleme."
Rolf. See Thinking Animals.
Romains, Jules, Experiments with clairvoyants and blind people.
Reference to 234-235 (footnote)
Rope-trick, Indian, References to articles on - 124, 137-138, 311, 345
Rosenbusch, Dr. Hans, Accusations of fraud agaiast Eleonore Ziigun
266, 300, 308, 339
References to articles by - - 13-14. 65, 102, 125
Rouhier, Alexandre, La Plante qui fait les yeux emerveilles : Le Peyotl.
Review of
Rudloff, Frau Maria, On the mediumship of - 146, 167, 206-207, 263, 296-297
Rutot, A., Reference to article by ------ "
S
S., Oskar, Reference to exposure of - - - - -
\ \
'^^^
Sabira, Mile. M., Alleged clairvoyant faculties of - - - 75-76, 142, 234
XX Index to Vol. XXIV.
Sadhu Sundar Singh, References to ----- - 102, 123
Sadowski, Experiments with a dog (" Bim ") . . . . . 233
Sagendorph, Mrs. ,
Report on some experiments with mediums, Reference to 28
Sainville, Le Loup de, Telepathic experiments of, References to 207-208, 402
Salter, W. H.—
" An Experiment in Pseudo- Scripts " Ill
Report of a case of collective hallucination - - - - 228-231
Review of The Divining Rod 16
" Some Automatic Scripts purporting to be inspired by a Victorian
Poet and Novelist " 351
Salter, Mrs. W. H.—
Evidence contributed 173
" Incidents occurring at Sittings with Mrs. Leonard " - - - 350
Notes on books and periodicals 128, 164, 183, 267-271, 294-295, 315-316,
346-348, 375-376, 402-404
Review of True Irish Ghost Stories 92
Script of. See Cross-correspondence :
" The Master Builder."
Saltmarsh, H. F., Work done by 219
Sambor, On the mediumship of 262-263, 373
Schiller, F. C. S., D.Sc—
Evidence collected 118
Experiments with Mr. Sinel's medium - - - 138-139, 255-256
Inquiry into Human Sentiment regarding a Future Life, Reference to 91
Lecture at Clark University on psychical research - - - 106
Notes on periodicals 101-102, 123-125
Reviews - - 90, 107, 138-140, 158, 208, 255, 261, 332, 371, 392
Schlosser, Oscar, Reference to evidence contributed by, on Indian
conjuring tricks 232
Schneider, Willi and Rudi, On the mediumship of
29, 32, 74, 108, 126, 128, 131, 143, 147, 148, 165
166-167, 204-205, 261, 271, 307, 315, 340, 373, 375
Schnelle, Helene, Reference to clairvoyance of - - - - - 124
Schrenck-Notzing, Baron v.. References to articles by 13-14, 133, 143, 147,
165, 204-205, 224, 308, 309, 340, 373, 405, 406
Sittings with Karl Kraus - - 388,391
Schroder, Professor Dr. Chr., References to articles by 64, 146, 167, 206-207,
263, 296, 297, 298, 342, 343, 372, 373, 405, 407
Science and Psychical Research, Correspondence on, in Nature - - 14-15
Scientific American, Committee of the, in connection with the " Mar-
gery " mediumship 25-26
Scott, Sydney C, Services of, to the Society - - - - - 41
Scripts, The, of Cleophas. Review of - 394
Seance Room - - - 351
Seeing without eyes --------- 234-239
Seelen-prohleme, Notes on - - 101, 125, 140
Seiling, Professor Max, References to articles by - - 263-264, 298, 372-373
Index to Vol. XXIV. xxi
Selborne, Lord, Evidence contributed by ----- - 325
Seymour, St. John D., and Neligan, Harry L., True Irish Ghost Stories.
Review of 92
Sichler, Albert, References to articles by - - - - - 204, 205
Sidgwick, Sirs. Henry
—
Discu.ssion of the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper, References to
367, 368 (footnote)
On the Objects of the Society - - 30-32
]S"otes on periodicals ----- 223-224, 271-272, 314-315
Reviews 103, 164, 329-332
Signalling, Reference to system of, in Central Africa (in its bearing on
cases of alleged telepathy and clairvoyance among natives) - - 266
Silbert, Frau, On the mediumship of 27, 64, 123, 131, 133, 167, 206, 261, 263,
271, 295-296, 311, 338, 339, 370, 374
Simon, Matthias, Das Phdnomen von Konnersreuth im Lichte Evangelischen
Glauhens 400
Sinel, Joseph, The Sixth Sense. Review of - - - - 138, 255-256
Skwarzama Xowa, Alleged physical phenomena occurring at - - 313
Slade, Henry, References to mediumship of ... - 274, 406
Smith, William, Apparition of - - - 402
Smithson, Mrs. Edward, Obituary - 226-227
Soal, S. G.—
Co-optation as a Member of Coimcil ...... 351
Experiments in telepathy at a distance ... - 215, 316
Report on some Communications received through Mrs. Cooper,
Reference to discussion on ------- 14
Review of An Experiment with Time - - - - - - 119
" Some Automatic Scripts purporting to be inspired by a Victorian
Poet and XoveUst " - - - - - - - - 351
Society for Psychical Research
—
Accounts
—
Endo-RTnent Fund 43, 217
General Fund 42, 216
Articles of Association, Revision of 302-303
Committees, Elections on - - - - 35, 70, 225-226, 302-303
Council and OflScers, Elections and Co-optations
36-37, 50, 110, 212-213, 220, 226, 274-275, 318. 351
„ Meetings 18, 34, 49-50, 70, 78, 110-111, 130, 149-150, 185-186,
210-211, 225-226, 242, 274, 302, 318, 350-351
On the death of Mr. A^'. W. BaggaUy - - - - 242
„ Reports 37, 213
,, Resignations and deaths ------ 242, 318
Donations received - - - - - - - - 243,276
Financial Statements 36, 211-212
Legacies 227
Librarian, Hon., Appointment of ]Mr. Besterman - - 50, 51, 214
xxii hidex to Vol. XXIV.
Library Committee appointed 226
,, Grant from the Carnegie Trust - - - . . 214
„ Loan, on Magic and Witchcraft - - - - 114, 214
Reorganisation - - - 51, 70, 114-115, 150, 213-214
Committee appointed ------ 70
Donations received 243
Meetings
—
Annual General ----- 35, 150, 211, 257, 378
Conversaziones 41, 131
Extraordinary General 323, 370
General - - -
'
- - - - 41, 78, 274, 319
Private - 18, 41, 50, 111-112, 186, 275-276, 303, 319, 350, 351
Members and Associates, Honorary, Corresponding and Ordinary,
Elections of 18, 34, 49, 78, 110, 130, 149, 185, 210, 211, 221, 222,
225, 242, 274, 302, 318, 350
Objects of the Society - - - - 30-32
Presidency, Elections to 185, 210, 213
Proceedings and Journal in British Libraries - - . . 335
Sales of 41, 222
Requisition of a Special General Meeting 242, 275, 302, 323-324, 351
Research Officer, Appointment not renewed - - - 51, 70, 213
Seance Room, available for experiments - - . . . 351
Work of the Society, On the 113-114
Southcott, Joanna, Opening of box of - - - - 128, 183, 269
Spirit possession, Assumption of reality of, in treatment of mental
maladies 134, 223-224, 232-233, 347
Spiritual Exercises and their Results, by Aelfrida Tillyard - - - 240
Stephan, Dr. Richard, On the case of Theresa Neumann - - - 253
Stern, Dr. Erich, On the problem of fortuitous coincidence, Reference to 298
Stigmata, alleged. See Neumann, Theresa ; and Ziigun, Eleonore.
Stigmatisierte, Die, von Konnersreuth, by Dr. G. Ewald. Reference to - 251
Stigmatism and ideoplastics, Reference to - - - - - - 65
Stowell, E. A. C, Evidence contributed by - - - - 278, 279-280
Stowell, V. E., Account of an experience in fire-walking - 278-279, 280-281
Streatham, Enquiry into alleged disturbances at a house in - - 287
Subconsciousness, On the question of the creative powers of the - 178-180'
Siiddeutsche Monatshefte, Notes on 344
Sudre, Rene, Introduction a la lletapsychique Humaine. A propos of 107-108
„ References to articles by 27,65,126,128,136,147,183,268-269,
270-271, 294, 314, 316, 347, 375-376, 403
Summers, F. J., and Irving, Rev. W. S., Case investigated by - 352-357
Sunday Chronicle, Enquiry into the phenomena of spiritualism. Refer-
ence to -------- 15
,, ,, On the exposure of the medium Evans in - - 64
Siinner, Dr., References to articles by 143, 166, 204
Survey, A General, of Psychical Phenomena, by Helen C. Lambert - 399
Index to Vol. XXIV xxiii
Survival, Cases and references bearing on the question of
4-11, 70-73, 74-75, 151-152, 155-156, 164, 169-174, 177-178
182, 193-204, 243-247, 303-305, 332-334, 336-337, 398-399, 400
Swedenborg as a psychic. Reference to article on - . . . 102
Swinton, Campbell. See Nature : On Science and Psychical Research.
Sydenham, Lord, Evidence contributed by - - - - - - 325
Talpa poltergeist Case. See Ziigun.
Tanagra, Dr. Angelos, References to articles by - - - - 136, 143
Tartaruga, Dr. U., Election as Corresponding Member - - - 221
Telepathy, Experimental, A Contribution to, by G. H. Estabrooks - - 329
Telepathy, On the phenomena of 90-91, 136, 138, 259-260, 270, 289, 294,
300, 319-323, 342, 403-404
Telepathy and thought-transference. Spontaneous
1, 53, 115, 148, 260, 341, 379
Among primitive peoples. Reference to ... 126-127, 266
Telepathy and thought-transference. Experimental
—
Experiments based upon a supposed analogy between the emergence
of telepathic impressions and the recovery of a
memory 375-376
at a distance 84-85, 131-132, 135, 168, 207-208, 215, 316,
321-322, 392, 393, 402
Broadcast, in America - - - - - - 271
„ England - - - 78, 215, 392, 393
„ Germany ----- 392-394
between men and animals - 29, 101, 135, 338-339
References to, in current literature - - - 14, 134
Some questionable ------- 255
See also Thought-transference.
Teleplastic phenomena. On alleged ------- 29
TeUez, Dr. Lorenzo Torremocha, Experiments in clairvoyance. Refer-
ence to 405
Thiebault, J., Materialisation Seances at Mantes, References to
125-126, 264, 313-314, 344, 345
Thinkmg animals. On so-called - - - - 101, 135, 233, 269, 341
RoM 135, 341
Thirring, Professor Hans, Reference to article by, on Science in relation
to Psychical Research --------- 147
Thomas, Rev. C. Drayton, Case contributed by - - - - - 193
,, ,, ,, Life Beyond Death with Evidence. Review of 398
,, „ „ On an emanation seeming to be ^related to
the process of trance communication.
Reference to - - - - - - 134
Thompson, Mrs., Reference to the mediumship of - - - 364-365
xxiv Index to Vol. XXIV.
Thomson, Rev. H. Byerley, Hypnagogic experiences - - - 19, 20
Thought-Transference, Experiments in 50, 79
„ ,, (the " Margery " case)
346, 347, 348, 376, 403
See also Telepathy.
Thoiiless, Dr. Robert H., The Alleged Action of Nervous Effluence in
Hypnotism - - - - - - 18
Threapwood, Alleged haunt at - - ----- - 285
Thumbprints, Teleplasmic 403
See also " Margery " mediuraship.
Thurston, Rev. Herbert, S.J., Case contributed by - - - - 26
„ „ ,, On the Case of Theresa Neumann - - 247-249
,, ,, ,, Review of The Scripts of Cleophas - - - 394
,, ,, ,, The War and the Prophets, by. Reference to 162
Tibetan Book of the Dead, by W. Y. Evans-Wentz - - - - 164
Tillyard, Aelfrida, Spiritual Exercises and their Results - - - 240
Tillyard, Dr. R. J., References to articles by - - 45, 295, 348, 376
,, ,, Reference to Review by, of Sir A. Conan Doyle's
History of Spiritualism ----- 14
Tischner, Dr. Rudolf, Franz Anton Mesmer : Lehen, Werk und Wirkungen 292
„ „ References to articles by
64, 133, 165, 299, .338, 341, 344, 374
Trance Phenomena, References to articles on
64, 113, 134, 146, 206, 361-362, 403
„ „ Communications, Appearance of the living in,
Reference to - - - 30, 64
„ „ „ On errors and inconsistencies in 362-368
,, ,, On the rnodus operandi of 398, 399
Trethewy, A. W., Review of Life Beyond Death with Evidence - - 398
Tricks of famous mediums. Reference to article on - - - - 401
Trilles, Pere, Supernormal incidents connected with African peoples and
tribes, Reference to -------- 126-127
True Irish Ghost Stories, by St. John D. Seymour a^id Harry L. Neligan.
Review of ----------- 92
Tut-ankh-amen, The Curse of. References to article on - - 375, 403
Two Souls in One Body ? by Dr. H. H. Goddard - - - - 293
U
Unsere Welt, Notes on 344
Valiantine, George, On the mediumship of - - - - 111-112, 295
Vallee seances. Reference to exposure in regard to - - - - 346
van Biervliet, Professor J. J., La Psychologic d'aujourd'hui - - - 293
Index to Vol. XXIV. XXV
Verweyen, Professor J. M., Die Probleme des Mediumismus, hy.
Review of 261-262
„ References to articles by - 64, 134, 299, 312
Vesme, C. de, Histoire du Spiritualisme experimental - - - - 240
„ References to articles by 76, 126, 127, 128, 145, 168, 311, 345
Vianney. Jean. See Cure of Ars.
Vinton, ^Varren J., Experiences with W. and R. Schneider, References to
108, 204-205, 315
Visions in Christian practices, References to - - . - 240, 250
Vohn, Esfona 240
von Renter, Florizel, References to articles by - 231, 267, 315, 374, 375
von Renter, Frau, Reference to alleged mediumship of - - - 374
von Weisl, Dr. W., On Theresa Neumann 249
Vourvachis, Christos, Alleged poltergeist phenomena in the presence of.
Reference to 143-144
von Wrede, Herr V., Sittings with Mme. Ideler, References to - 125, 140
W
W., Nurse D., Evidence contributed by 97
Wales, Hubert, On the case of the Will of James L. Chafiin - 177-178
Walker, Dudley F., Case contributed by 379
Walker, Ikliss Nea, The Bridge. Reference to - - - 164, 362, 365
,, ,. Case contributed by - - - - - - 169
Walker, jNIrs., and Walker, iliss E. M., Case confirmed bj' - - - 383
Walter, Professor D., References to articles by 64, 165, 167, 339, 374, 406
Walther, Fraulein G., On Dr. Walter Prince's exposure of Rudi Schneider,
Reference to 340
War, The, and the Prophets, by Father Thurston, Reference to - - 162
WarcoUier, Rene, " L'accord Telepathique " - - 274, 319-323, 402
„ „ References to articles by - - - - 135, 148, 168
Warner, Dr. Howard, Case connected with - - - - - - 169
Warrick, F. W., On experiments with Mrs. Deane, Reference to - - 315
Wassilko, Countess. See Ziigun.
Watraszewski, Dr. K. de, On the Pohsh medium, Mle. Sabira 75-76, 142
Weber, Father, On Therese Neumann, Reference to - - - - 406
Weber, Karl. See Kraus, Karl.
Weltz, Dr. G. A., " Measuring of temperatures during mediumistic
seances," Reference to - - - - - - - - - 133
Wereide, Frau Sophie, Experiences related by. Reference to - - 405
Western Mysticism, by Dom Cuthbert. Butler . . - - 163-164
Where are the Dead ? A Symposium 400
Whispering, Involuntary, Experimental study of. References to - 46, 102
White, Mrs. Estelle, Reference to the mediumship of - - - - 315
" White Case " {The Bridge), References to - - 295, 297, 342, 362, 365
Why I Believe in Personal Immortality, by Sir OUver Lodge - - 332
xxvi Index to Vol. XXIV.
Whymant, Dr. Neville, " Some Valiantine Sittings and Oriental Voices
"
111-112, 295, 316
Wild, Charles R., On the mediumship of Mrs. Pruden, Reference to - 128
Wild, Miss Ida, Cases contributed by 1, 2
Willock, Mrs., Account of the fire walk _ - . . . 325-326
Wingfield, Miss C. E., Obituary Notice 113
„ A Report on Sittings with, in 1900-1901 - - 275
Winklhofer, Therese (supposed medium). Reference to - - - 309
Winther, Dr. Christian, Experiments with Anna Rasmussen, References
to ------- 126, 269-270, 271, 294, 316, 347
Winterstein, Baron A. v., References to articles by - - - 27, 123
Wissenden, Disturbances at 286
Wissenschaftlicher Okhultisnms, by Dr. August Messer. Review of 139-140
Woolley, Dr. V. J.—
Reply to Mr. Dingwall concerning the Annual General Meeting 257-258
" Report on the Recent B.B.C. Experiment in Telepathy " - - 78
Review of Dr. WiUiam Brown's Mind and Personality - - - 182
X
X., Mme., Reference to experiments in telepathy and clairvoyance with 135
Y
Y., Nadia, Reference to mediumship of 363-364
Y., Mr., Book-tests connected with - - - - - - 4, 5-11
,, „ Impressions concerning the house of - - - - - 4
Z., Senora Maria Reyes de. Psychometric medium - - " 146, 298, 309
Zagadnienia Metapsychiezne, Notes on - - 142, 233-234, 312-313
Zeitschrift fur Kritischen Okkultismus, Notes on
13-14, 46-47, 102, 124, 141-142, 165, 299-300, 307-309
Zeitschrift fur Para'psychologie, Notes on
14, 29, 75, 101-102, 123, 142-145, 165, 166, 204-206, 224, 231-233
266-267, 298-299, 308, 309-310, 338-341, 373-375, 405-406
Zeitschrift fur psychische Forschuyig [formerly Revalo Bund], Notes on
64, 74, 146, 167, 206-207, 263-264, 295-298, 311-312, 342-343,
372-373, 398, 404-405, 406-407
See also On Some " Critical " Methods.
Zeller, Dr. G., References to articles by - - - 166, 312, 339, 341
Zollner knots obtained with the medium Sambor - - - 262-263
Ziigun, Eleonore, References to articles and correspondence on
45, 60-63, 64-65, 66, 102, 123-124, 134, 165, 261, 266, 294, 299,
300, 310, 339
Zwieselbauer, Hilda, Reference to the mediumship of - - - - 405
