{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wendy_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Wendy M NDE 21822","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wendy M NDE 21822  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wendy M NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1637 Wendy M NDE 21822  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					No Experience given.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'June 24,2008'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' 'head injury fall of horse, concussion'  I fell off a horse and hit my head on concrete rocks.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Between this world and the spirit realm.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    A voice told me to hold on. It was spoke at first in its native tongue, and then translated into English. It was a man’s voice.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A spirit warrior was sitting with me. I saw myself wide awake while I was out of body.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     My senses are heightened now.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It was emotional and exciting.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     There was a feeling of it.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was lifting, going up and I looked down. The result is I’m sensitive to many things. I feel everything around with more alertness. Spiritual gifts I have were also increased due to this accident.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'faith, trust in creator'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have different attitudes toward people.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can sense more things now than before.  I feel connected to the other side with more feelings.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Waking up and feeling the pain in my head.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They got scared.  They said falling off the horse is much easier than going through what I went through.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wendy_m_nde.html