{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wendy_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Wendy C NDE 2897","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wendy C NDE 2897  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wendy C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1008  Wendy C NDE  2897  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I had been sick for about a week. Didn't go to the doctor because of work constraints. I went to the emergency room, and they took me immediately to surgery. I didn't know I was in surgery, I had been sedated. I 'woke up' during surgery, and said to myself, 'Oh, I guess my heart was bad.' But, I wondered why the doctor was at the other end of my body, not near my heart. There were two nurses next to him, and there was someone standing just behind my left shoulder; he was looking at some sort of gauge, and was talking sternly to the doctor. The doctor and nurses had very strange expressions on their faces, like they could see that I woke.

Immediately, I was moving toward the ceiling in a horizontal position. I thought of Wendy from the Peter Pan movie. I saw a white pipe that I tried to grab onto twice, but my transparent hand went right through it. And the ceiling had become the sky. I looked down at the operating table, and saw me there, but I was having a great time, and said to myself that I wanted to continue to float in the air.

The next thing I remember, I was coming up an escalator in the clouds, gray, compressed clouds. (Note: I have had several dreams about visiting heaven and I always got there by coming up an escalator in fluffy white clouds.)

It was almost as if I had been shot out of the escalator because I remember coming out very fast and then stopping very gently.

There was an incredibly long line of people that were cheering and clapping for me. And it made me feel so good! The type of life I had, especially my childhood, was anything but happy. My sister and my grandmother where the first in line. They were also very happy and joyous - these are words I would not have used to describe them on earth. At some point, I learned that all the people who had greeted me were people who had been affected by me, both good and bad (bad by my definition). There was even a man who almost looked like a cave man with a hairy outfit on.

I was taken to see the Father. We had to go through a very narrow corridor with very high cement (?) walls on either side. I don't recall too much what happened when I went to see the Father.

About the only other thing I can remember is what I call the Apricot Choir. These were monumental angels who were singing and they were robed in the most gorgeous apricot color imaginable. The robes shimmered with different colors and with gold.

I had a couple other experiences that I haven't told to anyone, and would like to keep them private. They were extremely strange, and were perhaps a result of the anesthetic.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'Aug 29, 1999'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Ruptured colon with peritonitis.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Hard to say. I don't remember too much about what happened with the Father, but I think that was the highest level of consciousness.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Hard to say. I don't remember too much about what happened with the Father, but I think that was the highest level of consciousness.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   No sense of time at all. No clear linear progression of events.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was legally blind at the time, mostly correct with glasses, but I could sense and feel a realness. The choir singing was incredible sounds, and the angels' robes glowed with magnificent color. A dark blue color is associated with the Father, and that color was alive and vivid and living.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I come from an extremely musically gifted family; however, I know nothing about music, partially deaf in one ear and couldn't sing in tune for anything. But the angel music, it was perfect. Millions of sounds interweaving and slowing in color.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     All I can remember is the top of the escalator in the clouds. I know it came up from somewhere, but not aware of the trip.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There was someone guiding me, at one point there were two someone's guiding me, but I don't remember much. They communicated with me, I think telepathically.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Yes, I think another planet--no other information on this.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love and joy and happiness and peace. And a feeling of being part of everyone and everything.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     The only thing I remember were all the people that I saw when I first got there had been affected by me. I learned that my difficult life was for a reason, and I should not have any guilt about it - I did my best.  I learned that some strange and highly unusual events in life would need to be researched when I got back to earth. Those events happened for a reason and that I would need those experiences for the future.  I learned to LOVE. I learned that events occurring on earth have a purpose, but not an obvious one, and we all need to seek out the purpose in life. Each person extends beyond their own body. Most of all, never act out of anger or revenge, but to love everyone, it is our main duty on earth.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        I don't know how I became or become aware of future events - they just start out as a subtle feeling about something, and the more I think about it the more things seem to happen or to come into existence.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholic (lapsed)  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Being raised in a very strict Catholic environment, I thought the church had the first and last word on everything religious. I had been a lapsed Catholic and returned to the church after my experience. I went to daily mass for almost six years, and one day it all fell apart. For me, organized religion is not the way to fulfilling God's plan.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'Still believe Catholic dogma, but many questions about organized religion'  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Being raised in a very strict Catholic environment, I thought the church had the first and last word on everything religious. I had been a lapsed Catholic and returned to the church after my experience. I went to daily mass for almost six years, and one day it all fell apart. For me, organized religion is not the way to fulfilling God's plan.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I don't know how to describe it. I get extremely frustrated when I try to tell others about life, but I can't really describe it. My words are clichΘs.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I don't feel as if I belong here. I can't relate to people the same way. I recently had a consulting contract terminated because I couldn't keep quiet about some injustices going on. I had to report it. Even though I spoke the truth, I was made out to be the bad guy. I don't fit in.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I did not experience time as I know it on earth. I can report events that happened during NDE, but don't always make sense to me.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I could plainly hear what people were thinking. Initially, it scared the heck out of me. I've learned to control it most of the time.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        LOVE. If everyone could truly embrace that. We are not alone or lonely individuals, we are part of a tremendous experience.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I didn't initiate it. People started asking me when I told them I had been clinically dead during surgery (the second event my doctor was about to pronounce me dead) if I had experienced anything. At first I said 'no' because the events just seemed like part of my life. The people who have asked were just interested in knowing I guess because of the novelty, they didn't know that there was so much more to it that it was life-changing for me.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   In college, one of my majors was Psychology, and from that standpoint I was interested how people dealt with it. In my own mind prior to my own experience, I thought it was a religious experience. I don't think prior knowledge affected my experience because mine seemed so completely out of sync with what I had read about NDE's.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     My awareness of my experience was of visiting the Father. I kept telling the medical staff in the hospital, that I talked to my Father. I think they just thought that I had too much anesthetic. I was a different person. A tremendous sense of peace just emanated from me. A sense of gentleness and love overwhelmed me.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was more real than life as I know it. I find it incredibly easy to forgive people who have injured me currently, or in the past. I try not to judge anyone. There is so much going on that we don't know about. We need to accept everyone and love them.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   My entire life has been filled with unusual events, including the NDE. Are they related? I don't know. But I seem to have found a way of coping with them and living my life.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Life is hard. No one should be afraid to leave it. But live your life the best you can, not with you at the center of the universe, but as a most necessary and integral part of it. You are very unique and most important.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Considering the scope, I think this is very good.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wendy_c_nde.html