{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wayne_r_nde_3066.html","mytitle":"Wayne R NDE 3066","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wayne R NDE 3066  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wayne R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1098  Wayne R NDE  3066  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was traveling home from work in the fog in a car driven by my workmate Mark. I was sitting in the back seat of the car without a seatbelt when a car appeared out of the fog and struck us head on. I was thrown violently through the car and impacted the door which burst open and I landed on the road face down. It all happened in slow motion and I do not remember any pain at the time. I remember feeling the ice cold stones on the road sticking to my face and I remember just standing up and immediately thinking what a wonderful feeling of no cold air and the temperature was exactly the same as my body. I remember looking down because I couldn't feel the road below my feet and yet I was standing there. I looked at the body face down and did not know that it was me. I had no fear and concern about this person and yet I was starting to wonder what was going on as people were running around a car accident. I tried to ask a person if there was anyone hurt and they ignored me. They placed a blanket completely over the body on the road. I remember wondering why I had a droopy sort of monk shirt on. As I walked forward, I moved through the car body in front of me. I wondered that something was very peculiar about what I had just done but could not put my finger on it.

I then felt a magnetic drawing on my face and had no power to stop it dragging me into the body under the blanket. I felt sudden pain, as the road stuck to my bleeding face was so cold. I again stood up and this time asked about the person under the blanket. Again, no one was seeing or hearing me and I was now becoming frightened. I walked without feeling the road over to the person lying in the grass at the side of the road. It was Mark and I was asking if he was all right? I looked around and saw the Morris' steering wheel lying down the embankment.

A voice from my next door neighbor who was still alive at the time was in my right ear. He said do not look at the light. I could feel what I thought was the sun behind me but knew instinctively not to look at it. The pull of the light was great and at that time, the same old magnetic pull on my face and upper body was throwing me back into the person under the blanket. Again, the pain and cold from the reality of the road and this time I heard a voice saying, 'He's not dead take the blanket off him.' I was put into the ambulance and after a couple of days, I was considered medically all okay but very bruised. I saw Mark in hospital and we talked about what had happened. He said that they cleaned up the wreck but could not find the steering wheel that he had ripped off on impact. I told him where it was lying and he laughed saying that he heard that I was thought to be dead and covered up. I then told him my story and later we went back to the crash site and I went straight to the place where the steering wheel was. It was there.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1985

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death .  The event in itself that allowed the NDE was life threatening.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The first time I left my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      The first time I left my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Everything was slowed slightly.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    It seemed that I was more in tune with the inner voice we hear every day and that this voice was guiding me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Felt its presence.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Incredible comfort and peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Uniting Church

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I know there is a God. I know that I am on this earth to develop and return with a better understanding of love.

What is your religion now?      Liberal   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I know there is a God. I know that I am on this earth to develop and return with a better understanding of love.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The power of the light and that somehow I had been in this situation before.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I work harder at relationships.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Many wonderful connections with my wife who passed over and other events.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Traveling through material objects and the incredible temperature and floating feeling.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    It seems that I am always in situations with people who share the same experiences. This is uncanny.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I became more elated and withholding of the event as I realized what had actually happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     As I seek answers I am more reminded of what actually happens during death and have had this happen to me many times in the past. I know of things that are embedded in my deep consciousness and that are slowly being released.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wayne_r_nde_3066.html