{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wanda_s_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Wanda S Possible NDE 7262","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wanda S Possible NDE 7262  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wanda S Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3698 Wanda S Possible NDE 7262  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On January 3, 2009 in the early afternoon I began feeling gaseousness in my stomach. I popped some sort of medication and proceeded to my part-time job as a waitress as I was still in school. The pain increased. It was the worst pain I had ever felt; still to this day. I requested I be sent home from work and I drove home and began vomiting.  I called my husband and proceeded to the emergency room with him. I was treated poorly at the hospital. They gave me a shot of morphine, told the pain would subside, and sent home. 

After a week of being stuck at home, I returned to work thinking I just needed to get moving again. Once at work, the pain began to centralize.  After completing my shift, I proceeded to a different emergency room where I was told I no longer had an appendix.  After a very, very long period of time, I was sent to the operating room. The bile had backed up into my system and gangrene had taken over my colon and intestines. 

While unconscious, or more to the point briefly dead, I had the experience of images of my past appearing to me briefly. It was a montage. They were familiar yet distant. They were not memories that are available for me to recollect. I do not understand the importance of those images or even if they are important. The best way to describe them is if you are familiar with the Harry Potter franchise, they were similar to the moving photographs. 

The last image is the only one I can recall and have spoken of. It was a brief fast forward and it was of my husband and me on a front porch with us surrounding a young boy. I knew it was our son. The house is not familiar to me as of yet.  I had a feeling that everything was going to be okay. I saw my son before he was born. My last image was my husband and I kneeling down surrounding a boy about five on a front porch with white railing.  I had such an overwhelming feeling of love, understandings that love was the most important thing and I was at peace. 

I awoke from surgery in some sort of waiting room where I asked two attendants what had happened to me and they told me to lie back down that I would remember none of what was transpiring. The next time I awoke, I was in my hospital room and after about a week on morphine, I began to hallucinate fuzzy spiders and marching hot pink ovals. My rapid recovery surprised my doctors and I was released early. I did a follow up visit to my primary care physician where I inquired about my mind not being able to function the way it once did. I was brushed off. My thought process is not the same. It is hard to describe but it often feels like a fog. Almost to the day, a year later, I found out I was pregnant.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  01/10/2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Surgery-related.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had appendicitis.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't know, I was in surgery and unconscious.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was in surgery and unconscious.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I was in surgery and unconscious.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt love and at peace with everything and everyone. It was so beautiful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     Love is the most important thing.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I saw my son before he was born. My last image was my husband and I kneeling down surrounding a boy of about five on a front porch with white railing. I knew everything would be okay. Almost to the day, a year later, I found out I was pregnant. My child greatly resembles the boy in my image. The house is unknown to me.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am trying to understand ancient beliefs and practices, those more pagan.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       No comment

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I don't feel the question applies to my experience.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     I felt connected to everything and loved.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Love.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Love is all that matters.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       Unknown     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     It was so beatiful the enormous feeling of love. There was no pain or worrying. Only peace and love.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I do not like the way your survey discusses 'God'. I was raised protestant but never identified with it. I believe in energy and something greater than us but do not necessarily believe in how we define 'God'. I think mankind is very arrogant and juvenile to believe we were made in its image. I also do not fear death but am fearful of my child not having his mother.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I am more committed to family.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time   It is becoming more distant and it saddens me that I can not remember more. I am trying to find a way to connect with what happened. I would like to experiment with DMT.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole thing was meaningful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have always had an interest in the supernatural.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   The birth of my son solidified my experience. I am just trying to understand it more.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wanda_s_possible_nde.html