{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wanetta_l_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Wanetta L Probable NDE 7132","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wanetta L Probable NDE 7132  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wanetta L Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3604 Wanetta L Probable NDE 7132  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was alone in a row boat that was attached to the pier.  The water was only about 4 feet deep.  I was not supposed to be in the boat or on the water alone.   To get out, I stepped on the lip of the boat.  It tilted toward the pier.  As my body rocked forward, I slammed my head against the pier and fell into the lake.  I could not swim.  I remember being underwater.  How long?  I don't know. Minutes?  It was long enough to drown.  

I was confused, but not afraid. I remember thrashing my arms and legs and as I looked up, I saw two things.  I saw sunlight, at least that is what I think it was, and I saw a lady's arm reaching down towards me. It was a white arm encased in a shimmering sleeve.  

The next thing I remember is that I was on top of the pier with a big lump on my head.  As I felt the lump and my soaking wet body, I finally cried and ran up to the cabin where my family was.   No one was there to witness what happened.  I believe to this day it was my guardian angel who saved my life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  summer of 1953

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I hit my head against the pier.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The arm I saw was not mine, I did not see a body and when I was on top of the pier, there was no one in sight.  No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I didn't know exactly that I was drowning but I knew I was helpless on my own with no one around to help me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the water.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I couldn't tell exactly how long I was under water.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was under water but my eyes were open so I saw the arm reach down to me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was silent except for the bubbles I made waving my arms and legs.   I must have held my breath.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   It may have been sunlight, but it could have been heavenly light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I wasn't afraid, but I was aware I needed help.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   a normal little girl who enjoyed going to Sunday School  and singing  hymns

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     God became real to me for the first time. I understood later what is meant by 'a guardian angel' and knew I had one for sure.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   I am a very devout Christian, lay servant, mission volunteer, hospice volunteer

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     It did not surprise me that I had a guardian angle who  was sent by God to save me

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I knew God was watching over me.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   An unexplained arm came down to me.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I knew for certain that I had a guardian angel-first and only time I encountered it

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     God is with me all the time and sent an angel to save me

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I was certain my 'savior" came directly from God

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably existsÂ

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Life is uncertain-it is easy to be in danger of dying-God is love and He is always with me

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life. The experience I had as a 5 year old helped me to be more trusting of God's interest in me personally.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I never forgot the experience-I can recall it completely in my mind today

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Only that it was a spiritual miracle.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    For as long as I can remember when NDE comes up, I talk about the one I had.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I could repeat exactly what happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I should have drowned, but I didn't.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   But I've never been afraid of the water or drowning. I learned how to swim but I'm not the strongest swimmer. I love the water and feel very comfortable in it.  It's my main source of exercise.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The questionnaire was very thorough, and as a hospice volunteer I am very comfortable around people who are near the end of their lives.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wanetta_l_probable_nde.html