{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wayne_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Wayne J NDE 728","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wayne J NDE 728  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wayne J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						257  Wayne J NDE  728  					  				      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was experiencing a bout of pneumonia as a five year old. What I remember first was waking up and looking down at myself in the bottom bunk of my bunk bed. At the time, I thought it was not unusual. I more or less hovered there facing my body knowing full well whose body it was. After a time I remember slowly rising in the air and as my height increased saw my brother in the top bunk sleeping soundly and my baby brother in the crib nearby who was also sleeping peacefully. I then rose to the ceiling and through it noticing the rafters in the attic as I rose. The house was single story. As I left the house behind me, I turned over and pointed toward the sky without any effort on my part.


I felt like I was being propelled by some force towards the heavens and still felt like it was perfectly normal. The next thing I remember was passing near the moon and wondering why it wasn't a flat disk. I could easily see that it was a globe, with many craters. This was really strange to me later in life because I had no way of knowing this at five years of age in 1957. Next, I started to travel outwards in the solar system at an extreme rate of speed. The next thing I knew I was sitting up in my bed soaking wet calling for my mother. Looking back at it now, it took me years before I could make any sense of what had happened to me, it was more real than reality!

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1957

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Illness  pneumonia  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening pneumoniaNot sure, I was having a high fever.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could see nothing of myself but could see everything around me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Extremely alert and wide awake if that makes any sense.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Distance seemed to mean nothing.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    No noises at all.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The moon, solar system.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I knew the moon was a globe instead of a round light in the sky, and also found out that there where angled boards in the attic. One thing I remember was a very strong sense of self awareness.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   Very easy actually.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I've seen strange things in the sky, unexplainable.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       It was all ok to my five year old mind. It felt perfectly normal.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Mostly I was told it was my imagination.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wayne_j_nde.html