{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wayne_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Wayne R NDE 2256","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wayne R NDE 2256  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wayne R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						645  Wayne R NDE  2256  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was very sick with bleeding ulcers. My medical insurance had expired and I was at home for several days trying to rest and hope everything would heal on its own. I have had bleeding ulcers since I was a child, have had several attacks through the years, and know pretty much what to expect. I knew this attack was pretty bad.

On January 5, I woke up with a severe headache and knew my blood pressure was very high. Mid-morning I realized I was very sick and telephoned a close friend to ask them to come to my home. I remember thinking, 'This is the last phone call I'll ever make.' I was very calm and decided to get into the empty bathtub so I wouldn't bleed all over the carpets and make a mess. By this time, I was bleeding through my ears and was bleeding heavily everywhere.

I woke up in a warm, bright place and was confused as to where I was. It took a minute and I remember thinking, 'Wow, I must be dead.' There was no pain. I could see myself; it wasn't like a spirit kind of thing. I looked up and my grandmother was there. She had died long ago (I think in 1967 or 1968), but it was her! She was wearing a purple dress and I suddenly remembered seeing her in her coffin as a kid wearing that dress. There was a Boston terrier dog standing beside her. We had always had Boston Terriers as pets when I was a kid but I didn't recognize this particular dog. I asked her where my mom and dad were (they had both passed away) but she looked at me and said, 'You can't stay - you have to go back now.' I said, 'No, I don't want to leave,' and she said, 'I promise, next time you can stay. You can stay the third time.'

Then I woke up in the hospital. It was very confusing for a couple of minutes and the doctor told me my friend had called 911 after I phoned him and they found me in the bathtub with no pulse. Luckily, I was found in time. I spent two weeks in the hospital and have been in decent health since - although I still have bleeding ulcers.

As a side-note, I went through a big box of old family photos and I found the dog with my grandmother. Her name was Trixie and she was our household pet when I was born in 1956. I don't remember her though as she was put to sleep around 1958. It was definitely, absolutely Trixie with my grandma.

I can't really describe the TONE of the conversation. She meant so much more than what she said. I seemed to understand more than what she said.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 January 5, 1998  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Everything seemed brighter, more THERE. I seemed more alert somehow. I seemed to understand not just the words but the tone of her conversation.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From start to finish. I remember everything.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   There didn't seem to be a sense of time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I was standing in a white place - but not like standing in the clouds. Everything around me was just a brilliant white.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion, then relief, then happiness. Then disappointment when I had to come back here.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Nobody told me but I felt I knew what life was all about, and what I was all about, and why I was here. I DO know that somehow, someway we do go on. I'm not sure where or how but it isn't bad.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am still a high-strung, demanding, quick witted person. However, I am a lot more patient and tolerant of other people. I tend to argue a lot less and accept other people for what they are. I seem to WANT to treat people better.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I can't describe the overall feeling I was left with; it's too complex for words.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I still wonder why my grandmother was there and not my parents. Why that particular dog? I feel like I had a great chance to learn something and I missed it. What were they trying to tell me?  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   When I was three years old, I 'drowned' in a public swimming pool in Fall River, Massachusetts, USA. My grandfather had to run into the pool fully clothed to pull me out. A lifeguard got me back. It was always a family story about my drowning and how they almost lost me. I don't really remember it except for tiny pieces and parts. My grandfather old me I had no pulse when they pulled me out.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It WAS real, no question. It bothers me to talk about it because it seems very personal and I tarnish it every time I talk about it. I do think about it every day though.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See above.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was real and it did happen. It wasn't drug induced or anything. It wasn't my imagination. It was real. It was such a strong experience it's always in the back of my mind. I feel lucky to have had this experience.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wayne_r_nde.html