{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wanda_t_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Wanda T NDE 6944","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wanda T NDE 6944  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wanda T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3487 Wanda T NDE 6944  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My 10 year old daughter was staying home with me due to my illness. She was watching TV while I rested on the sofa. I left my body and looked down at the room from the ceiling. I then passed through the ceiling into the attic and then through the roof. I remember seeing the nails pass me. Outside I saw our cows in the field around the house. I knew each one and where it was. My travel then got faster and I traveled a long way. I entered a very light room where there were other being of very bright light.  It was bright but it did not hurt my eyes like it would here on Earth. They were distinct personalities. I felt comfortable. They showed me past events of my life and future events. I felt the emotions of others and myself. I understood our reasons for our actions and the emotions of all involved. I felt all mercy, love and understanding. I saw the effect of my death on my daughter and her future if I returned. One of the entities asked me if I was willing to return. I said 'Yes, but…'  I never got to finish. I really did not want to leave this wonderful place. I felt myself traveling very quickly. I slammed back into my body with a big jolt. It took one second to feel the pain and atmospheric pressure return to my body, all surfaces upon which felt were weighed down by heavy chains.  It was horrible to be back but I thought that someday I would understand why I was returned.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1995

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes.      Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   I was bleeding due to a uterine disorder.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Nothing could be verified. I saw my daughter, how, and where she was sitting. I saw the attic, roof and cattle in the field.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I had been in terrible pain for a long time so there was no life for me except pain. It was like living in the dark and separated from everything and everyone.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was alert during the whole experience. I had been in terrible pain for a long time so there was no life for me except pain. It was like living in the dark and being separated from everything and everyone.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see the light and I understood. It was like seeing with the mind since there were no earthly eyes.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Again, it was understanding. Words were said but not heard with ears. They were heard with understanding.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I felt the darkness around and then the light at the location where I went.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was light, but not as we experience it on Earth. There was light all around and the people were light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Yes, it was clearly not of this realm.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, sorrow during the scenes of my life, understanding, mercy, love given and received.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I saw the effect on my daughter if I did not return. I wanted to help her but did not want to leave.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Just can't act the church behavior.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was surprised.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Nothing will ever be the same. I was changed. I have more understanding and know that there is so much more to understand.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   There were three entities there. They spoke through understanding. It was very pleasant.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Oneness exists

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     There is complete understanding there. God is all-knowing, in His presence we also have understanding, love, mercy...

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Having the experience gave me special knowledge.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     We are to learn, improve ourselves to live in communion with God's plan.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I felt my experience and the location of where I was is entirely real.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     It is so wonderful there--like going home. We do not want to return but we still care about those we love here. We are just waiting for our loved ones to join us.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Things happen but in the overall, time is only experienced on Earth. In the other realm our time here is but a speck.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is freely expressed and understood.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. Earthly worship is limited and man-made in many ways. We have a limited understanding and so many man created beliefs.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes Family members think I lie, or I am crazy or just don't care.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no words for the light, the feeling of the travel, the entities and the re-entrance into my body.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember each detail even though I was not allowed to speak of it to any of my family members and it has been so many years. My memory has not changed or varied in any way.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of the experience was significant.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my husband soon after, but he would not respond and later said that he thought I was crazy. I traveled for my job the next five years and had the opportunity several times of sitting next to people on the planes who were going to or coming from a family death. I shared my experience and was told and felt this was a great comfort.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     No doubt

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     No doubt

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wanda_t_probable_nde.html