{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1waylan_nde.html","mytitle":"Waylan NDE 737","mylang":"de"}
          	        Waylan NDE 737  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Waylan NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						217  Waylan NDE  737  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My experience was in 1987 after my first open heart surgery which had been lengthy.  It was after recovery and now I'm back in a room and I'm dying.  I'm aware those caring for me know I'm dying and they cannot understand why.  I was doing some serious praying because of this.  I was not aware of any movement, such as going through a tunnel.


Instantly, I was in the presence of God and I was hearing that I was not to fear as I was all right, instantly all fear was gone and I knew that I was all right.  I do remember many other people being there, some I recognized and some not although I was aware that I knew them all.  It is impossible to explain the love God has for us.  No one would ever voluntarily leave God.  I ache to return.


Then a female preacher, whom I had met once about a year before, stepped forward and our task was to pray with and for specific people in different areas of Baylor Hospital in Dallas where I was located.  We went to these people through space, walls and closed doors.  I could not tell that I was out of my body.  Everything looked and felt normal.  I remember thinking that this must be the same kind of body that Jesus was in after coming out of the tomb.  He went through walls, yet ate and drank, was seen and was felt by his companions.  I do not know how much time was involved.


When I returned to my bed, they were giving me blood and I was told that the machine processing it during surgery had damaged my blood.  I intended to check to see if the female preacher had died, but I never did.  Maybe she could have been there and been alive.  For years after this experience, I could not tell this story without crying like a baby because I would remember the feeling of God's love. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    June 1987

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related     explained 2 25 03See above.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I thought that I was in my normal body although I could see my body on the bed.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Normal.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     With God with the exception of the one woman who traveled with me.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     Everything appeared normal except all attention was toward God from everyone.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     At that time I was dumbfounded that I understood everything.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I understood everything and about our future which now I cannot remember.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     But I cannot remember.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I did not wish to return.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     No fear.  Everything is positive.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings


After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Only the part about the intensity of God's love.  That is indescribable.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I am much more aware of other people's actions and intent.  And what they are going to do.  I read people easily.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Being in God's presence.  The worst was having to return.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Good to uninterested.  I am told who to tell and then I do.  I told an elderly man at a restaurant that burst into tears and thanked me telling me how badly he had needed to hear of God's love.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I think it possible that I am alive only because I am intended to tell some people of God's love.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1waylan_nde.html