{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V27 1931-32","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v27_1931-32.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V27 1931-32","mylang":"de"}
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOL. XXVII
1931-1932
For Private Circulation among Members
and Associates only
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.i
All rights reserved
CONTENTS
PA8E
Impression received at the Time of a Friend's Death - 3
A Premonition - -- -- -- --18
Annual Report of the Council for the Year 1930 20
Apparition of a Relative seen at the Time of her Death - 34
Annual General Meeting - - - - - - 52
A Notable Booktest obtained at a Sitting with Mrs Leonard ;
by Theodore Besterman ------ 59
A Series of Mediumistic Statements made to Four Sitters - 74
Poltergeists ;
by W. H. Salter - - - - - - 91
A Case of apparent Haunting in Moscow ;
by Count
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo ------ 95
The Medium Frau Silbert ;
by Rudolf Lambert - 112
Two Incidents - -- -- -- -- 126
Towards a Theory of Dowsing :
I. Introduction ;
by Theodore Besterman - - - 142
II. The Art of the Dowser ;
by Vicomte Henry de
France -------- 143
III. Dowsing as a Physico-Physiological Phenomenon ;
by Graf Carl von Klinckowstroem - - - 147
IV. Reply to Graf von Klinckowstroem ;
by Vicomte
Henry de France ------ 152
V. Reply to Vicomte de France ;
by Graf Carl von
Klinckowstroem - - - - - -155
VI. The Psychical and Physical Theories of Dowsing ;
by Theodore Besterman - - - - - 157
The Lourdes Cures - -- -- -- - 165
Ancient or Unknown Controls ;
by A. W. Trethewy - - 178
A Prophecy in Old Moore's Almanack ;
by Theodore Bester-
man - - - - - - - - - - 182
24851.9
iv Cements
PAGE
Annual Report of the Council for the Year 1931 195
Supernormal Occurrences' in Classical Antiquity ;
by Prof.
E. R. Dodds - - 216
Annual General Meeting - - - 234
An Experiment in Long-Distance Telepathy ;
by Theodore
Besterman - - ------ 235
A Sitting with Bert Reese ;
by Dr Walter Franklin Prince - 249
The Relation between Parapsychical and Paraphysical
Phenomena ;
by W. H. Salter - - 268
The Society's Jubilee 1882-1932 - - 280
More alleged Occurrences of the Rope-Trick ;
by the Hon.
Everard Feilding - - 281
On a Sitting with Rudi Schneider ;
by Dr William Brown - 286
Case of Haunting at Ramsbury, Wilts. - 297
Some Neglected Types of Evidence in Psychical Research ;
by
Father H. Thurston - - 321
Hallucinatory Impression of a Relative's Death - - 326
Apparition nearly coinciding with a Friend's Death - - 337
Prehminary Notes on the Trance Mediumship of Fru Ingeborg
Kober (nee Dahl) ;
by Theodore Besterman - - - 338
New Members 33, 50, 90, 106, 162, 194, 232,
249, 266, 296, 320, 336
Meetings of the Council - 1, 17, 33, 50, 90, 106, 162, 194, 232,
249, 266, 296, 320, 336
Meetings of the Society 1, 33, 53, 90, 107, 163, 178, 216,
234, 235, 267, 280, 320, 336
Obituaries - - 74, 322
Correspondence -
4, 37, 97, 109, 130, 167, 184, 205, 222,
236, 254, 275, 290, 304, 327, 345
Reviews 7, 30, 38, 84, 118, 139, 168, 185,
225, 243, 257, 310, 329, 346
Notes on Periodicals - 10, 32, 42, 69, 102, 123, 171, 191, 227, 246,
261, 278, 279, 293, 314, 332, 349
Notices 1, 16, 34, 48, 49, 73, 74, 88, 89, 90, 104, 105, 108, 125, 126,
140, 141, 161, 176, 177, 193, 195, 214, 215, 230, 231,
233, 247, 248, 263, 264, 265, 280, 295, 319, 334, 335
Errata 124, 246, 350
No. 471.—Vol. XXVII. January 1931
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 276th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.I, on Thursday, 11 December 1930, at 5 p.m., Sir
Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the chair. There were also present :
Mr W. R. Bousfield, K.C., Miss Ina Jephson, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs
W. H. Salter, Dr F. C. S. Schiller and Dr V. J. Woolley ; also Mr
Theodore Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct.
It was decided to hold the Annual General Meeting at 3.30 p.m.
on Friday, 26 February 1931.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 177th General Meeting of the Society was held at Friends House,
Euston Road, London, N.W.I, on Wednesday, 26 November 1930,
at 6 p.m., Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the chair.
Miss Ina Jephson read a Report on " Further Experiments in
Card-guessing, with a more Evidential Technique." Miss Jephson
gave a summary of the experiments recently conducted by Mr Soal,
Mr Besterman and herself, reports of which will, it is hoped, appear
shortly in Proceedings. An interesting discussion followed.
NOTICE.
Members will have observed that the Index and Titlepage of the
volume of the Journal just completed were issued to all members
with the December number, instead of to those only who purchased
binding-cases, as heretofore. This departure will, it is hoped,
encourage more members to bind and preserve their Journals for
future use and reference. Complete sets of the Society's publications
are now very difficult to form and this will become more and more
2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1931
difficult as time passes. It is therefore in their own interests that
members are advised to preserve their copies.
Binding-cases for vols, xxv and xxvi (which are treated for this
purpose as a single volume) can be supplied for Is. 6d. Alternatively,
members can send in their sets of the Journal for the two years (1929
and 1930) and have them bound by the Society's binders for 4s. 0d.,
which includes the cost of the binding-case. Missing numbers of the
Journal for recent years can be supplied for 9d. each. Orders should
be accompanied by remittances, and should be addressed to the
Secretary.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE ATHENS CONGRESS.
The Transactions of the Athens Congress are now published, and can
be supplied for 7s. 6d., on application to the Secretary.
In addition to a Diary of the Congress, in which are included
several addresses by Dr Tanagra, Dr Driesch and Sir Oliver Lodge,
the volume contains the following papers :
Personne et Suprapersonne, par Hans Driesch, Professeur a
l'Universite de Leipsic.
Das psychophysische Problem vom parapsychologischen und vom
phanomenologischen Standpunkt aus, von T. K. Oesterreich,
Professor an der Universitat Tubingen.
Das psychophysische Energiefeld als Trager des sinnlichen und
ubersinnlichen Erlebens, von Karl Camillo Schneider, Pro-
fessor an der Universitat Wien.
Le Medium Frieda Weissl, par le docteur Baron von Winterstein,
President de la S.R.P. Autrichienne.
Le Dessin Mediumnique, par Prosper de Szmurlo, President de la
Societe Psycho-Physique de Varsovie.
La Telepathie de la Memoire Latente, par le Dr A. Tanagra,
President de la S.R.P. Hellenique.
La Suggestibilite des Hysteriques en Grece, par le Dr Milt. Vlastos.
Parapsychologisches bei Geisteskranken, von Dr K. Konstan-
tinides.
Some Suggestions for the Improvement of the Conditions of
Investigation of Controllable Phenomena, by W. H. Salter,
Hon. Treasurer and Joint Hon. Secretary of the Society for
Psychical Research.
On the Reasons for the non-Recognition of Psychical Research by
the Majority of the Scientific World, by Sir Oliver Lodge.
The Trance Phenomena of Mrs Ingeborg, by Th. Wereide,
Professor at the University of Oslo.
January 1931 Transactions of the Athens Congress
A Critical Estimate of the Present Status of Psychical Research,
by Theodore Besterman, Librarian and Editor of the Society
for Psychical Research.
The Case of the Abbe Vachere, by the Hon. Everard Feilding.
Das verkehrte Bild in der Telepathie, von Sanitatsrat Dr G.
Pagenstecher.
Das Verhaltnis des Israelitischen Prophetismus zu den Problemen
der Bewusstseinsspaltung, von T. K. Oesterreich, Professor
an der Universitat Tubingen.
TJber Spiritismus, von Dr Johannes Hohlenberg.
Eine neue Forschungsmethode in der Parapsychologie, von Pro-
fessor Daniel Walter.
Zwecksetzung und Zielstrebigkeit in der Biologie und Parabiologie,
von Prof. Ing. V. Mikuska.
Un Cas de Connaissance Paranormale, par Zoe Comtesse Wassilko-
Serecki, Secretaire honoraire de la S.R.P. Autrichienne.
Un Cas de Levitation chez les Derviches, par Carl Vett, Secretaire
honoraire du Comite international des Congres pour recherches
psychiques.
Der Kampf um Valiantine, von Dr Walther Kroner.
Recent and Current Investigations undertaken by the Society for
Psychical Research, by Theodore Besterman, Librarian and
Editor of the Society for Psychical Research.
Les Mediums Telekinetiques en Grece, par le Dr A. Tanagra,
President de la S.R.P. Hellenique.
Meine Dreijahrigen Untersuchungen mit dem Breslauer Medium
Frau S., von Dr T. Kindborg.
Telepathische Experimente zwischen Athen, Paris, Warschau und
Wien, von Dr K. Konstaninides.
CASE.
L. 1294.
Impression received at the Time of a Friend's Death.
The following case has been contributed by a friend of Mrs Salter,
known to readers of the Journal as Miss Ann Jones. Miss Jones has
had other apparently supernormal experiences, which will be found
recorded in the Journal (1912), xv. 337-9, 339-42 (on which cp. xvi.
14-5) ; (1913), xvi. 51-6 (cp. xvi. 78-9) ; (1914), xvi. 306-10 (cp. xxi.
117-8) ; (1924), 350-2. Several of these cases are discussed by Mrs
Sidgwick in her supplementary examination of " Phantasms of the
Living/'' Proceedings (1922), xxxiii. 317-8, 330-1, 352-3.
4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research januaey 1931
Miss Jones's, account of her experiences, which is dated 13 July
1930, is as follows :
"Death of Camille Vidart.
" On the morning of Saturday June 28th I was unable to get to
work as usual because of a sense of disturbance and of a death of some
importance. It seemed to me that some public person was dying. I
knew that the death did not concern my husband who was away in
Kent at the time. Towards noon the feeling became so insistent that
I called my housemaid Dorothy Holtby out on to the roof where I
was trying to write and told her to make a note of the day and of my
premonition.
" On July 9th I received a copy of Le Journal de Geneve with the
announcement of Camille Vidart 's death.
" She was my godmother and a person well known as a linguist and
a feminist in Europe and America. I had not heard that she was ill
nor had we exchanged any letters since our Christmas greetings. I
saw her last in the spring of 1928 when she visited me in London.
[Signed, Ann Jones]
"
With this statement was enclosed the housemaid's corroboration.
" On Saturday morning, June 28th [Miss Ann Jones] called me
on to the roof of her flat in Hatfield, Hertfordshire, and said that she
had a feeling, that something rather sad was happening, but that it
was entirely out of England, and did not concern any of her close
relatives.
[Signed] Dorothy Gertrude Holtby."
Miss Jones also sent a cutting from Le Journal de Geneve announc-
ing the death of Mademoiselle Camille Vidart on 28 June. The
notices " de faire part " include three from Societies in Geneva, thus
corroborating Miss Jones' s impression that the person who had died
was of some public importance.
CORRESPONDENCE.
On a Series of Sittings.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—I have read with much interest Mr Irving's comments (in.
Proceedings, xxxix. 333 ff.) on my report on the Warren Elliott
sittings and cannot but help feeling somewhat gratified that he has
found so little matter for criticism. Mr Irving's personal experience
of sittings with various mediums is far wider than my own and it was
only to be expected that from that experience he would be able to
modify and correct some of the impressions which I derived from the
study of my narrower material.
January 1931 Correspondence 5
I was bound by the facts actually before me and I endeavoured to
make it clear by the language which I used that any judgments
which I passed and any suggestions which I made were based solely
on the evidence of those facts. In one or two places in the report I
specifically referred to the possibility of evidence from other sources
modifying the conclusions at which I had tentatively arrived.
I am glad to see, therefore, that the modifications which Mr
Irving's wider experience suggests are mainly in the nature of
amplifications or extensions of my own suggestions.
May I make a few remarks on the various points raised by him ?
The correspondence between the statement made in his Leonard
sitting with that in the Elliott sitting of which an extract was given
on page 86 of my report, is very interesting. I agree that if a number
of such correspondences between statements made by different
mediums concerning the post mortem conditions of the ostensible
communicators could be found, they might be held to possess some
small evidential value, but until such correspondences are forth-
coming in considerable numbers and of many varieties, I think it is
safer to take the attitude which I adopted and, while not denying
the possibility of evidential value, not to seek to use it in supporting
any hypothesis. As it happened, the matter under discussion when
I made the remark in question was a statistical one and whether I
had allowed an evidential value to these post mortem statements
or not would have made little, if any, difference in the conclusion.
As regards Feda's use of symbolism, I, of course, accept Mr
Irving's interpretation of the " mackintoshes and umbrellas
"
incident. I had before me simply the record of the words used by
Feda and, as Mr Irving says, any one reading the script might take
this for an example of symbolism.
On this matter of symbolism and the psychological processes
involved in the reception and transmission of impressions received
by the medium, Mrs Salter's paper in the same issue of Proceedings
has much of great interest.
Concerning proper names, I was, of course, only speaking of the
sittings actually before me. I know of one or two cases, apart from
these, where names have been correctly or nearly correctly given,
but on the whole, so far as my knowledge goes, I think it is correct
to say that proper names, and more especially surnames, do present
a considerable difficulty to the Control. I believe that in this view
many investigators will agree with me. I do not for a moment imply
that such names are never correctly given, I simply suggest that they
are peculiarly difficult to get through, the reason for this difficulty
being easily imaginable. Hence it is that when they are successfully
given they possess a high evidential value,
I cannot quite understand Mr Irving's criticism of my treatment
6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1931
of the reference to Miss Newton and events at the offices of the
Society. I ascribed these provisionally to telepathy or clairvoyance
and said, on page 160, that there was no grounds on which a choice
between the two could be based. In those cases where, as in the one
cited by Mr Irving, the information was not in the possession of Miss
Newton at the time the statement was made, telepathy from her
would seem to be excluded. This might constitute grounds for
preferring the hypothesis of clairvoyance, though telepathy from
some other person who had the necessary information would still
be a possible explanation.
And finally, as regards the apparent discontinuity in communi-
cations, Mr Irving brings forward some very interesting and sugges-
tive facts. On page 114 of my report I remarked that habitual
associations were about the most individual part of the entire
mental furnishing, and suggested that some evidence of identity
might possibly be derived from a study of these. Mr Irving's cases
are good examples of what I was referring to.
I was pleased to note that Mrs Salter, in her paper above referred
to, appears to take the same view as myself. She says on page 325,
" Apart from all physical characteristics a man's personality is
chiefly expressed in the association of ideas which constitute his
memory."
It seems to me that a promising avenue of research might be
found along these lines. Perhaps Mr Irving may be able to discover
among his records some further instances of sequence of topics
which exhibit the probable associative processes of the ostensible
communicator. If a considerable number of such could be found
it would, I submit, be valuable evidence of identity.
Yours, etc.,
H. F. Saltmarsh.
Manifestations op the Living.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—In Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, September 1930, p. 559,
Herr Hans Schubert concludes a paper entitled " Are manifestations
of persons still living possible ?
" by the wish that his readers
should send him well attested evidence bearing on similar facts.
Some forty years ago, in St Petersburg, I came across such a
fact. In M. D. Shilkm's circle (who was later on one of my best
friends) a " message " was once received—not in my presence
—
purporting to come from a certain Manassevitch-Manouiloff (who
played a rather sinister part many years later in the political life
of the Russian Empire). Manassevitch-Manouiloff, then in Paris,
gave his correct address alleged to have been unknown to any one
January 1931 Correspondence 7
present (" Hotel Bergere, cite Rhin ") and mentioned by name Mme
E—eff, a lady with whom he was staying, a fact also supposed to
be unknown. It turned out afterwards that he had epileptic fits
at the time and therefore may have " communicated " during one
of those fits ; and on his return to St Petersburg, when Mme E—eff 's
name was mentioned to him, he was said to have shown much
embarrassment.
I had at the time a proces-verbal of the sitting in question drawn
up, and sent a translation to Mr Myers who, I think, thought the
ease remarkable. Unfortunately it was afterwards ascertained so
far as I can remember that the (private) medium through whom the
message was obtained, played tricks on some other occasion or
occasions ; so we thought it safer to consider the Manassevitch-
Manouiloff case as null and void. But it may have been genuine
after all.
Yours, etc.
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
REVIEWS.
Gonzalo R. Lafora, Don Juan and other Psychological Studies.
Translated by Janet H. Perry. Preface by Charles S. Myers.
8vo, pp. 288, 13 ill. London : Thornton Butterworth, Ltd.,
1930. Price 7s. 6d. net.
This book contains five essays, with the last of which, entitled
" Spiritism ", we are alone concerned. The author is described on
the titlepage as " Professor of Psychiatry in the Faculty of Medicine,
Director of the Laboratory for Cerebral Physiology at the Cajal
Institute, University of Madrid ", and in addition, on the wrapper,
as " Vice-President of the Spanish League for Mental Hygiene ".
The translator, we are informed, is " Lecturer in the Department
of Spanish Studies, University of London, King's College ". The
writer of the Preface is of course a distinguished psychologist, to
whom, the translator states (p. 11), she owes " a debt of gratitude
for his careful revision of my manuscript ".
Under these eminent auspices we are entitled to expect a treatment
of the subject distinguished by scientific precision and psychological
insight. And our hopes are encouraged by Professor Lafora himself,
who repeatedly declares himself to be animated by the most rigorous
scientific principles. All too soon, however, the reader perceives
that these hopes are not to be realised. At the very outset of his
essay we find the author sustaining his argument by lengthy
quotations from the Daily Mirror, soon followed by similar excerpts
from La Petite Gironde and from the Paris Times. We find the
following definition (p. 238) :
" Automatic writing, produced by
8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1931
some instrument unknown to the medium, or else by a pencil only ".
In short, Professor Lafora's essay on spiritism is quite valueless.
Many of his errors it is astonishing that the translator and the
writer of the preface should have passed. We are glad to say,
however, that when the worst of the author's mistakes, one affecting
the Society, was pointed out to the publishers, they readily agreed
to cause it to be corrected in future copies sold.
Th. B.
Emile Cailliet, La Prohibition de VOcculte. 8vo, pp. xii. 206.
Paris : Felix Alcan, 1930. Price 15 fr.
This book, though its conclusions must be rejected, deserves a
welcome on the score of its subject and of its method. The subject
of the book is Prof. Bergson's conclusion in his Presidential Address
to the S.P.R. (Proceedings, xxvi. 463) that behind the prejudice
entertained by official science against psychical research lies an
unconscious though natural and deeply-rooted metaphysic. Prof.
Caillet's method is to examine this metaphysic by tracing it back to
the savage's belief in magic and fear of the sorcerer. This application
of psychologico-ethnological treatment to psychical research is
becoming more and more recognised as an essential part of our
studies : for a true perspective is notably lacking in psychical
research.
In the present book, however, it is with some astonishment that
towards the end of a volume notable for its clear reasoning and
command of the facts, the reader is suddenly confronted with the
conclusion that the metaphysic postulated by Prof. Bergson is a
true one and one that has divine sanction. How Prof. Cailliet came
to such a conclusion after convincingly demonstrating that the
unconscious prejudice in question is simply a survival of the super-
stitions of savage man, is a difficult problem.
Th. B.
Pierre Villey, The World of the Blind (a Psychological Study).
Translated by Alys Hallard. 8vo, pp. 403. London : Duck-
worth, 1930. Price 7s. 6d. net.
M. Villey, though he has been completely blind since the age of
four and a half, is Professor of Literature at the University of Caen
and is the author of a monumental work on Montaigne. The present
book, which has been awarded a prize by the French Academy of
Moral and Political Science as the best work in recent years on the
psychology of the blind, brings out clearly the qualities which have
enabled its author to triumph over his disability. It is marked by
psychological penetration, a deep knowledge of the literature of
its subject, and, above all, by unsentimental common-sense.
January 1931 Revieivs 9
From the point of view of psychical research chapters IV to VI
are the most important. In these M. Villey shows that the possession
by the blind of a sixth sense or supernormal faculty is merely a
popular legend (a conclusion to which the reviewer has also come as
the result of experiments with blind children). Compensatory
hyperaesthesia of the remaining senses M. Villey demonstrates to be
non-existent. The sense of obstacles is conclusively put down to
minute sensory observations, and the alleged faculty of orientation
is shown to be largely exaggerated, and, what there is of it, to be a
function of the sense of obstacles plus muscular memory. M.
Villey is to be congratulated on a very able, as well as sane and
sensible piece of work.
Th. B.
SHORT NOTICES.
Auguste Viatte, Les Sources Occultes du Romantisme : Illumi-
nisme, Theosophie, 1770-1820. 8vo, 2 vols. Paris : Honore
Champion, 1928. Price 60 fr.
This very fully documented study describes and analyses what
may be called the occult atmosphere of the half-century 1770-1820.
Such phenomena, for instance, as the spread of Swedenborgianism
and Mesmerism are here for the first time placed in a proper historical
perspective. Inevitably much suggestive material is brought
together bearing on the forerunners of modern psychical research.
There is a valuable bibliography, covering manuscripts as well as
printed sources.
Emilio Servadio, La Ricerca Psichica. Preface by Charles Richet.
8vo, pp. 148. Rome : Paolo Cremonese (Collezione Omnia),
1930. Price Lire 6.50.
The author has succeeded in compressing into a very small space
a comprehensive history and survey of most aspects of psychical
research. He is a little indiscriminate in his choice of authorities
and nowhere goes very deep below the surface, but in view of the
space available it is a very creditable performance. Signor Servadio
gives a bibliography of over 200 items, and is up-to-date enough to
announce that the next Congress for Psychical Research will be held
in London in 1932 on the occasion of the jubilee of the S.P.R.
Arthur Conan Doyle, The Edge of the Unknown. 8vo, pp. vii. 332.
London : John Murray, 1930. Price 7s. 6d. net.
Sir Arthur here collected a number of articles on various aspects
of spiritualism. His point of view and method of treatment are
too well known to need explanation, but one cannot help feeling
admiration for the persistence with which Sir Arthur continued to
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1931
advocate the most hopeless causes. Thus, the first and longest of
these articles is one on Houdini, in which the writer still maintained
his conviction that the conjurer accomplished some of his feats with
the help of spirits. It is also a pleasure to welcome Sir Arthur's
statement that " the unmasking of false mediums is our urgent duty
"
(p. 7).
E. J. Dingwall, Ghosts mid Spirits in the Ancient World. 16mo,
pp. 124. London : Kegan Paul (Psyche Miniatures, General
Series, no. 28), 1930. Price 2s. 6d. net.
This is an account of magic, divination, and beliefs in the super-
normal in the ancient world, with the chief emphasis on Egypt.
The field is covered very rapidly, but many points of interest are
brought out. Dr Dingwallnever fails in the important task of draw-
ing the reader's attention to the striking parallels between these
ancient beliefs and contemporary doctrines. His chief fault is a
rather careless use of language. For instance, after writing of the
folklore of fox-elves, he continues (p. Sin.) :
" Stories of this sort
are by no means confined to the realm of myth and fable. A striking
example was occurring in a private family only a few years ago in
the centre of London." Reading a bare statement of this kind the
uninitiated student might well believe that the " striking example
"
is accepted by Dr Dingwall as a fact.
A. A. Friedlander, Telepathie und Hellsehen. 8vo, pp. 89. Stutt-
gart : F. Enke, 1930. Price M. 4.
Professor Friedlander is of the opinion that neither telepathy nor
clairvoyance is true. To justify this view he does not criticise the
published evidence, but prefers to display a very pretty wit in
mocking the follies of anthroposophy, popular prophecies, the
physical phenomenon, " mental radiation ", and the like : every-
thing, in short, but telepathy and clairvoyance. ™
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Revue Metapsychique, September-October 1930.
This number opens with an article by Professor Charles Richet
on " Long fastings " a propos of Therese Neumann. Various cases
of which many are very old (16th, 17th and 18th centuries) are cited,
after which M. Richet proceeds to describe two in his own experience.
Though expressing doubts as to the trustworthiness of some obser-
vations bearing on Therese Neumann (p. 386 footnote), he is of
opinion that we must admit " that paradoxical, unlikely, incredible
and most absurd fact " that Lavoisier's law as to animal heat being
the result of combustions of the carbon and hydrogen contained in
January 1931 Notes on Periodicals 11
the food stuffs absorbed is not without exceptions ; in consequence
we have here to deal, lie thinks, with a special physiology wholly
different from the normal one.
M. Pascal has a lengthy and excellent paper on hypnotism, to
part of which paper Dr Osty, the Editor, replies. Both agree that
the phenomena of hypnotism seem now to be on the wane ; but
whilst M. Pascal believes in a revival of the hypnotic researches,
Dr Osty thinks also possible in the future other (unspecified) methods
" which will put at the physician's disposal the profound resources
of human psychism ". It will probably astonish some of my readers
to hear that, as pointed out by M. Pascal, the very existence of
hypnosis has been denied by some critics (Delmas et Boll, La
Personnalite humaine, 1922) !
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, November 1930.
Dr van Holthe tot Echten, a Dutch magistrate, describes apports
(flowers and pebbles) which occurred in the presence of the medium
Melzer, of Dresden, during his stay in Holland last year. One
incident of the kind at least cannot be explained by Melzer cheating
himself, since he had already left the country ; but of course there
may have been other non-supernormal " possibilities ".
Professor Bleuler has a paper on " Occultism and its Critics ".
It is in fact a lengthy plaidoyer in favour both of the mental and of
the physical phenomena with special reference to the Schneiders.
I agree with the writer when he says a propos of certain theories put
forward to " explain " some of these phenomena that we have in
them " occultism in disguise, not physics " ; and I would specially
mention in this connection, besides hyperaesthesia as used by the
late Dr Baerwald to account for alleged clairvoyance at close
quarters (p. 658), the cosmic reservoir of memories hypothesis.
Dr Mattiesen brings to a close his paper on " The Psychological
Aspect of Spuk " : a mixtum comppsitum of hauntings, poltergeist
performances, and phantasms of the dead d la von Driesen-Pono-
mareff (cp. Proceedings, x. 385). His conclusions are favourable to
the spiritistic theory, though he seems to admit that we may some-
times postulate (supernormal) action on the part of the living as
well. The constant mention of extremely suspicious poltergeist
cases by the side of episodes of a different character and probably
or obviously genuine, however we explain them, is not calculated,
I am afraid, to enhance the value of an otherwise interesting study.
Is it permissible under the present German code to hypnotise in
a trial either the person accused or the witnesses and to use the
information thus obtained ? Dr Werner Lucas discusses this
question and answers it in the negative. Clairvoyants may however,
he maintains, be hypnotised and their statements made use of.
12 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1931
Herr Hans Hanig relates and discusses under the title of " Tele-
pathy or Clairvoyance ?
" a case of the finding of a lost book, where
information thought by him valuable was supplied by Frau Hessel
of Leipzig ; and Dr Marcinowski describes the apparition of an
aunt seen by a friend of his three days before the lady's death.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, December 1930.
Dr Siinner, the Editor, describes some psychometric experiments
of his in Berlin, with Otto Reimann, the Prague " metagraphologist".
One of these in particular dealing with Chinese writing would be no
doubt very striking if we could be sure that it was absolutely
impossible for Reimann to obtain the information given by him,
by normal means ; but in spite of Dr Siinner's very positive asser-
tions to the contrary, it is difficult to feel certain on this point.
Herr Carl Vogl narrates four recent sittings with Frau Silbert
which do not seem particularly instructive one way or the other.
The phenomena (intellectual and physical) which M. A. Konecny
of Prague, observed in the same town of Graz with another
medium, Kordon by name, seem to me to suggest collusion very
strongly.
Dr Freudenberg describes a sitting with Karl Lowen, the 75 years
old Bodenbach " medium ". The latter gentleman is going to be
compelled by his circumstances, we are told, to exhibit himself in
a music hall : it is therefore to be presumed that his phenomena
may be susceptible of a normal explanation after all.
fleinrich Freiherr Droste zu Hiilshoff describes—at best at second
or third hand—an old case of haunting of a very " orthodox
"
character. Dr A. Schmidt prints an account of the premonitory
dream of his own death by drowning seen three days before by a
Czechoslovakian schoolboy. The coincidence is certainly very
striking, though I am strongly inclined to consider it as purely
fortuitous. It is very satisfactory that the case is as well authenti-
cated as it could be.
A propos of Mr Price's report on Rudi, Dr Bruck has a paper on
both Willy and Rudi Schneider and recalls some supposedly super-
normal phenomena he witnessed with them. That most suspicious
of all physical phenomena, direct voices, is dealt with in a short
paper by Herr Gustav Zeller.
An account is reproduced from the Siiddeutsche Sonntagspost
describing how the whereabouts of the dead body of a Herr Pallitsch
of Chemnitz, who had attempted to make the ascent of the Kramer-
kreuz in the Bavarian mountains and had not come back, were
discovered through a clairvoyant dream of Frau Pallitsch's (supple-
mented by an experiment with a pendulum held by a gentleman of
her acquaintance over a map). It is a great pity that there is in
January 1931 Notes on Periodicals 13
Germany no organisation similar to the S.P.R. to substantiate the
newspaper account.
Herr Albert Hellwig, the Potsdam Landgerichtsdirektor, is the
subject of some more vituperation, this time owing to his attitude
when presiding over the Felzer trial which has just taken place at
Potsdam. We wish on the contrary to express to him our sympathy
in this connection.
Zeitschrift fur Metapsychische Forschung, February-September 1930.
This monthly review has taken the place of the defunct Zeitschrift
fur psychische Forschung (of which the last number appeared in
August 1929) and is edited by Dr Christoph Schroder of Berlin. The
general standpoint is to my liking much too " positive," but it must
be admitted that the review contains many papers of interest. Here
we must content ourselves with noticing but a few of them.
Dr Schroder prints a further instalment of his paper on Metaplasma
Phanomenih, in which he reviews the Margery case, and M. Josef
Switkowski's (of Lwow) astounding accounts dealing with alleged
" gradual condensations of apports." In an article on the so-called
mango phenomenon he surveys Jacolliot's experiments with the
fakir Covindasamy, an incident alleged to have occurred with Mrs
d'Esperance in 1880 and testified to by a Mr Oxley, etc. The Jacol-
liot observations are absolutely inexplicable, as described, by
conjuring, and if not genuine imply deliberate lying. I believe the
author of Le Spiritisme dans le monde : VInitiation et les Sciences
Occultes dans VInde (Paris 1875, translated into English as Occult
Science in India [London 1919]), to be regarded as quite untrust-
worthy, but I am not quite aware on what grounds this opinion is
based ;
perhaps one of our French members will be able to sub-
stantiate it.
Two interesting cases bearing on the problem of " spirit-identity
' r
are published. In the first (March number) a Herr Baumert
describes some automatic messages received by himself and dealing
with relations said to have existed between Goethe and Lavater, the
well-known Swiss philosopher and " physiognomist." The messages
appear to have contained particulars unknown consciously to Herr
Baumert and subsequently ascertained to be true. In the second
(February number), a series of evidential communications with very
precise biographical data purporting to come from a German musician
named Rochlitz (died 1842) was obtained in a circle in the course of
several sittings, which name is certified by the sitters on oath to have
been unknown to them. The episode is curious but seems to me to
exemplify but too well the internal weaknesses inherent in cases of
this type.
Professor Messer describes (March number) a sitting given by the
14 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1931
medium Heinrich Melzer, of Dresden, at which, phenomena of what
the Professor calls " possession " occurred. They seem quite
unevidential.
Dr Mattiesen discusses cross-correspondences and champions the
theory of their spiritistic origin (April, June and July numbers). An
audacious and characteristic attempt to rehabilitate Anna Rothe,
the " flower-medium " who was thoroughly exposed in Germany
at the beginning of the present century, is made by Dr Bertram,
(April), who also describes (July, September) some cures achieved
by " animal magnetism ". In the April number also Herr Michal
Mares expresses a different view of the incident discussed by Count
Klinckowstroem in Die Umschau (see Journal, xxvi. 162, and
above, p. 12).
Dr 0. Fischer, of Prague, has a paper (May, June, July numbers)
on Otto Reimann, the Prague " metagraphologist ". Herr Herbert
Baldus discusses (June) magic among certain Red Indian tribes of
South America (chiefly Paraguay). The paper is attractive but any
cases approximating to the S.P.R. standard are conspicuously
absent.
Professor Kasnacich, of Graz, has the beginning of what promises
to be a very lengthy account of Frau Maria Silbert and her pheno-
mena (July, September). His account is hardly calculated to dispel
the unfavourable impression produced on serious students of the
subject by the narratives of such observers as e.g. Dr Walter Prince
and Mr Besterman.
Dr Karl Camillo Schneider has a paper (June number) on " De-
ferred Telepathy " (read at the Athens Congress) dealing with
experiments in telepathy between Vienna and Athens. Here again
we have to do with persistent attempts to interpret quite unsatis-
factory results as successes. Again we feel bound to protest categori-
cally against such a tendency. Besides " deferred " telepathic
impressions, we also note in these Vienna-Athens experiments
" anticipated " ones, which Dr Schneider thinks quite a " novelty ".
Many, of whom I am one, will consider these alleged " anticipations
"
coupled with Dr Schneider's almost desperate attempts at inter-
pretation as nearly fatal to the reality of anything like genuine
thought-transference in the series in question.
Herr Heinrich Neugebauer, a former naval officer, describes
(September) a fakir's seance at Singapore (on board ship) in October
1885. At first Herr Neugebauer witnessed a successful performance
of mango-tree growing, then he had the experiment repeated after
surreptitiously substituting sea water to the fresh water with which
the fakir was to sprinkle the " growing " plant. The experiment
failed, and the Indian, after having ascertained that the water was
salty, flew into a rage and ran away. Herr Neugebauer sees in this
15
> - » » l la's »>•*.••» » '
a proof that the " phenomenon '
in question was a " natural " one
(here " natural " and genuine are of course almost synonymous)
since the use of salt water in most cases acts fatally on plant-
growing.
Der Morgen, 1930, Heft 1.
Professor Hans Driesch has a very valuable paper on " Para-
psychological Hypotheses." Only mental supernormal phenomena
are dealt with. Our late President commences by briefly reviewing
the alleged facts and then enumerates the hypotheses put forward
to account for them, beginning first with those which attempt to
" eliminate " the facts themselves : chance-coincidence, fraud,
fishing, unconscious indications, " specially favoured (bevorziigte)
reactions " (by which is meant the tendency some people have to
choose a certain number or a certain colour, etc.), illusions of memory.
Then come the " positive " theories : that of brain-waves, or, as
Professor Driesch prefers to call it, the broadcast or radiation
hypothesis, the animistic hypotheses (Professor Driesch notes that
there are several of them), the " World Consciousness " and " Life
planes " theories, and Spiritism, which the writer thinks worthy of
serious discussion. The two last sections of the paper deal with
prophecy and psychometry. Whilst greatly admiring the masterly
way in which the matter is presented and reviewed, I cannot help
thinking the discussion of such theories as e.g. that of a " World-
Consciousness," premature. I also think prevision of the future far
less established than the author seems to believe (p. 30) ; nor do I
consider that the evidence in favour of psychometry altogether
justifies us in examining in detail the more or less bewildering
" positive " theories put forward in connection with this, to Professor
Driesch, " the obscurest phenomenon of the whole of parapsycho-
logy," but which to my mind is not yet established on an incon-
trovertible basis of fact.
Leipziger Illustrirte Zeitung, 20 November 1930, no. 4471.
Count Klinckowstroem has a short but suggestive paper on
mediums who confess their own frauds, beginning as far back as
1882 and 1883 (Chapman, who, the writer says, helped Alfred
Firman for many years, and Truesdell). We are reminded at the
end that the notorious Kraus, with whom Dr von Schrenck-Notzing
experimented, and who was the subject, under the pseudonym of
Weber, of a paper read by the Baron at the Paris Congress of 1927,
and of a report by Mr Besterman in the Journal, xxiv. 388-92, has
not yet succeeded in publishing his detailed description of how he
performed his tricks. We trust it will be published. P.-P.-S.
848519
16 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1931
The Aryan Path, January-December 1930.
This new periodical contains much of interest to students of
psychical research. In the April issue are two brief articles on " Psy-
chical Research and Spiritualism : Two Points of View ", the
former being represented by Mr H. S. Redgrove, the latter by Mr
D. Gow. Similar articles appear in the June number, Sir Lawrence
Jones writing on " The Present Position of Psychical Research
"
and Mr Gow on " Spiritualism—Forty Years After ", to which the
Editors add an Afterword. In the numbers for July to October is
printed a series of four articles entitled collectively " Contacting
the Invisible "
;
they deal respectively with " Intercommunica-
tions ", " Mediums and Mediumship ", " Mediums, Psychics and
Religions ", and " The Path of Theosophy ". The Editors of this
periodical are concerned to maintain a lofty idealistic outlook on
things and affairs ;
they are critical both of psychical research and
of spiritualism, though going further in their acceptance of super-
normal phenomena than most critical students of psychical research.
Th. B.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all
Members and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in
maintaining this privacy.
No. 4=72.—Vol. XXVII. February 1931
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 277th. Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Friday. 16 January 1931, at 3 p.m., Mr J. G.
Piddington in the chair. There were also present : Sir Lawrence
Jones, Bart., The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs Henry Sidgwick, and Dr V. J. Woolley ; also Mr Theodore
Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
The Report of the Council for the year 1930 was considered and
approved as amended.
The 278th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 28 January 1931, at 3 p.m., Mrs
Henry Sidgwick in the chair. There were also present : The Earl
of Balfour, Sir Ernest Bennett, Mr W. R. Bousfield, K.C., Professor
E. R. Dodds, Miss Ina Jephson, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr
G. W. Lambert, Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr J. G. Piddington, Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal, and Dr V. J. Woolley ; also
Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Certain questions connected with the future policy of the Society
were considered and fully discussed.
THE LONDON PSYCHICAL LABORATORY.
[We have pleasure in printing, as requested, the following notice.
It is impossible for too much research of a serious kind to be carried
on into the many difficult problems of psychical research, and we
therefore welcome the creation of this new body. —Ed.]
After careful thought the Council of the London Spiritualist
Alliance have decided to found a Research Branch to be known as
E
IS Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1931
The London Psychical Laboratory. A Committee to this end has
been established and the following gentlemen have consented to
serve :
Lord Charles Hope.
Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P.
Mr H. F. Prevost Battersby.
Mr J. W. Miller.
Mr H. Leitner.
Dr B. Fielding-Ould (Chairman).
(Miss Phillimore, Secretary).
That there is an immense field open for scientific Besearch in
Psychic Science cannot be disputed, and it was obvious that an
influential organisation like the London Spiritualist Alliance could
not ignore its obligations in this direction.
The Committee have full power to carry on any research that
seems promising, but is under the direct control of the L.S.A.
Council in matters of finance and publicity.
The Proceedings of the Besearch Committee will be published in
Light from time to time, and Beprints circulated to all the leading
Psychic Societies in Europe and America.
The Secretary (as above) will always be glad to receive suggestions
and any information in regard to mediums which will help the
Committee in its work.
Even the most enthusiastic Spiritualist will agree that nothing
but good can accrue by turning the cold eye of science upon the
elusive and mystifying phenomena in which he is deeply interested.
CASE.
P. 301. A Premonition.
It will be remembered that Miss Clarissa Miles, a valued Member
of the Society, died in August last and that an obituary notice was
printed in the October Journal (xxvi. 116). We have to thank her
sister, Mrs Geoffrey Lubbock (also a Member) for sending us the
following account of her sudden death and her anticipation that
something was going to happen.
" Case of Premonition.
" My sister, Miss Clarissa Miles, lived for 22 years in a Flat in
Egerton Gardens. The lease of this Flat terminated on the 14th
August this year.
" For months she had told us of her glorious visions which to her,
appeared to be, the end of the World in its present state, and the
approach of the Spiritualizing of the World. My sister Mrs Kings-
Febkuaby 1931 Case L9
cote & I, had implored her to look for another residence, all last
summer, but she always responded '
My life is going to change, the
Flat has served its purpose, & don't worry me as to what I am going
to do, something will happen before then.'
" On Monday August 11th she had a stroke & she died on Wed.
Aug. 13th, the day before the lease of her Flat was up. Miss Edith
Harper writes me : on the morning of the 11th she rang Miss Miles
up on the telephone, & asked her where she was going when she left
her Flat, she replied, '
I hav'nt the least idea, I have made no plans
whatever.' She paused a moment and then added '
I feel something
is going to happen before then, yes something is going to happen
almost any time now.'
" [Signed] Marguerite Lubbock."
The evidence of two people is always better than one, and at our
request Mrs Lubbock was good enough to ask Miss Harper (men-
tioned above) if she would give us her account of what occurred,
which she has very kindly done as follows :
" As desired, I willingly send you my recollection of my last con-
versation with Miss Clarissa Miles. She was a very intimate friend
and I was in close touch with her movements. I knew she had
given up her flat in August but had made no arrangements for a
future dwelling. On the morning of Monday 11th August this year
[1930] my mother received a letter from her saying she had arranged
to store her furniture and to leave the flat on the following Thursday
(14th). She asked that I would ring her up and arrange to come
to tea before then. I duly rang up, about 10 a.m. Miss Miles
herself answered the telephone, and sounded quite cheerful. We
fixed the following afternoon, Tuesday 12th, for my visit. I asked
where she intended going on Thursday when she left the flat, and
she replied '
I have not the very remotest idea. I have made no
plans whatever,' or words to that effect, equally emphatic. She
then added :
'
I feel something is going to happen before then.' I
made some answer like '
Do you ?
'
and she repeated in a tone of
great finality '
Yes, I feel something is going to happen.' We talked
a little more and she told me to be sure to come next day. We then
said Goodbye. That is the last time I have ever heard her voice.
When I went next day to Egerton Gardens Miss Miles was quite
unconscious, and she passed away on Wednesday 13th August, just
two days after her talk with me on the telephone.
" Miss Miles frequently spoke of some great and wonderful event
she felt would happen very suddenly. She was wont to give a
spiritual interpretation to most of the affairs of life, both everyday
and national.
" [Signed] Edith K. Harper."
20 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1931
In reply to a suggestion that Miss Miles might have had sub-
consciously some vague perception of the state of health preceding
the stroke, Miss Harper wrote :
" I am perfectly sure that Miss Miles had no anticipation of her
own immediate death. She was extremely active, never spared
herself, and on at least one occasion shortly before her passing
declared she never felt better in her life. I however noticed the
last time I saw her, sometime in July, that she looked tired. But
many people do, in hot summer weather, do they not. Her pro-
phetic ideas always related to some great '
cosmic '
event about to
happen, of which we were '
just on the eve,' and she fitted current
happenings, personal and universal, '
into the picture.'
"
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR THE YEAR 1930.
Spontaneous Phenomena. Various cases of spontaneous pheno-
mena, both mental and physical, have been reported to the Officers
of the Society during the year, and each case, as well as some cases
reported in the Press, has been followed up so far as practicable.
The Council regret, however, that the number of cases of spontaneous
mental phenomena received by the Society has shown a distinct
falling off in recent years. This is not the first occasion that the
Council have had to record a decrease. It would seem that there
are recurrent good and bad periods for spontaneous cases, and that
the present period is a bad one owing to the erroneous belief that
it is no longer of scientific interest to collect and analyse cases of this
kind, in view of the number that have already been collected and
analysed by the Society. Some of our Members and Associates may
perhaps hold the view that the cases already collected are sufficient
to establish telepathy or some other supernormal faculty, but this
position is far from being accepted by general scientific opinion.
Moreover, even if there were general agreement that the cases
already collected were sufficient to prove, e.g. telepathy, it would
still be necessary to go on collecting them, both because evidence
loses much of its cogency with the lapse of time and also because
every fresh case may throw some light on the psychology and modus
operandi of supernormal faculties, of which little is at present known.
Another cause of the decrease may be that popular interest in these
cases has been satiated by recent exploitation in the public press.
During the year visits were made to four houses in various parts
of London, and to one in Leicester, for the purpose of investigating
alleged apparitions and noises. In none of these cases was there
reason to suppose that any supernormal causes were at work.
Experimental Work. A great deal of work has been done during
the past year in analysing the results of the experiments in telepathy
February, 1931 Annual Report of the Council for 1930 21
and clairvoyance mentioned in the last two Annual Reports. The
clairvoyance experiments had not been completed by the end of
1929, as the results obtained by Professor Gardner Murphy had still
to be received. Owing to the large number of percipients, both in
the United Kingdom and the United States, the analysis of the
results was a complicated work, in which the experimenters were
again fortunate enough to secure the advice of Dr R. A. Fisher,
F.R.S., of Rothamsted, and Dr E. S. Pearson, of University College,
London. The co-operation of members of the Boston S.P.R.
brought a most valuable addition to the experiment. Papers on
these experiments in clairvoyance and telepathy have been read by
Miss Jephson and Mr Soal.
Mass experiments in telepathy and clairvoyance under strict con-
ditions are somewhat of a novelty, and the technique for conducting
them requires careful study. Among the objects of such experi-
ments may be mentioned (1) to test how widely the faculties of
telepathy and clairvoyance (assuming them to exist) are distributed ;
(2) to determine the psychological elements such as preferences of
various kinds present in normal individuals and allowance for which
has to be made in evaluating supposed supernormal phenomena ;
(3) to discover individual percipients with powers sufficiently marked
to justify their intensive investigation ; and (4) to provide some sort
of check on other experiments conducted under less strict conditions.
These particular experiments did not give results indicating the
existence of any factor other than chance. Possibly the conditions
enforced may not have been such as to encourage any supernormal
faculty existing among the percipients. Only by further experi-
ments can it be shown whether it is possible to devise a technique
providing adequate safeguards against normal leakage and at the
same time free from any inhibitive factor.
Miss Jephson has, throughout the year, continued to carry out-
further experiments with cards, with members of the Society and
with Mr Soal's group of percipients. In order to make the condi-
tions as informal as possible, the experiments have been conducted
on several occasions in the form of games at parties given by Miss
Jephson, and also later by Mrs Worsfold.
The Council take this opportunity to thank all the numerous
members and others who have taken part in these experiments, who
have helped in their organisation, or who have contributed towards
the expenses ;
in particular, Dr Fisher, Dr Pearson, Professor
Gardner Murphy, and Dr Flugel.
In addition to group experiments, investigation of individuals
with marked powers is also desirable, and the Council hope that if
Members or Associates know of any persons who apparently possess
telepathic or clairvoyant powers in a marked degree and would be
22 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1931
willing to collaborate in further experiments, they will help the work
by informing the Society.
The Council consider that at the present time experiments in
telepathy and clairvoyance offer the most promising line of research
work which the Society can pursue, and they hope that they will be
pursued with vigour.
Sittings with Mediums. During the year sittings have been held
by officers of the Society, and also by members co-operating with
them, with various " mental " mediums, including several who are
little known and some who have been brought to the Society's notice
for the first time during the year. Whenever the Officers of the
Society hear of a promising new medium in this country, sittings are
at once obtained. In some cases, however, it is impossible for the
Society to get such access to the medium as would enable any useful
investigation to be made.
Records of these sittings are preserved in the Society's files, and
from time to time brief abstracts are printed in the Journal. But
it has never been the Society's practice to publish in Proceedings
reports of sittings which present no features that are either new in
character or of marked evidential value.
For help in investigating several of these mediums the Council
wish to thank various members of the Society. One of the new
mediums investigated (non-professional) presented matter for useful
investigation of the trance state. Several sittings have already been
held with this medium and more are arranged for ; two medical
members of the Society are co-operating with the Research Depart-
ment in the investigation.
Preliminary work has been done in the Stance-room with a view
to a systematic study (to be carried out in the immediate future) of
the psychology of testimony as applied to physical phenomena.
The Library. The grant from the Carnegie United Kingdom
Trust is now in its fourth and last year. Chiefly with its aid the
number of books and pamphlets in the Library has been approxi-
mately doubled, and now stands at over 6900, an increase of over
500 during the year. A further Supplement to the Catalogue, cover-
ing the period from October 1929 to December 1930 inclusive, will
be published early in 1931.
A gratifying increase in the number of Members borrowing from
the Library and of books borrowed can again be reported : during
the year 99 Members borrowed 868 volumes, apart from a large
number consulted in the Library. In addition 74 volumes were
borrowed by the National Central Library, many more than last
year. For the first time Members exercised their privilege of bor-
rowing from the National Central Library, through the Society,
books not in the Society's Library, without restriction of subject.
February 1931 Annual Report of the Council for 1930 23
The Society was again represented by Mr Besterman at the
Annual Conference (at New College, Oxford) of the Association of
Special Libraries and Information Bureaux (ASLIB), to which the
Society is affiliated. During the year Mr Besterman was elected to
the Council of this body. Members are again reminded that as
books can be obtained through the National Central Library, so can
information be secured by Members through ASLIB, in each case
without cost.
President for 1930. Dr Walter Franklin Prince, the Research
Officer of the Boston Society for Psychic Research, was elected
President for 1930. Dr Prince is one of the most experienced, per-
severing and distinguished students of psychical research now living
and the Council look upon Dr Prince's presidency as further evidence
of the cordial relations which have always existed between serious
psychical researchers in the United Kingdom and the United States.
The Council wish to express their appreciation to Dr Prince for
having come specially to England, in July, to deliver his Presidential
Address, which, has now been published as Part 115 of Proceedings,
and re-issued with the Council's permission as a Bulletin of the
Boston S.P.R.
The Athens Congress. The 4th International Congress for Psy-
chical Research was held at Athens in April 1930, when the Society
was represented by Sir Oliver Lodge, the Hon. Treasurer, and the
Librarian and Editor.
At the Congress, which was highly successful, the representatives
of the S.P.R. gave an invitation, which was unanimously accepted
by the other delegates, that the next International Congress should
be held in London in the autumn of 1932, which year is the 50th
anniversary of the foundation of the Society.
In giving this invitation the Society has undertaken a heavy
responsibility, and the Council hope that Members and Associates
will loyally co-operate in seeing that it is adequately discharged.
The Council have already appointed Committees for dealing both
with the business side of the Congress and the entertainment of
visitors, and also with the preparation of papers on those branches
of psychical research in which our Society has taken a particular
interest.
At the Athens Congress the Society's representatives also under-
took the responsibility of getting the Transactions of that Congress
published in the United Kingdom. The Transactions, which were
prepared for publication by Mr Besterman, were published in
December at the price of 7/6 and are now on sale. The Council
hope that they will have a ready sale among Members and Associates
so that the Society need have no apprehension of incurring any
financial loss through undertaking to publish the volume. Generous
24 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1931
contributions have been received from Continental sources, and it is
hoped that individual members of our Society will not be backward.
Changes in the Council. The Council appointed Miss Jephson
(previously a co-opted member) an elected member to fill the vacancy
created by the resignation of Mr Feilding, recorded in the Annual
Report for 1929.
Dr C. D. Broad of Trinity College, Cambridge, was co-opted a
member of Council.
Obituary. During the year the Society suffered a heavy loss in
the death of the Earl of Balfour, who had been a member since 1882.
He was President in 1893, and he was a vice-President from the
formation of the Society to the time of his death.
The Council also regret to record the deaths of nineteen Members
and Associates, including the following, who have been members for
a considerable time : Miss Louisa Bigg (who left the Society a legacy
of £100), Sir Edward Brabrook, Miss L. E. Cotesworth, Miss Clarissa
Miles, Miss Edith Shove, Dr Abraham Wallace and Madame
Yaraschenko.
Attacks on the Society by Members. In January 1930 the late Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle, then a Member, addressed to all Members and
Associates a circular in which he announced that he had resigned
iiis membership of the Society owing to his disapproval of its alleged
anti-spiritualist bias, and he invited other Members and Associates
to follow his example by resigning and joining another organisation,
which he named. The Council are glad to say that this attack on
the Society failed almost completely, only six Members and one
Associate, none of whom had ever taken an active part in the
Society's work, resigning on the ground of agreement with this
circular. Other attacks by other members in the public press and
elsewhere have met with equally small success.
Membership of the Society. The Council have, however, to record
a serious number of resignations for other reasons, in particular on
account of the general economic depression which, as is well-known,
is affecting other Societies of all kinds. The total resignations taking
effect between 1 January 1930 and 1 January 1931 amount to
eighty-four, viz. fifty-nine Members and twenty-five Associates. A
great majority of those who gave any reason for their resignation
mention financial stringency, long illness, residence abroad, etc.
The new Members elected number thirty-nine, and the Society
now (1 January 1931) has 586 Members and 368 Associates. As
mentioned in last year's Report it is inevitable that the number of
Associates should decline so long as financial reasons compel the
maintenance of the rule of not electing new Associates.
But if the Society has suffered from the general depression, it
must be remembered that it is still reaping the benefit of the con-
February 1931 Annual Report of the Council for 1930 25
tinued interest and co-operation of several hundred people outside
the Society who, ever since the Broadcast Experiment in 1928, have
helped in experimental work. It was this group which made pos-
sible Mr Soal's prolonged series in long-distance telepathy, the ex-
periment with cards in sealed envelopes, and Miss Jephson's new
series.
Mr Price's Circulars. In October a Member of the Society, Mr
Harry Price, wrote to the Council suggesting that an amalgamation
should take place between the S.P.R. and his " National Laboratory
of Psychical Research."
Before the Council had had time to reply to this proposal, Mr Price
circulated to the Members and Associates of the Society a copy of
his letter to the Council, together with voting papers (unnumbered
and not requiring signatures) which they were asked to return. The
Council consider as most improper this attempt to obtain the opinion
of the general body of Members and Associates on a proposal which
Mr Price had submitted to the Council and which the Council in
accordance with his request had under consideration. They do not
intend to take any further notice of it. Mr Price's letter to the
Council and the Council's reply have been printed in the Journal for
December 1930. Mr Price has since issued a further circular, dated
19 December. The Council feel it their duty to inform Members
and Associates that in framing their reply to Mr Price's proposal
they took into consideration :
(a) That the principles on which the Society was founded and in
accordance with which it has always been carried on, do not admit
of the kind of publicity practised and advocated by Mr Price.
(b) That the greater part of his instruments and books are of
little or no value for psychical research, whatever other value may
attach to them.
(c) That, far from any financial benefit accruing to the Society if
the proposal were accepted, the result might well be a serious loss.
Privacy of the Journal. In the Journal for June and July 1930
the Council caused a note to be printed, drawing attention to the
private nature of the Journal, and expressing the hope that all
Members and Associates would co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy. The Council were compelled to issue this appeal
because of several instances in which matter printed in the Journal
was reprinted elsewhere without their consent. So long as the
privacy of the Journal is respected Members and Associates have the
advantage of reading records of sittings, reports of " supernormal
"
phenomena, etc., which the contributors often desire not to be made
public. It is also possible in a Journal, the circulation of which is
confined to readers with some knowledge of psychical research, to
print cases interesting in themselves but not always fully conform-
O © t>
^ a Ol
© © o
00 © ©
© © ©
l> Ol CO
tH r-i r-\
OinHOlMOHOO(MOWOO00O«5OO
i-H i—
I
H N O O N O O © O O CO O N CO lO CO ^
rH ,-H r-l rH i—( l—l i-H H H
HCOMiflHiOOliMCliOCltOHtOOiflNCOCl
C] l> -ri CO © r-1 CO C-l H H rI i—1 ^ CO
i-l CO tH i-H
(O ©
© CO
© ©
© ©
i-H CO
W)
-
£131
6, 3 §
s ° 4~
a -5 a,
5a
ft?
§1
c o
O 00
a\ <^ "
K) ft, Co ft, 03 6h
SO
e
ft .-O
g & -g |
•"S S 5 e
s ft; ft;
a
=
« B M -3
~ a.
1
£ s
g o
IS 50 S
&MOt33fc1
^'V2Q,^,C;^^i^ft(0
z - CM © CO
- f - © - t— © c
- i-H
© © © z © r D
CO 3' H CM S 1
rH CO CM CM
C|)
rH
O O O 00 CO
© 00 CO i-H
© © CM ©
© CO
PI
i O
-
a
:
*
-urn
o c
- -
5«
5> f;
o 5
''
a 3
o £ £ H c
Mft a 2ft
5 O
H m x
2 G 2
4S 3
f-r ^
Ch f-i
> 0
OfflHO
CM rH **©
GO © © r-
1
CJ CI CO CO
© © © ©
fa
oo :o o ' 1
o © © ©
rH CM CO ~# CM ©
—
CJ i-H CO ©
© -
CO i—
l
© © rH 00
CM CO CO fO
© © © ~
HHH CO
o ft.
o o S
>> >> C3
CO ft l-s
C| co
.gi .
ft,
&2
g
&0
. IS
e ft
o
^ t-l
60
a
id
e. 2 rt
.-^ I i.
ft g
« ft;
"a .o o
6 ^ -3
s
P,
G s a
3 o
fc, o
O Ol O i-H o
00 h CI H H CO
CI CO O O o
if
1*
CO
CO Hi
93
5 s
a £
2, ir a
15
5*3
3 "
^ ° -3
S "I
co ^ co
& CO o
S ,«CS
« § S3
CI O
,3, 03
^ <3 tn
3
OP?
'SIS
~3
-g o
° is ° ~
< S ° S
-a* o
3d ^
opj
m c o o
2 E 5 & -S
&3 fl, O £ «?
CO o oj t- 3 o uO
O r-1 00 o OJ
- r - CD CO
— — rH
o
iO o CO CO CO 00 CO o
CO CO r- — 00
CO co CO
t#
in
5ft'
13
-
-
=
-
x
-
-
Eh O
r-C O
00 o
CO o
<3 a
£ O
o c
CO '3
OS S
=? s
3 2
a •«
S c
a
-2 =j
r"
' CJ
-
3
o
«i p? <Jj cq
9b - -
aq -
-
-
<!
-
~ o CI
o O o 00 CO
O z H dp
;0 iC © 00
— CO
is u
Q 3 ?
S Eh
£ O
e
vS O '-n
»
-
-
I
—
-
Q
00 01 o
r-
1
OS
OS
-
p
—
Ph
o
a
oo
o o
CO "S
° £ J?
3 « c
a ^ c
•> s o
ft,
0?
co O 00 c: --i
OS «
- a
II
S o
8 <!
s1
^
=5 =3
o
W p,
» Q
] O
ZD
«1
-a
6) « S ^
<e Si o c
o > « ^
•c- ^ Co Co
^ „ CO *1
•s -a
OS
ft?
I
o
ft?
ft-s
O
I
Q fe( ^
o c o O
o o lO
H
X in 00 <N
CO ta
CM CO
crt
a
I 5=
p
(3
, fP
- c
q §
o
5 "a
g*3
65
lis
t£ CD
—
1
o
H
I>
00 ro 01
O iO
V 1 CD
cij CO
(I 5
t
m
H
GO
<!
c
s
+j> Co
js o o "
5 —
a
H
H
Q
y,
o fl o
O > 2
S & * I a s
2 i S? a a
2 -s « 2 g a
5 £3 O g 6? 3°
aj SI >, 9 * -s.
» d ss -a g g
^ -2 ^ r3 ~
'
f * 3 2 d c
is °3 >5 3
S 2 o
C_> *-< —1 1
„ EH > i
l
o .
.-frl t
ITd -# I
o c IS a c
C3
3
O O O O O iH
o o o o o
— o o o o o
o o o o o
o
*J CO
so _
cd f>
a o
O o
o VP
O CO
o o
o o
o
r-T ^
O O CO i-h i> m X o o
O ic) O CD CI lid to o CD
if) M O ^ N O ?1 t! CI
crt ctf m m _T ^ 0f « pi4
-
y
— o CJ
S « =0
_ 0)
O 2 S
£ "S £
g §•
g
m q ph
_g
C^P. sP sO fl
D O
x CT- CD
~ "* "* «
O .3
°3
+= TS ^ r-t
CO
02
a
>> cq p..
1111! cj CJ
o o
o 6
% *l -A 35
CO
2 .2 .2 ^
tn O O !_
O O U HH
tC CO .
^ =3 ^ g
™ 3 C d
a 9 ^
^ § 3 §
5 &
3 >
g g ° >.
=3 « o -2
o H
S 2
s I „
9 ^ o 3
S O O 1-1
^ C3 ^
[j d d k
O O O C3
CO H? 1=)
c a.
-
CO
-t-i ~* JJ —
-
3
O -a
^ o
3 « -S
^ S
^3
01 o o o o o o o o o o £ o
r-HCiOOOOOOOOo'oo
H 1-1
c
lOOOOmoCOCO-^fModt-.
ctt 00 01 0] O) if5 UT H - t-h
« « ») H- « « ^ --1-1
J= "Ji
^ srt 6i
13 O
a -S
M 1
o
~ a
^ Z
•d o
* a
CO
30 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Fkbruary 1931
mg to the highest standards of evidence. A private Journal also,
gives excellent opportunities for the frank exchange of opinions
between its readers.
The Council accordingly wish to reiterate with the utmost em-
phasis the appeal made in the Journal for June and July.
Publications. Three parts of Proceedings were published during
the year : Part 114 in March, and Parts 115 and 116 in October.
Three further Parts are in the press.
The Secretary's sales to the general public amounted to £40 2s. 6d.,
and of the Proceedings and Journal to Members of the Society, to
£65 4s. lOd. ; the total returns from the Society's agent in America
amounted, after deduction of commission, to £12 lis. 4d. In addi-
tion the amount of £107 7s. was received from Messrs Jackson,
Wylie and Co. on the winding up of the Society's account with these
former agents.
Meetings. The following meetings have been held during the
year
:
27 February. Annual General Meeting.
2 April. " Some Investigations into Poltergeists," by Dr
V. J. Woolley.
5 June. " The Recent Congress at Athens," by Mr W. H.
Salter.
*14 July. Presidential Address by Dr Walter Franklin
Prince.
*31 October. " Experiments in Supernormal Perception at a
Distance," by Mr S. G. Soal.
*26 November. " A Series of Experiments in Clairvoyant Card-
guessing with a more evidential Technique," by
Miss Ina Jephson.
REVIEW.
Anita M. Muhl, Automatic Writing. 8vo, pp. xv. 214, 20 plates.
Dresden and Leipzig : Theodor Steinkopff, 1930. Price 12s. 6d.
The author of this book (which, though published in Germany, is
written in English), was formerly an assistant physician at St
Elizabeth's (Psychiatric) Hospital, Washington. She has made a
special study of the use of automatic writing for therapeutic pur-
poses, as a means of evoking forgotten memories and associations.
It is evident from the reports she gives of some of her cases that this
method can be practised with good results, though Dr Muhl gives a
timely warning against its indiscriminate use without proper super-
vision. According to Dr Muhl's experience the habit of writing
* General Meetings.
February 1931 Review 31
automatically can be induced in the great majority of cases (includ-
ing persons in normal health of mind and body) by regular practice
under favourable conditions : in some cases automatism is best in-
duced by complete rest and quietude, in others by setting the subject
to read aloud, thus distracting the normal consciousness.
The examples quoted and discussed by Dr Muhl, though of con-
siderable psychological interest, have little relation to the experi-
ments in automatic writing carried out in recent years by the S.P.R.
This is made clear by the statement on p. 22 that " the material
produced ... is endogenous." That this statement is true in a
great majority of cases no student of automatism is likely to deny,
but on the other hand there is a small residue in which the evidence
for some extraneous influence of a supernormal character (probably
telepathic) is exceedingly strong. Dr Muhl would be hard put to it
to fit into her preconceived framework the whole of the trance-
writings, let us say, of Mrs Piper, to which, curiously enough, she
makes no reference.
It is of some interest to observe that, generally speaking, the
writings discussed by Dr Muhl differ markedly in character from
those in which there is good evidence of supernormal faculty :
according to her own statement (p. 97) their two principal sources
of origin are " 1. Phantasy, and 2. Actual Recall." Actual recall,
that is, recall of past incidents and memories in the life of the auto-
matist, seems to play an almost negligible part in writings of the
supernormal type, and phantasy of the simple, obvious, fairy-tale
kind described by Dr Muhl, has only a minor role, though it does
undoubtedly intrude at times. Examples are to be found in some
of the material from Mrs Piper's trance-writings quoted by Mrs
Sidgwick in her paper on " The Psychology of Mrs Piper's Trance-
Phenomena " {Proceedings, xxviii), or again, in my mother, Mrs*
Verrall's discussion of her automatic writing, especially in the
references to the " Isles of the Blest " (Proceedings, xx. 112-8). I
believe that if it were possible to classify all automatic writings
according to (a) the amount of purely subjective phantasy they
contained, and (b) the evidence they offered for any supernormal
faculty, these two elements would be found to occur in inverse
proportion.
The obvious points of analogy and difference between Dr Muhl's
examples of automatism and those discussed in our Proceedings
suggest various interesting experiments which might be attempted
by the future student of these subjects. For instance, a good auto-
matist of the supernormal type might be induced by Dr Muhl's
methods to let himself (or herself) go along the lines of phantasy,
with the object of comparing the two kinds of automatic material
thus obtained from the same immediate source. The same auto-
32 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1031
matist (if possessed of sufficient strength and patience !) might also
be subjected to enquiry by other methods of psycho-analysis. In
the present state of our knowledge such experiments offer obvious
difficulties. It is to be hoped that the psychologist of the future
may be better equipped.
In the meantime such researches as Dr Miihl has carried out are
useful in their own field. Incidentally some of the writings she
quotes have a certain naive and childish charm, and there are some
automatic drawings, which though of little artistic value, are
vigorous and expressive.
H. de G. S.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Bulletin du Conseil de Reciterches Metapsychiques de Belgique.
October 1930.
This number opens with a lengthy paper 'by the President, discuss-
ing " Unconsciousness, Tropism, Instinct, Intelligence, the Sub-
conscious, the Superconscious, Intuition, Conscience " : a long and
impressive array.
M. Rutot speaks further of the Vandermeulen apparatus. Many
" messages " received through the Ouija board in connection with
the ringing (Journal, October 1930, pp. 127-128) are reproduced
verbatim. These are—let us speak plainly
—
very stupid and not in
the least calculated to enhance the interest which might be felt in
the apparatus outside a few very small groups. This regrettable
circumstance ought not however to obscure the chief issue : how is
the ringing itself to be explained ? It is for specialists only to
answer this question.
In a short paper on " scientific metagnomy " the same author
describes psychometric experiments with a Mme Lagrange. It is
characteristic that M. Rutot thinks thought-transference was ex-
cluded because in his conscious mind there was only knowledge
bearing on the object, its age, origin, etc., which elements Mme
Lagrange did not detect, whilst she saw the ambiance of the object
and was at times able to " represent its ancient owner's sensations."
As if a clairvoyant could not, we may imagine, abundantly adorn
with his (her) fancy a nucleus telepathically transmitted and per-
ceived without becoming aware of some of the data ! However this
consideration is of a general and purely theoretical character : in
the present case I do not at all feel inclined to postulate any super-
normal hypothesis.
P.-P.-S.
No. 473 —Vol. XXVII. March 1031
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NEW MEMBERS.
Adiercron, Mrs Rodolph, Culverthorpe Hall, Grantham, Lines.
Andreae, Frau Edith, Cronbergerstrasse 7-9, Grunewald-Berlin,
Germany.
Giglio, E., 115 Old Broad Street, London, E.C.2.
Hargreaves, John N. D., 78 Buckingham Gate, London, S.W.I.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 279th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.I, on Wednesday, 6 February 1931, at 3 p.m., Sir
Oliver Lodge in the Chair. There were also present : The Earl of
Balfour, Mr W. R. Bousfield, K.C., Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr
G. W. Lambert. Mr W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal, Mrs Henry Sidgwick,
and Dr V. J. Woolley ; also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and
Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Four new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The procedure at the Annual General Meeting was discussed, and
Sir Oliver Lodge agreed to take the chair.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS.
[It being necessary to complete the Journal for press on the day after
the Meeting, only a brief report is printed below. Ed.]
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was held in
the Society's Library at 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C.I, on
Thursday, 26 February 1931, at 3.30 p.m., Sir Oliver Lodge in the
chair.
The Annual Statement of Accounts and Balance Sheet, and the
Beport of the Council, were taken as read and adopted by the meeting.
The retiring Members of Council were re-elected.
c
34 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1931
Messrs Hartleys, Wilkins, Avery and Flew were elected Auditors
for the year 1931.
Mr Dingwall moved the following Resolution :
" That this
Meeting views with grave concern the decline in the prestige of the
Society both at home and abroad, and is of the opinion that a change
in the administration is desirable."
This Resolution was also signed by Mr G. B. Brown, Mrs J. G.
Robertson, and Mr Charles Rothy, and was defeated on a show of
hands by an overwhelming majority.
Mrs Goldney moved the following Resolution :
" That this meet-
ing approves of the amalgamation (proposed by Mr Harry Price and
supported by an overwhelming majority of S.P.R. voters) of the
National Laboratory of Psychical Research with this Society ; and
requests the Council to appoint a Committee to discuss the details
of the suggested plan with the Administration of the National
Laboratory." This Resolution was also signed by Mr Harry Price
and Mrs J. G. Robertson.
In view of the changed circumstances in regard to the National
Laboratory since Mr Price's proposal was first made the Resolution
was withdrawn, with a view to submitting a further proposal for the
consideration of the Council.
IMPORTANT NOTICE CONCERNING MEETINGS OF
THE SOCIETY.
Meetings of the Society will, from April 1931, be held monthly,
except in August and September. These meetings will provide
opportunity for the usual formal papers, and also for informal ad-
dresses and conversaziones. Notices of the meetings will be printed
as usual in the Journal, and it will be advisable always to consult
these, as special additional meetings may be arranged from time to
time.
Members and Associates are particularly asked to note that all
future meetings (unless specific notice to the contrary is given) will
be held at 5.30 p.m. on the last Wednesday of each month. Tea will
be served from 4.30, to which Members and Associates are invited.
CASE.
L. 1295.
Apparition of a Relative seen at the Time of her Death.
Professor W. W. Grundy, a Member of the Society, very kindly
sent us, in a letter dated 17 November 1930, some particulars of an
apparition seen on the 15th of the same month by his sister-in-law,
Avho was at the time staying in his house. He wrote, in part
:
March 1931 Case 35
" On Saty. last (Nov. 15) my wife was upstairs in bed with a cold.
I was out of doors somewhere and my wife's sister was quietly
reading a novel downstairs, awaiting tea. Suddenly she had a
vision of her aunt, an old lady of 81, in the doorway : she had known
this aunt to have been ill recently although she had got over many
such attacks before and the recent news has been on the whole v.
reassuring.
" She looked at her watch : it marked 4.45.
" That evening—about 7.30. we received a wire handed in at
6.29 p.m. saying that her aunt had passed away '
this afternoon.'
" By this (Monday) morning's post at 11.0 a.m. a letter arrived
to say that her aunt had passed away at exactly 4.45 p.m. on
Saturdav."
" [Signed] W. W. Grundy."
In response to our request Professor Grundy obtained the follow-
ing statement from his sister-in-law :
" Being away from home and on a holiday with relations during
Nov. last,—I was sitting by the fire on the afternoon of Saturday
Nov. 15th, reading a book.
" I had been much troubled for the previous three days by bad
news from home of the serious illness of my Aunt, with whom I lived
and whose daily life had been part of mine for the last five-and -a-half
years, but I was prevented at the time by unr voidable circumstances
from returning to her, as I much wished to do.
" As I was sitting with my eyes on my book, the room being
brightly lit with electric light, and the open door-way also lit from
the light in the hall, I became aware that my Aunt was standing in
the doorway, silently looking at me right opposite and in a line from
my chair by the fire-side, I raised my eyes, with the astonished
exclamation '
Why ! there's Aunt Jane '
and at once the appearance
vanished.
" I made a mental note of the time '
a quarter to five,' and later in
the evening received a wire from her daughter to the effect, her
mother had passed away at 4.45. 1
that very afternoon.
" The whole incident, now I look back—cannot have taken more
time than about ten or 15 seconds, as far as I can judge, but in that
short space of time, tho' my eyes were not in the direction of the
doorway but fixed on my reading, I was aware of her presence as
clearly as I had seen her last, even to the dress she was wearing, and
it was not until I looked up, and the presence vanished that I realized
at all, it was a Spiritual Visitation.
" [Signed] Gwen Jones."
1
[Note by Professor Grundy : N.B.—This is inaccurate. The wire contained
no mention of time : merely stated '
This afternoon.']
36 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1931
Two confirmatory statements were also obtained ; one is from
Mrs Grundy, the sister of the percipient, and is dated 5 December
1930 :
" On Saturday, Nov. 15th 1930, my aunt who lived at Aberyst-
wyth, passed away and at 7.30 p.m. the same day I received at the
above address a telegram to that effect—not however stating the
time or hour of the passing.
" My sister, Gwen, who was staying with me at the time on hearing
the news asked '
Is the time given ? I had an idea that she passed
away at about 4.45 (p.m.) but I did not want to worry you then.'
" In a letter which arrived on Monday, Nov. 17th the time was
given as 4.45 p.m. on the Saturday. I certify the above to be a true
account.
" [Signed] J. H. Grundy."
The second corroborative statement is from Professor Grundy and
is dated 19 December 1930 :
" I hereby certify that both accounts to my knowledge strictly
correspond to the facts except that (as noted on her letter) my
sister-in-law was incorrect in stating that the time of death was
mentioned on the telegram. It was however mentioned in a letter
received on Monday morning Nov. 17th.
" I may add, for what it is worth one way or the other, that my
sister-in-law in another letter states that this is not her only experi-
ence of a vision.
" She once had an equally clear vision of an absent friend—then
and still happily alive with us.
" [Signed] W. W. Grundy."
It will be noted that the weakness of this case lies in the fact that
the vision was not narrated until after the receipt of the telegram
announcing the death. On the other hand, we have adequate
evidence that the exact time of the death was given before the arrival
of the letter in which the time was mentioned. It is unfortunate
that, as we are informed by Professor Grundy, the telegram was not
preserved, since proof that the time of the death was not mentioned
in it is thus absent. But it is difficult to suppose that Professor
and Mrs Grundy should be mistaken about such a matter so soon
after the event, especially as Professor Grundy repeats in a later
letter that he is quite clear on this point.
March 1931 Correspondence 37
CORRESPONDENCE.
An Indian Fortune-Teller's Trick.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—The following account of a trick played on me by an Indian
fortune-teller may amuse your readers.
According to his own account, he spoke no languages but English
(very imperfectly) and " Sanskrit " and had recently arrived from
South Africa. After telling me to write down my name, and reading
it when written, he examined the palms of my hands attentively and
then proceeded to give accurate details of my affairs {e.g. year of
birth, number of brothers and sisters, salary, etc.). Most of these
he could have learnt from the Civil Service List and from local
gossip, but not all. He also told me that I had an enemy in my own
office (a fairly true statement about anyone in any office). He
seemed to rely largely on " fishing " and I am glad to say appeared
to find it particularly unprofitable, as he sweated profusely, darted
piercing glances at me out of a pair of very shrewd eyes, and com-
plained several times that I was evidently much accustomed to
fortune tellers (which is however not a fact).
He then told me to wash my hands, which I did thoroughly, using
soap and a nail brush. He did not after that touch the palms of
my hands which I kept clenched and resting on my thighs. After
about five minutes in this position which he employed in reciting a
rigmarole (referred to comprehensively as, " I pray the God for
you "), he told me to open my hands, which I did and found the
figures 81, 111 printed (in what looked like printer's ink) across the
palm of my right hand.
He was ecstatic and rapturously announced that this number
referred to the number of " gold pieces " which I was to acqiiire in
June 1931, (had he the " Calcutta Sweep " in mind perchance ?).
After my first surprise, it dawned on me that a combination of
8 and 1 is the only combination that can be printed from a positive
and still make sense, whichever way you read it. I assumed that
he must have written the figures on his own finger in some sort of
invisible ink, impressed it on my palm during the hand-reading
episode, and that the hand washing acted as a developer (not an
instantaneous one, however, since there was nothing on my hand
visible when I dried them). But why a man with such a good trick
as that at his disposal did not learn to write figures in the negative
I cannot understand. Possibly this is the essential difference
between East and West.
To my great annoyance he rubbed out the figures from my palm
with one stroke of his finger. In spite of his obvious " fishing " and
general trickiness, I am convinced that this man displayed a certain
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1931
power of mind reading. The evidence is unfortunately too essentially
personal to be made known to others.
This fact of subjective conviction of the truth of supernormal
phenomena which apparently convey information much too private
to be proclaimed coram publico is one of the great drawbacks in
Psychical Research, it appears to me. Yet such evidence cannot be
neglected. Yours, etc.,
G. E. M. Miller.
REVIEWS.
H. A. Dallas, Human Survival and its Implications, pp. 70. Rev.
C. Drayton Thomas, The Mental Phenomena of Spiritualism,
pp. 136. Stanley De Brath, The Physical Phenomena of
Spiritualism, pp. 95. Helen MacGregor and Margaret V.
Underbill, The Psychic Faculties and, their Development,
pp. 91. Sir Oliver Lodge, Demonstrated Survival : its
Influence on Science, Philosophy and Religion, pp. 37. 8vo.
London : L.S.A. Publications Ltd., 1930. Price Is. each.
This is a useful set of handbooks for inquirers. Miss Dallas is an
investigator of long experience, and she gives much wise advice. It
is well to read extensively before seeking personal experience, and
when investigation is begun, critical scrutiny of facts and inferences
is essential. Stress is laid on the importance of spontaneous pheno-
mena such as those described in Sir William Barrett's book, Death-
Bed Visions, and many apposite quotations are given from the works
of Myers, Lodge, Richet, Crookes, and other workers. Consideration
is given to the various descriptions of other-side conditions, but it is
made clear that there are many possible interpretations of what
is said. On the religious side it is shown by extracts from letters
that in many cases the study of psychical phenomena has brought
many people back to the religious view of life, after a period of doubt
or disbelief ; and at the same time it is pointed out that there is
nothing in psychical research facts or inferences that is inharmonious
with present-day science. Miss Dallas's contribution, though written
from the standpoint of one who is convinced of survival and com-
munication, is a sane and balanced presentation of the case in its
general aspects and without the detailed evidence which appears in
other booklets of the series.
Mr Drayton Thomas leads up from non-spiritistic clairvoyance,
psychometry, subliminal writing, and the like, to mediumistic
phenomena in which the agency is claimed to be a discarnate human
being. He gives illustrations of the kind of phenomena observed in
each of the departments, and is specially interesting when dealing
with communications purporting to come from his father and sister,
March 1931 Revietvs
in a long series of sittings. Readers of Mr Thomas's other books, in
which more detail is possible, will remember that the evidence from
his communicators is extensive and weighty. On the side of inter-
pretation, Mr Thomas goes rather far when he says of the subliminal
mind that it is the " area wherein all forgotten memories are stored
"
(p. 13). All will agree that the evidence points to the conclusion that
subliminal memory is wider than supraliminal memory, but to
assume that all forgotten memories are subliminally stored seems
rather venturesome, though it has been frequently done since
T. J. Hudson set the fashion. However, no doubt Mr Thomas
wishes to be fair and even generous to opponents of the spiritistic
hypothesis, and he makes them a present of subliminal potencies
which are not proved but will come in useful. He rightly warns
automatic writers against taking their script seriously unless it
contains verifiable facts unknown to them ; and he discounts the
inspirational speaking which is so common at spiritualistic meetings
but which does not seem to go beyond the possibilities of the
speaker's own mind. Most of us will agree heartily that if the
speaker had prepared something with conscious attention it might
have been better than the " inspirational " sounding periods which
seemed to contain very little meaning. But Mr Thomas makes it
clear that he regards the belief in discarnate human agency as a
justifiable inference from some of the evidence.
The third booklet is a compilation of facts and conclusions
regarding dowsing, raps, telekinesis, hauntings, apports, direct
voice, materialisation, with quotations from Richet, Schrenck-
Notzing, Osty, Geley, Crawford, the Proceedings of the S.P.R. and
so on. Mr De Brath has had a wide experience of this side of the
subject, and is specially interesting when he describes his results in
psychic photography, when he took his own camera and obtained
extras which convinced him of some supernormal agency. He gives
a handy summary of the Margery case, particularly the thumb-print
evidence. On the philosophic side he regards the universe as made
up of matter, energy, and mind ; a human being is made up of body,
soid and spirit. The outcome of psychical research is an extension
of knowledge ; its results are not inharmonious with the already
known.
Miss Macgregor and Miss Underhill give practical advice to
beginners as to the method of development by sitting in circles, by
using the crystal, planchette, and the like. They do not say much
that will be new to our members, but the information, advice, and
warnings given will be useful to those who have not previously read
or investigated.
Sir Oliver Lodge points out the interesting and suggestive analogy
between magnetism and matter on the one hand, and life and matter
40 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1S3I
—mind and body—on the other. Magnetism can exist apart from
matter, but without matter it can make no sign to us ; we are aware
of electricity and magnetism by their effects on the matter of a
filament or galvanometer or iron filings and the like. Life and mind
manifest themselves to us through matter, but may exist apart from
it. Survival is demonstrated, though not yet recognised by "all
scientific men. When mind is recognised generally as so existing,
it will revohitionise biology and must have a potent effect on
science. Philosophy cannot explain the relation of mind and matter
by attending to matter alone. It concerns itself with the whole of
knowledge, and must take all the facts and conclusions of science
into account. Psychical evidence indicates not only survival but
the survival of memory and the full personality. The universe is
one, and the division between this life and the next is an artificial
one, due to our limitations. Experience in the next stage, though
no doubt still limited by an ether-body or space-body which is not
matter, will be as real as experience is now. Religion is the reaction
of an intelligent person to the conception which the person has been
able to form concerning the meaning and cause of existence (p. 26).
If minds are real, and we survive, the door is open to rational belief
in other and higher intelligences, to the existence of a spiritual
world. Christ was a lofty Being who came down to reveal more of
God to men. Psychical evidence proves the preamble of all religions,
as Myers said, and it is in harmony with the essentials of Christianity.
It is impossible to review adequately, in the space available, this
profound and far-reaching though simply expressed statement of
the case. Students must read it for themselves.
J. A. H.
T. K. Oesterreich, Das Madchen aus der Fremde. Bin Fall von
Storung der PersonlicKkeil. 8vo, pp. xii. 178. Beitrage zur
Philosophic und Psychologie (Heft 5) : Stuttgart 1929. Price
M. 7.50.
Professor Oesterreich gives a very lucid and exhaustive account
of a remarkable case of disturbance of the personality. It is the
case of a German girl of the lower classes who, after an almost tragic
life (the account of which in her own words, here faithfully repro-
duced, is pathetic in the extreme), was taken up by the Stuttgart
police in a helpless condition. She was unable to speak or under-
stand any language accessible to the combined philological and
linguistic resources of the authorities. She wore her hair in a pseudo •
Oriental style, and her whole appearance and behaviour (e.g.
manner of eating) gave a similar impression. She practised a pecu-
liar Buddha cult, unrecognisable as any known to students of the
subject.
March 1931 Reviews 41
Fortunately, after being doubtfully treated in a charitable insti-
tution, and driven from pillar to post by the police, she fell into
kindly hands. Her behaviour and beliefs were carefully studied and
recorded, and her language was taken down. For many months the
mystery was unsolved, making a nine days' journalistic wonder, and
might have remained unsolved but that one day the girl announced
in writing that she was German and could speak and understand
German. Then the psychologists came on the scene, and gradually
the whole of this strange case of dissociation was explained.
The peculiar interest of this case lies in the fact that it was possible
to trace back nearly all the elements of the girl's fugue to their
causes, and finally to diagnose the case as one of compulsion neurosis.
The dissociative assumption of a pseudo-Oriental role was the result
of a very strong desire, no doubt engendered by an unhappy home,
to run away with some gypsies who in her early childhood had put
up their tents for fourteen days near her home, during which time
she had spent many hours with them. There was also an anti-
German feeling, due to the contempt in which, as a German, she had
been held in her Swiss childhood. The mysterious Buddha cult was
clearly shown to have been the result of the grafting of a suggestion
(the showing of a statuette of the Buddha in the early days of her
highly suggestible dissociative condition at Stuttgart) on to a strong,
though unorthodox, Boman Catholic feeling. The incomprehensible
language was explained in the same way as that of Helene Smith :
it was a re-arrangement and distortion of her own German with a
few foreign elements picked up during her childhood in Switzerland.
Thus the words with which she addressed the Buddha were batuu
nustree=pater nosier. In the following also note the similarity in
sound : rische=Reis (rice), borum = Parfiim (perfume). In the next
examples we have simply artificial prolongation : iwengo = ich (I,
in dialect only the first letter is pronounced), ermio = er (he). Echoes
from foreign languages : ferrovjia = railway (Italian), beschtru =knife
(Spanish bisturi).
All this is of great interest to psychical research as presenting not
a few parallels with certain phenomena observed with mediumistic
Controls. But even more significant from this point of view are
certain negative aspects of this case. It does not appear that the
slightest trace of anything supernormal was observed in it. But is
it not a legitimate reflection that if this girl had fallen into the hands
of such spiritualists as those Helene Smith came into contact with,
instead of into those of people interested in the East, she would
probably have adopted some form of spiritualistic disguise (not
consciously, of course) instead of a pseudo-Oriental one ?
Professor Oesterreich is to be congratulated on a most able,
patient and useful piece of work. Theodore Besterman.
42 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1931
Einfiihrung in die neuere Psychologic, edited by E. Saupe. Oster-
wieck-Harz : A. W. Zickfeldt, 1931. Price M. 10.
To the new edition of the above work Professor Oesterreich has
contributed an article on psychical research, with special reference
to experiments conducted in institutions of university status. At
first sight this would appear to narrow the field almost to extinction.
But Professor Oesterreich has succeeded in covering the ground
fairly exhaustively by including accounts of work done by professors
outside their universities. Professor Oesterreich seldom commits
himself, but it is clear that he accepts the mental phenomena
(including psychometry) and also many of the physical phenomena.
Thus he appears to accept the genuineness of Willi Schneider's
phenomena (pp. 445-6), and to be very sympathetically inclined
towards the Goligher and Margery mediumships (pp. 447-8).
Professor Oesterreich also enters into theoretical discussions of both
the mental and the physical phenomena, but it appears to be
impossible to throw much light on the subject, in view of the very
small number of phenomena which are generally accepted even by
students of psychical research.
Professor Oesterreich laments the apparent impossibility of estab-
lishing a German S.P.K., and puts it down to lack of funds. The
desirability of such a society cannot be too strongly stressed. There
is in Germany no lack of able investigators and of material for in-
vestigation. It is difficult to believe that the necessary monies
would not be forthcoming if the investigators themselves could be
brought together. After all, in the early days of the S.P.R. the
membership was very small and the funds still smaller : it was the
single-minded and laborious co-operation of a group of investigators
which successfully established the Society on a permanent basis.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Psychic Research, November 1930.
In Proceedings for May 1929 (xxxviii. 399-408) I published a
review of the Margery cross-correspondences, in which I criticised
at some length the account of them published in Psychic Research
by Dr Richardson. After an interval of eighteen months Mr Bligh
Bond has printed in the present issue an article entitled " Varieties
of Cross Correspondence," in which he states that my criticisms are
the only ones " remaining until now unanswered " ; and he then
proceeds to enumerate certain points in my review.
First (I adopt Mr Bond's numbering) he says that he is unable to
agree with " the suggestion that there is a remote resemblance
"
between the S.P.R. cross-correspondences and those published in
March 1931 Notes on Periodicals 43
connection with the Margery mediumship. What I suggested was
precisely the contrary. I wrote (loc. cit., p. 400) :
" It is proper to
point out at the outset that the Margery cross-correspondences are
very different from those of the S.P.R."
Second, Mr Bond says that he has no interest in " the further
suggestion that criticism of work done outside the S.P.R. should be
as unsparing as that aimed at the work done within the Society
"
until " this writer [that is, Th. B.] applies exactly the same sort of
criticism [Mr Bond's italics] to the work of members of the S.P.R.
whose position with regard to their Society is the same as that of
our own group of '
Margery '
investigators in relation to the Ameri-
can S.P.R." This remark is meaningless under present circum-
stances, but I assure Mr Bond that if the time should ever come when
members of the S.P.R., however distinguished, print in our publica-
tions reports even remotely comparable in weakness to that published
by Dr Richardson of the Margery cross-correspondences, I shall
imhesitatingly apply to them " exactly the same sort of criticism
"
as I applied to the Margery phenomena.
Third , Mr Bond writes : "It must be obvious to any unprejudiced
reader . . . that it was Dr Richardson's aim so to order matters that
the question of bona fides should not arise. In this he succeeded."
What Mr Bond says was certainly " obvious " to me, since it was
the chief object of my review to emphasise this very fact and to
show that Dr Richardson had failed in his aim. Mr Bond, on the
other hand, dogmatically asseverates that Dr Richardson succeeded.
Mr Bond may be right, but my view, at least, is not dogmatic, but
was arrived at after a close analysis of the published evidence.
Fourth, Mr Bond quotes my statement (loc. cit., p. 402) that " it
is quite impossible, by any such procedure [that is, by the supposed
post-hypnotic influencing of Margery by her Control Walter], to
prove the independence of Walter " ; and he observes :
" No such
claim had been made on the basis of the evidence presented at that
stage. The criticism is therefore irrelevant." Mr Bond may be right,
but what Dr Richardson himself wrote in the report I was reviewing
(Psychic Research, xxii. 256) was that " if we really succeed in prov-
ing post-hypnotic influencing of Margery by Walter, we shall have
gone a very long way indeed towards proof of Walter's independence."
His fifth point Mr Bond divides into three parts : (a) is a reply
to my remarks on the obscurities in the original text in regard to
the time of a sitting and to the time of despatch of a telegram
reporting that sitting. Mr Bond states that the time of despatch
is shown on the original telegram. If that is the case I can only
regret that the original telegram has not been reproduced either in
the report I had before me or since, and that the information now
given by Mr Bond was not given in the original report.
44 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1931
Next, in (6) Mr Bond proceeds, in his own words, to administer
his final kick to " this very dead horse." In Dr Richardson's report
it was stated that an automatic script of five letters and one figure,
produced in a meaningless way on two sheets of paper, was, in the
telegram reporting that script ,
put together in such a way as to make
sense in itself and also in connection with scripts produced elsewhere.
I remarked on the strangeness of reporting the script telegraphically
" by starting with the lower part of the first sheet, proceeding to the
second, and concluding with the top part of the first." Mr Bond
replies that this was the order in which the medium (in trance)
wrote the message. This fact is strange in itself, but I will of course
accept Mr Bond's statement if it is so set down in the original
record of the sitting. And I reiterate my regret that this important
fact was not disclosed in the report I had before me (nor elsewhere
till now).
Finally, in (c) Mr Bond answers my suggestion that what is
reported in the article I had under review as intended for a multi-
plication sign might, if necessary, have been taken for a plus sign,
by declaring that the " diagram was not interpretable as the '
Plus
'
sign as he [Th. B.] would know if he had seen it." I accept Mr Bond's
statement, and once more reiterate my regret that I, in common
with other readers, was not given the opportunity of seeing a repro-
duction of the diagram, since it neither appeared in the report I had
before me nor has appeared since.
In short, in each of his specific criticisms Mr Bond complains that
I did not take into account evidence which he knows it was im-
possible for me to take into account, since it was, and remains,
unpublished.
Having concluded his five points Mr Bond adds further criticisms
under the heading " Some Modern Mediums," referring to my book
of that name. I am not here concerned, of course, with Mr Bond's
remarks on that book as such. But in his observations he refers to
two further criticisms of mine of the Margery cross-correspondences,
these criticisms also having originally appeared as part of the
above-mentioned review in Proceedings, and these I must therefore
deal with. Mr Bond complains that my statement with regard to a
particular sitting that " the box was opened at the sitting and the
lights turned out," is untrue, and he adds that I do not give the
reference to the source of this statement. I do not know why Mr
Bond should, on this particular point, quote from my book and not
from my original review, unless it is because in Proceedings he would
have found that I do give two exact references, and that at the
second reference Dr Richardson wrote :
" J. H. Brown had charge
of the box of cards. He removed the paper covering just before the
lights were turned off. ..." It is true that at the first reference the
March 1931 Notes on Periodicals 45
light is stated to have been first turned off, and if the word " and
"
in the sentence quoted can be held to imply a sequence of events,
then I freely admit that I was guilty of a half-inaccuracy, due to
directly contradictory statements by Dr Richardson.
Mr Bond sees fit to make great play with my criticism of the
suppression of the identity of Captain X, in connection with which
I pointed out that Captain X (on whom, a crucial cross-corres-
pondence experiment rests) is one and the same person as a gentle-
man on whom also the case for the Margery thumbprints largely
rests. This statement showed that I was aware of the real identity
of Captain X, and Mr Bond indignantly remarks that I was careful
" not to reveal it [the real name] to his readers." Captain X's name
was given to me by Dr Crandon during his visit to London in 1927,
and as the name had not been published in the meanwhile I clearly
had no right to publish it myself. What would Mr Bond have said
had I committed so flagrant a breach of confidence ?
I would point out in conclusion that Mr Bond has selected these
few points from the large number brought forward in my review,
and that he makes no attempt to answer the remaining points nor
to meet the case I made as a whole. Theodore Besterman.
Revue Metapsychique, November-December 1930.
This number begins with an obituary article by Dr Osty on
Professor Santoliquido, President of the Institut Metapsychique
International.
M. C. de Vesme has the beginning of a paper on stigmatised
persons in the past. The case of St Veronica Guiliana (born 1660)
appears to have been particularly remarkable in connection with the
investigation (partly purely experimental investigation) pursued in
1714 by a learned Jesuit, Father Crivelli. It seems to me to confirm
my standpoint that it is perhaps in the religious domain that we are
after all most likely to obtain striking evidence for supernormal
phenomena.
Questions connected with hypnotism are discussed by MM. Pascal,
Osty and Desoille. Dr Osty adduces statements made by very
competent investigators (Professor Richet included) which tend to
show that persons apt to be hypnotised are growing more and more
scarce. No explanation is offered.
M. Delevsky, a mining engineer, discusses the part possibly played
by suggestion at a distance in " scientific creation." As a rather
plausible instance he quotes the simultaneous researches on non-
Euclidian geometry of Gauss (Germany), Lobatchevsky (Russia)
and Bolyai (Hungary). Other cases are set aside as susceptible of
a simpler explanation ;
among them I miss the well-known instance
of Charles Darwin and A. R. Wallace.
46 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1931
" Mediumistic comedy" is the sub-title given by Dr Osty to the
recent sittings for physical phenomena with Stanislawa P. at the
Paris Institute, during which sittings the medium was thoroughly
exposed. (The late Dr von Schrenck-Notzing repeatedly experi-
mented with Stanislawa.) Very characteristic is the attitude of the
medium's husband after the exposure in regard to the money paid
to her for the Paris sittings (p. 526).
In the " Chronique " M. Maire is very hard on the protagonist of
the Vandermeulen apparatus (see above).
I have left for the end of my Notes Dr Osty's preliminary and
very brief statement as to the recent sittings at the I.M.I, with
Rudi Schneider. The ectoplasmic " phenomena," it appears, were
absent, the telekinetic very poor ; but on the other hand, the use
of infra-red rays revealed the presence at a certain distance from the
medium of an invisible substance, not capable of being photographed,
" localised in space," and rigorously depending on the medium's
psyche. We are promised further details later on. Meanwhile, Dr
Osty asserts, a process has been found revealing with " perfect
precision " and " perfect security " the movements of the invisible
substance in question, thereby making such a demonstration " as
cogent as the purest and simplest experiment in physics."
Bulletin du Conseil de Recherches metapsycliiques de Belgique, January
1931.
This number opens with another instalment of M. Rutot's mono-
graph on the Henri Vandermeulen avertisseur ; it also contains
papers giving the text of numerous messages of an absolutely non-
evidential character, among them communications from the " Spirit
of Jesus " and from that of a man who died 6358 years ago. The
paper containing the latter is entitled " Typtology with a scientific
tendency." The avertisseur, or, to be exact, its component parts,
can be commercially obtained, it appears. We are also promised,
before long (from " the other side of the veil ") a telephone which
is to enable the " entities " to communicate direct.
Zeitschrift fur metapsychische Forschung, October-December 1930.
The "phenomena" of Hilda Zwieselbauer are again described by
Herr Wratnik. It is almost superfluous to add that the whole looks
most suspicious and that Herr Wratnik is obviously one of those
witnesses whose testimony would not go far towards establishing
the genuineness of any marvels whatsoever.
Herr Rolf Reinisch narrates a series of incidents of various kinds
connected with the demise of his wife and her promise to " come
back." Professor Kasnacich pursues his account of sittings with
Fran Maria Silbert in 1919-1922. Herr Albert Langer has a long
March 1931 Notes on Periodicals 47
paper on " experiments " with Kordon Veri. The first three
instalments of the paper deal with card experiments which look
suspiciously like card tricks. As a precaution the medium was
blindfolded, whilst experience conclusively shows how insecure this
method of control is.
Dr Chr. Schroder has the beginning of a paper written in vindi-
cation of the claims of Lajos Papp and Tibor Molnar, the Budapest
-" psychitives " (sic) investigated by Mr Besterman (Proceedings.
xxxviii. 450-465) who is taken to task in a rather discourteous
fashion. Such methods are unfortunately very common on Dr
Schroder's part, but if this gentleman imagines that he enhances
the value of his criticisms by his rudeness, he is, I am afraid, mis-
taken. It may be worth noting that Dr Schroder has recently
married the daughter of Frau Rudloff, the medium with whom he
has long been associated.
Dr Carl Brack brings to a close a paper (begun in the September
number) entitled :
" Does there exist telepathic pressure at a
distance ?
" (Fernzwang). The question, as was to be expected, is
answered in the affirmative.
Dr. Chr. Schroder prints a further instalment of a paper (also
begun in the September number) describing alleged visions of the
future by a Frau Bartschat. The prophecies are given by means
of painting and automatic writing. Frau Bartschat is believed by
Dr Schroder to have thus foreseen such events as a mine explosion
id Silesia, a railway (or tramway) catastrophe in Buenos Aires, and
a typhoon in the Far East. I am afraid prevision of the future is
generally speaking both one of the most unlikely a priori branches
of psychical research and one of the most inadequately attested.
And yet we have in this domain an alleged case of a permanent
character, accessible to all and having undoubtedly preceded the
event to which it is commonly supposed to refer : I have in view the
seventy weeks prophecy in the Book of Daniel (Chapter 9). May I
suggest that a discussion of it in the Journal might prove very
fruitful ? For my part I should be ready to let some of the weightiest
moral and intellectual issues which mankind has to face, not to
speak of prevision in general, stand or fall with this prophecy.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, January 1931.
This number opens with a paper by Frl. Gerda Walther on the
Norwegian medium Mrs Ingeborg, daughter of Judge Dahl of Fred-
riksstad. This medium's specialities are automatic writing, book-
tests, sealed letter reading, etc., unfortunately also apports (a most
suspicious phenomenon). Incidentally we learn that the " spirits
"
manifesting through Mrs Ingeborg have repeatedly declined to give
a test-word previously agreed upon as a proof of identity, alleging
48 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mabch 1931
that there is in the Beyond a " law " which prevents them pro-
mising at sittings such Stichworte as tests. Hitherto we knew nothing
of so deplorable a " law." Apports are again to the front in a short
paper by Messrs C. Blacher and E. Keuchel, dealing chiefly with
the medium Eugen F.K. (Paleas).
Dr Siinner describes his sitting with Rudi Schneider in the late
Baron von Schrenck's laboratory in September 1924. The sitting
was a very successful one. Dr R. A. Reddingius of the The Hague
reverts to the experiments with thinking animals, which he explains
by telepathic " possession."
I omit mention of several other papers of minor interest. Let
me note, however, a titre de curiosite, the " plastic hallucinations
"
hypothesis as championed by Privatdozent Dr E. Barthel, in which
hypothesis this gentleman seeks an explanation of phenomena such
as haunting and apparitions of the dead. I confess I am doubtful
as to the adequacy of this explanation. P.-P.-S.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
No. 474.—Vol. XXVII. April 1931
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C.i,
ON
WEDNESDAY, 29 April 1931, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A DISCUSSION ON
POLTERGEISTS
WILL BE OPENED BY
Mr W. H. SALTER
AND
Mrs BRACKENBURY
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issuedfor this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served prom 4.30 p.m., to which Members and Associates are
invited.
50 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1931
NEW MEMBERS
Bret, Br P. Thomas, 23 Avenida Cinco de Outubro, Lisbon, Portugal.
Findlater, J. W., Aydon, Cutenhoe Road, Luton, Beds.
Forrest, Mrs L. W. R., Holkham, Wimbledon Common, Surrey.
Editor, " Luce E Ombra," Via Carducci 4, Rome, Italy.
Murrell, Mrs A. W.s 7 Lawford Road, London, W. 4.
North, Sidney V., Ousedale House, nr Lewes, Sussex.
Pickard, Mrs Fortescue, 51 Cornwall Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Sweeney, Hubert S. P., 3 Plowden Buildings, Temple, London, E.C.4.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 280th. Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Thursday, 26 February 1931, at 2.45 p.m.,
Mr J. G. Piddington in the chair. There were also present : The
Earl of Balfour, Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P., Mr W. R. Bousfield, K.C.,
Miss Ina Jephson, Mr G. W. Lambert, Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr Sydney C. Scott, Mrs Henry Sidgwick,
Mr S. G. Soal, and Dr V. J. Woolley ; also Mr Theodore Besterman,
Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
The 281st Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Thursday, 26 February 1931, after the Annual
General Meeting, Sir Oliver Lodge in the chair. There were also
present : The Earl of Balfour, Miss Ina Jephson, Mr G. W. Lambert,
Mr J. G. Piddington, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr Sydney
C. Scott, Mrs Henry Sidgwick, Mr S. G. Soal, and Dr V. J. Woolley ;
also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
Dr Walter Franklin Prince was re-elected President of the Society
for the year 1931.
Mrs Henry Sidgwick and Mr W. H. Salter were re-elected Hon.
Secretaries ; Dr V. J. Woolley was re-elected Hon. Research Officer ;
Mr W. H. Salter, Hon. Treasurer ; and Mrs W. H. Salter, Hon.
Editor.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication : The Earl of Balfour, Sir
Oliver Lodge, Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr J. G. Piddington, Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs Henry Sidgwick, Mr W. Whately Smith, and Dr V. J.
Woolley.
April 1931 Meetings of the Council 51
House and Finance Committee : Miss Ina Jephson, Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr Sydney C. Scott, and Dr V. J. Woolley.
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were elected for
the year 1931 as follows :
Corresponding Members : Professor Henri Bergson, President
Nicholas M. Butler, Dr Max Dessoir, Professor Dr Freud, Professor
Pierre Janet, Dr C. G. Jung, Count Carl von Klinckowstroem,
Maurice Maeterlinck, Professor T. K. Oesterreich, Dr Eugene Osty,
Dr Walter F. Prince, Professor Charles Richet, Dr Rudolf Tischner.
Honorary Associates : Miss H. A. Dallas. Frederik van Eeden,
M.D., Rev. A. T. Fryer, David Gow, Edward Grubb, J. Arthur Hill,
Professor J. H. Muirhead, Miss F. Melian Stawell, Dr A. Tanagra,
The 282nd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 18 March 1931, at 3 p.m., Mr J.
G. Piddington in the chair. There were also present : The Earl of
Balfour, Mr W. R. Bousfield, K.C., Miss Ina Jephson, Dr T. W.
Mitchell, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs Henry Sidgwick, Mr S. G. Soal, and
Dr V. J. Woolley ; also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and
Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
The Report of the Annual General Meeting was read and accepted.
Eight new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The following were co-opted as Members of Council for the year
1931-1932 : Dr C. D. Broad, Dr William Brown, Mr J. Arthur Hill.
Professor Julian Huxley, The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E.,
Mr W. Whately Smith, and Mr S. G. Soal.
Professor Dr Hans Driesch was elected a Vice-President of the
Society.
Warm thanks were accorded to Mr Scott for the trouble he had
taken and the expense he had saved the Society in connection with
a change in their tenants, and for general legal advice.
Thanks were accorded to Mrs Currey for her generous gift of books
to the Library.
Permission was given to M. C. de Vesme to quote two cases from
the Journal, vols, iii and viii.
The Council heard with regret of the death of M. Sage, who had
been an Hon. Associate of the Society since 1901 and had done much
useful work for the Society. They expressed their sympathy with
M. Sage's family in the loss they had sustained.
The Monthly Accounts for January and February 1931 were pre-
sented and taken as read.
52 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1931
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING.
[This Report has been approved by Sir Oliver Lodge, the Chairman
of the Meeting.]
As mentioned in the Journal for March, time did not permit, in that
issue, of more than a very brief note of the Annual General Meeting
held on 26 February 1931, with Sir Oliver Lodge in the chair.
The following Members were also present : Mrs Baldwin, The Rt
Hon. The Earl of Balfour, Mr F. Barlow, Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P.,
Mr Theodore Besterman, Mrs Theodore Besterman, Mr W. R.
Bousfield, K.C., Mrs Brackenbury, Mr G. B. Brown, Mrs Carpenter,
Miss Carruthers, Lady Currie, Mr De Brath, Mr B. W. A. Dickson,
Mrs B. W. A. Dickson, Mr E. J. Dingwall, Mrs E. J. Dingwall, Mr
J. R. K. Duff, Dr C. J. Earl, Mrs F. V. Enthoven, The Hon. Everard
Feilding, Mr C. B. Fernald, Mr J. A. Findlay, Miss Fleming, Mr N. C.
Fonnereau, Mrs Frith, Mr H. Gatliff, Miss Gibbes, Mrs A. P. Goldney,
Lieut.-Colonel E. F. Gordon-Tucker, Dr Hester M. Henderson, Mr
H. L. Hervey, Miss Boucher James, Miss Ina Jephson, Baroness de
Kakucs, Mrs Kingsley, Mr G. W. Lambert, Mrs Leaning, Mr W. A.
Legg, Mrs Lloyd-Jones, Mr C. A. Moss, Mr A. W. Murrell, Mr A. E.
Odell, Mr A. S. Owen, Miss Parsons, Miss M. Phillimore, Mr J. G.
Piddington, Mr E. M. Preston, Mr Harry Price, Mr C. E. Bechhofer
Roberts, Mrs Robertson, Mr F. J. Romanes, Dr Montague Rust, Mr
W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr Sydney C. Scott, Mrs Henry
Sidgwick, Mr W. S. Montgomery Smith, Mr S. G. Soal, Miss F. M.
Sterling, Miss M. Swainson, Lieut.-Colonel F. G. Talbot, Miss E. W.
Taylor, Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, Mr N. H. Vinen, Miss Margaret
Wallace, Mr M. West, Miss R. Wilson, Mr S. R. W. Wilson, and
Dr V. J. Woolley.
The Secretary having read the notice convening the meeting,
Sir Oliver Lodge said that the Annual Report of the Council and the
audited Statement of Accounts had already been circulated to
Members, and he proposed that they should be taken as read. This
was agreed to.
Treasurer's Statement.
The Hon. Treasurer, making the usual financial statement, said
that he proposed to be brief as the meeting had much other business
to transact. The Society had ended the year 1929 with a very
small balance in hand, and even so had had to defer payment of a
printers' bill then due, amounting to nearly £300. It ended 1930
with a credit balance in the General Fund of £87, without any out-
standing accounts. During the year the Society had received a few
windfalls, but even apart from these the Society had improved its
April 1931 Annual General Meeting 53
position to the extent of about £90, and in view of the world-wide
economic depression he thought that this was a most satisfactory
result.
The main cause of the saving was the improvements carried out
by Mr Besterman in the preparation and printing of the Journal and
Proceedings. The quantity of matter contained in Proceedings
during the last year was rather below the average, owing to the fact
that some papers which might have been printed in 1930 were not
ready for issue until 1931 ; the coming year would redress the
balance.
The Society sent three representatives to the International Con-
gress at Athens, and not a penny of the cost of sending them fell upon
the funds of the Society. In view of this fact, he thought that
members might be more ready to buy copies of the Transactions,
which had been published by the Society on behalf of the Congress
organisation ; so far, the sales in this country had been somewhat
disappointing, though there was no reason to anticipate that any
charge would eventually fall on the Society's funds for this publica-
tion.
By the generosity of Mrs Frederic W. H. Myers the capital of the
Myers Memorial Fund had been raised to £1,000. The second
lecture under this foundation would be delivered by Dr T. W.
Mitchell in the course of the year 1931.
Summary of Chairman 's Address.
On the motion for the adoption of the Report, the Chairman made
a statement. He said the Society was passing through a critical
time, such as many Societies had to pass through. In some cases
there had been a split which did harm to the cause. It was not the
first time that there had been differences of opinion in the Society.
He referred to the disagreements long ago of such men as Alfred
Russel Wallace and Stainton Moses, who were annoyed with what
they considered the slowness and scepticism of the Society.
He did not in any way wish to minimise the present dissatisfac-
tion. The grounds of complaint seemed to be chiefly two, first
rudeness, second inertia. Taking them in order, he had been struck
himself with the comparatively curt manner in which questions were
sometimes answered at meetings, as contrasted with the polite
methods of the old days. Some questions might be foolish, but it
was always possible to discover some ground on which useful informa-
tion could be given, and the foolish part ignored. In particular,
however, he referred to the contemptuous criticism of foreigners and
their methods of enquiry. There was a good deal of scepticism
about ectoplasm ; and he knew that some people disliked the
54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research apeil 1931
pictures in Schrenck-Notzing's book. But ectoplasm was a name
devised by Richet as involving a minimum hypothesis to explain
certain physical phenomena such as telekinesis and materialisation.
It was not yet accepted : it needed investigation by biologists and
physiologists, and then its unpleasant character would disappear.
The activity on the Continent had greatly increased since the S.P.R.
was founded. It was not likely that eminent men should in their
reports come up to S.P.R. standards. If phenomena occurred in
their presence which they could testify to, they were apt to consider
that sufficient. They ought to be careful about their criticism of
eminent foreigners. Some of the critiques objected to in the Journal
might occasionally have been irritating, but their reviewer of foreign
periodicals, Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, a member of the
S.P.R. for more than forty years, was not only a good linguist, but
had had much experience in psychical research, and they could not
expect him entirely to suppress opinions he might form on some of
the articles he reviewed.
With regard to the inertia of the Society concerning physical
phenomena, they could not help scepticism. All they demanded
was that a phenomenon should be studied ; a student then had a
right to his own opinions. Mr Besterman was a student from whom
they hoped good things in time. On the whole it might be said that
physical mediums just then were or had been rather weak. The
experiments were not really under their control : the conditions
were often dictated, or had to be approved, by an intelligence
associated with the medium under investigation. Scientific men
would never put up with so unusual a circumstance. Some day a
really strong medium would be vouchsafed to them, and then the
scepticism might be an asset.
Concerning Mr Price's proposal, the Chairman said he wished to
speak respectfully of Mr Price, who had devoted time and energy to
the investigation, and was an expert conjurer. But his methods
were different from those of the S.P.R. He attained a certain
amount of publicity, and called his privately managed laboratory a
" National Laboratory." Moreover he seemed in impulsive haste :
for instance, he circulated members generally on a proposal that had
been submitted to the Council, and while it was still sub judice.
The members voted without understanding the exact terms of the
proposition.
The Society must adhere to its ancient methods, which had already
contributed so greatly to its prestige. At the beginning the Society
received the interest of many eminent Victorians, for instance,
Tennyson, Gladstone, and Ruskin. It had attracted distinguished
names ; and the atmosphere in which it began was very different
from the atmosphere now, as could be illustrated by a quotation
April 1931 Annual General Meeting 55
from The Observer of 1882 (22 October), reproduced by Mr Bester-
man on page 120 of bis paper to the Athens Congress. Its prestige
on the Continent was illustrated by a letter from Professor Driesch
printed elsewhere in this number. It had some forty volumes of
Proceedings to its credit, and it was worth preserving. Members
could destroy the Society if they chose, and release the Council from
their work and pecuniary sacrifice. The work would continue
whether in the Society or otherwise. Much more than was known
had all along been done privately, sometimes with positive results
and sometimes not, and much expense had been incurred by indi-
viduals. The apathy of the Society was only apparent. There
were times when rapid progress on doubtful ground would be in-
judicious. " They also serve who only stand and wait."
The Chairman then invited questions and discussion.
Mr Dingwall commented on the small sum in the accounts devoted
to research. It was pointed out in reply that many other items on
the expenses side of the Society's accounts in fact covered expendi-
ture on research, and also that, as had always been the case in
the Society's history, a great deal of research work was done by
members at their own expense.
Mr Drayton Thomas thought that the Society might train its
own mediums, and also suggested that experiments in hypnotism,
which had played a large part in the earlier history of the Society,
should be revived. Miss Jephson pointed out, in reply to the former
suggestion, that for several years the Society had carried on a series
of experiments in telepathy and clairvoyance with a large number
of persons claiming to have supernormal faculties.
Mr Findlay said that in his opinion the Society threw away
useful opportunities for investigation. About eight years ago,
having had sittings in Glasgow with Sloane, whom he regarded as a
medium above all suspicion, he had offered to the Society to bring
Sloane to London at his own expense for investigation, provided that
the Society would engage Sloane as caretaker. The Society had
however—he thought unreasonably—refused on the ground that it
was undesirable to allow a medium free run of the premises at all
hours of the day and night. Sir Ernest Bennett said he had had
some experience of Sloane and could not agree with Mr Findlay's
estimate of him. Dr Woolley thought that the Council's objection
to having a professional medium as caretaker was justified.
Mrs Kingsley referred to a private conversation with Mr Bester-
man, in which, according to her account, Mr Besterman had said he
would never advise any one to have sittings with mediums because
he thought it was dangerous. Mrs Salter said that at one time she
used regularly to see people at the Society's Booms, and there were
many occasions when she had given advice, which might have been
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1931
(erroneously) reported in that way ; it was not always wise to
recommend sittings with mediums for some people and in some
circumstances. The subject having been further dealt with by
Mr Bechhofer Koberts, Mr Besterman said he did not accept Mrs
Kingsley's version of the incident ; it was not reasonable in a meeting
of that kind to quote, divorced from its context, what was said in a
private conversation.
The Chairman then moved that the Beport and Accounts be
accepted, and this was carried nem. con.
The Chairman then read the names of the six members of Council
who retired in rotation and offered themselves for re-election. No
other candidates having been nominated, he declared the retiring
members duly elected. Their names are as follows : Mr G. W.
Lambert, Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter,
Mr Sydney C. Scott, and Mrs Henry Sidgwick.
The auditors, Messrs Hartleys, Wilkins, Avery and Flew, were
elected for the year 1931.
Mr Dingwall then moved the following Besolution :
" That this
Meeting views with grave concern the decline in the prestige of the
Society both at home and abroad, and is of the opinion that a change
in the administration is desirable." He prefaced his remarks by
saying that although he moved a Besolution he did not intend to
have it put to the vote. He agreed with Sir Oliver Lodge that
politeness and energy were desirable ; he was not concerned with
these matters, but with the question of honesty and competence.
As regards honesty he adversely criticised the sending out of proxy
forms with an accompanying circular before the Annual General
Meeting of 1928, which he said had been done at the Society's
expense. He also criticised the way in which the new Articles of
Association were passed, and he commented at length on what he
said were inconsistencies in certain statements as to whether Mr
Besterman proceeded to Budapest in 1928 as the Society's representa-
tive or not. Opposite statements could be found in a letter written
by Mr Besterman's lawyers to the founder of a psychical Society in
Budapest, Mr Bothy, and in what he claimed and reported to
Mr Bothy that Mr Salter had said to him (Mr Dingwall) during an
interview in October 1929. On the question of competence Mr
Dingwall criticised a passage in an article by Mr Besterman in The
Link, and a case of premonition recorded in the February Journal.
Mr Guy B. Brown formally seconded the Besolution.
Mr Drayton Thomas, Mrs Goldney, and one or two other Members
criticised the action of the Council in inviting Members to fill up
proxies in the Council's favour without circulating copies of the
Besolutions.
In reply it was pointed out that since the Besolutions contained
April 1931 Annual General Meeting 57
what in the opinion of the Council were in substance mis-statements
of fact, the Council were on that ground unwilling to give them
unnecessary publicity.
Miss F. M. Sterling said that in her experience it was customary for
governing bodies to ask for proxies in their support simply as a
matter of confidence, and she was quite prepared to support the
Council on that basis. The names sent out on the proxy form were
in her opinion a sufficient guide to Members.
Mrs Dingwall having also spoken, Mr Salter in reply said that the
discrepancy alleged by Mr Dingwall was to be found between a letter
written by Mr Besterman's lawyers, and statements said to have been
made by Mr Salter to Mr Dingwall at an interview, after which
Mr Dingwall wrote a letter to Mr Rothy, a portion of which had been
read. Mr Salter had himself written neither of these letters, and one
of them he had never seen. For the general purport of the lawyer's
letter, the intention of which was to keep Mr Rothy's attack on
Mr Besterman within the bounds of decency, he took full respon-
sibility, but not for its verbal inspiration. For the second letter,
Mr Dingwall's letter to Mr Rothy, he took no responsibility what-
soever. It was not written with his knowledge or approval, and did
not fairly represent what he had said to Mr Dingwall at the inter-
view in question. There was no doubt as to the capacity in which
Mr Besterman went to Budapest, though there might be some
difficulty in defining in a few words the extent to which he repre-
sented the Society.
Mr Salter then described the situation arising out of Mr Bester-
man's report of his sittings in Budapest, the correspondence with
Mr Rothy, and Mr Dingwall's intervention in the dispute. He also
dealt with other matters raised by Mr Dingwall, pointing out that
the circular inviting proxies in 1928 had not, as Mr Dingwall had
suggested, been sent out at the Society's expense.
Mr Dingwall then said that he proposed to withdraw his motion,
but several Members protested against his being allowed to do so in
view of the nature of his opening speech. The Chairman then put
the motion to the vote by a show of hands. There appeared for the
motion 7 votes ; and against the motion, practically the whole
number of other Members present.
The Chairman declared the motion lost by an overwhelming
majority.
Mrs Goldney then moved the following Resolution :
" Resolved
that this meeting approves of the amalgamation, proposed by Mr
Harry Price and supported by an overwhelming majority of S.P.R.
voters, of the National Laboratory of Psychical Research with this
Society ; and requests the Council to appoint a Committee to discuss
the details of the suggested plan with the Administration of the
58 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April i
(
j3I
National Laboratory." She explained in some detail the circum-
stances under which the proposal for the amalgamation of the
National Laboratory of Psychical Eesearch with the Society had been
laid before the Council and as to how the voting papers issued by
Mr Price had been circulated to Members and Associates. She
explained however that the circumstances as regards the National
Laboratory had fundamentally changed since the proposal was made.
Mr Price had now acquired new premises which would accommodate
his Library and apparatus, so that no question now arose of their
being moved to the Society's premises. Moreover, the membership
and general organisation of the National Laboratory was being
reconstituted.
Mr Price seconded the Resolution and said that, if he individually
were considered any obstruction to the amalgamation, he was willing
to delete himself entirely from any scheme.
A further discussion followed, in which Lord Balfour, Mr De
Brath and Mr Bousfield took part. In the course of this discussion
it was suggested that, in view of the changed circumstances, the best
course would be for Mrs Goldney to withdraw her motion and for
Mr Price to submit further proposals to the Council. Dr Woolley
expressed the hope that the new proposals would be sufficiently
detailed to enable the Council to deal with them.
The motion was accordingly withdrawn by general consent ; and
the meeting adjourned.
Professor Hans Driesch and Dr Walter Franklin Prince, to whom,
as the leading representatives of psychical research on the Continent
and in America, copies of Mr Dingwall's Resolution had been for-
warded, sent to the Council the letter and cablegram which are
printed below.
The Council wish to thank the 234 Members of the Society who
sent proxies in support of the Council as a vote of confidence.
Letter from Dr Hans Driesch
12 February 1931.
May I ask you to bring what follows before the Annual General
Meeting of the S.P.R. to be held on February 26th.
The London S.P.R. , in my opinion, is not only the first in time but
also the first in rank of all Psychical Societies existing. And this is
not my personal conviction only, it is the conviction of all those who
are interested in Psychical Research in a critical way. I regard it as
a great honour to have been president of the S.P.R., and I know that
all scholars of foreign countries, who have been presidents, are think-
ing in the same way.
April 1931 Annual General Meeting 59
Psychical Research, if it intends to be really scientific, must
always follow the old method of the scholastics that " entia non sunt
creanda praeter necessitatem." In other words : it must proceed
slowly and very carefully. For our subject is the most difficult and
complicated of all subjects of science.
I repeat what I have said in the Congress at Athens : Better reject
99 genuine cases for lack of good conditions, than accept one single
case as true which is not genuine but fraudulent.
We always have (and probably shall have) two classes of enemies :
the dogmatic sceptics, few in number at the present day, and the
" believers "
—the second class is the more dangerous one.
[Signed] Hans Driesch,
Dr phil., Dr med., LL.D.
Cablegram from Dr Walter Franklin Prince.
20 February 1931.
Prestige Society not declined in America save few members con-
fused by one sided communication from England occasional com-
plaints for years from correspondents here and abroad that standards
too rigid fewer that too lax.
W. F. Prince.
A NOTABLE BOOKTEST OBTAINED AT A SITTING WITH
MRS LEONARD.
By Theodore Besterman.
The following booktest is a very good one evidentially and presents
some unusual and interesting features. I have therefore thought it
useful to report and analyse it in some detail.
In the relevant extract from the sitting, which appears in the left-
hand column below, passages in which Feda appears to be quoting
the communicator (Mrs Irving) are placed in inverted commas.
Recent investigations into the modus operandi of Mrs Leonard's
trance phenomena appear to make it desirable to bring out this
distinction. Words in round brackets were spoken at the sitting by
Mr Irving. Editorial comments in the text are in square brackets ;
those distinguished in addition by my initials show variations
between Mr Irving's record and mine. The punctuation and division
into paragraphs have of course been supplied by me.
60 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Apkil W31
Extract from a sitting with Mrs Leonard on 27 January 1931.
Sitter : Rev. W. S. Irving. Recorder : Theodore Besterman.
Notes by Th. B.
[1] I had arranged to act as
notetaker for Mr Irving at two
Leonard sittings, on 27 and
29 January 1931. On the
afternoon of the 26th Mr Irving
asked me to put a book into a
box with a view to a booktest.
That evening I did so, taking a
book at random from my shelves
and putting it into an attache-
case, which, of course, remained
in my flat. Mr Irving intended
to mention this arrangement to
his communicator at the sitting
of the 27th, with a view to a
booktest on the 29th. But at
the very beginning of the former
sitting, immediately after the
usual greetings, Feda spoke as
shown in the next column. (The
idea of putting a book in a box
for test purposes was first sug-
gested to Mr Irving by his com-
municator through Feda on 21
November 1929 ; but the method
of doing so was different from
that used in the present case ;
and the medium had no reason
to anticipate that such a test
would be tried on this occasion).
The book I had put away was,
as I discovered before putting it
into the box but after having
chosen it at random, the second
volume of the 1907 impression of
The Poetical Works of Alexander
Pope, edited by G. R. Dennis, in
Messrs Bell's Aldine Edition of
the British Poets (London). The
covers are a vivid red, very close
to the colour of the covers of
[Feda :] [1] Dora says I have
to ask you a question here be-
cause of that little problem of
not being sure, not being sure, as
to what is present or immediately
past or immediately future. I
want to know have you been do-
ing anything with red books
[book. Th. B.] thinking of books
[book. Th. B.] with rather partic-
ularly vivid shade of red on the
cover or covers ? You need not
answer particularly (I don't
know) but she had to tell you
that. It was in the form of a
question in case you remembered
having seen one, after. Let him
write it ! [repeated 6 times].
Wait a minute, Dora !
" Well,"
she says, " I have an impression
of a red book. I see you looking
at it.
April 1931 Notable' Booktest at Sitting with Mrs Leonard 61
[2] It's about a medium size.
I should say it might have 250 to
300 pages, which I s'pose you'd
call a medium size." Now, wait
a bit
!
[3] "I feel that you are going
to see this book, I think you're
going to. I don't think that it is
a book that you have used, I
don't think it is a book that you
have used. That's right ! I see
you with it in your hands, but I
feel that as you take it in your
hand, you take it from someone
else's hand. I feel the recent
touch of another [someone else's.
Th. B.] hand on it.
[4] This book is not a treatise
on psychical " treatise, not tor-
toise " on psychical matters, but
it touches on them. I feel
throughout the book various
touches of a psychical kind."
Wait a minute !
Hans Driesch, Mind and Body
(London 1927), but smooth and
therefore more vivid than the
latter.
[2] The volume is of medium
size, i\ in. x7 in., and has 323
pages, plus vii preliminary pages.
[3] It is true that Mr Irving
had not seen the book, that he
was going to see it, that he after-
wards took it from someone else's
hand (mine), and that it had the
recent touch of another hand on
it (mine again, from the previous
evening).
[4] It is a volume of poetry,
but frequently touches on psy-
chical matters. The first poem
in the volume is the Elegy to the
Memory of an Unfortunate Lady,
which begins (p. 1) :
What beckoning ghost along
the moon-light shade
Invites my steps, . . .
One of the last (p. 313) is the
translation of the dying Ha-
drian's lines to his soul. There
are " throughout the book
"
various other " touches of a
psychical kind." For instance,
on p. 304 occur the lines (Ode on
St Cecilia's Day, IV) :
But when through all the infernal
bounds
Which flaming Phlegethon sur-
rounds,
Love, strong as Death, the
Poet led
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1931
[5]
" You're going to see this
book at once, at once, during the
next two or three days." Wait a
minute !
" Don't look for it. I
want it to happen naturally as I
have described to you." That's
right, described to you.
[6] Oh ! Oh ! Oh ! What's that
Dora ? On ? On the book ?
" On the book there's a funny
sign. It isn't a star, but its
rather shaped like a star." Dora !
It isn't a bit like a star ! No, it
isn't pointed ! A star's pointed !
Look, Mr Bill, I'll have to de-
scribe it. She says like a star,
this has got more like a curve.
[Feda draws in the air, and Mr
Irving's sketch of her gesture is
reproduced below in facsimile].
Fig. 1
More like what Feda thinks the
petals of a flower. All right,
Dora ! Dora says, " What I
mean is a more or less round
shaped thing, and it has either
points or what you might call
To the pale nations of the dead,
What sounds were heard, . . .
And cries of tortured ghosts !
But, hark ! he strikes the golden
lyre ;
And see ! the tortured ghosts re-
spire,
See, shady forms advance ! . . .
And the pale spectres dance ! . .
[5] I handed the book to Mr
Irving the morning after the
sitting.
[6] The sign in question is
Messrs Bell's mark, which ap-
pears on the spine of the book
and is reproduced below. The
description is very good, and the
outline drawing also given below
shows the peculiar aptness of the
expressions " like a star . . . more
like a curve," the " petals of a
flower," and the " scallops round
the edge."
It is not " just a little ordinary
design," that is, a mere ornament
Fig. 2 Fig. 3
without appropriate meaning. It
is a sign, a symbol, being Messrs
Bell's mark and alluding to their
name : hence appropriate only
to a book published by them.
April i (
j.31 Notable Booktest at Sitting with Mrs Leonard 63
scallops round the edge." Dora
says " This is not just a little
ordinary design, I feel it's a sign,
or symbol, specially suited to the
book. It has something to do
with the book."
[7] Wait a minute ! Oh ! "The
book itself seems to contain a
great many references to the
mind, mentality. Whatever page
I turned over I got something
about thought or mind.
[8] But I particularly noticed
eighteen, eighteen, page eighteen
eighteen, eighteen." Thatwasn't
Dora whispered, it was Feda.
" One eight, and on this page
eighteen there were words that I
think were rather beautiful
words, worth speaking about."
Bars, b-a-r-s, bars, Dora, b-a-r-s,
bars, bars, bars, not sheep's baas,
but bars like barriers. [An ir-
relevant witticism of thirteen
words, referring to Mrs Leonard,
is here omitted]. Dora says,
" Something to do with bar,
barriers, that I thought was very
true, and to a certain extent
would be applicable, applicable
to you." Mr Bill [Feda touched
Mr Irving] to you. Now ! Have
you got all that Mr Bill right do
you think ] (Yes).
[7] This is perhaps peculiarly
appropriate to Pope, who is more
concerned with the mind and the
reasoning processes of human be-
ings than perhaps any other of
the major poets. 1
It is perhaps
enough to say that in the present
volume appear the Essay on Man
and the Moral Essays, both of
which are full of reflections on
the mental faculties.
[8] Mr Irving is under the im-
pression that his communicator
has recently adopted a new
method of counting the pages in
booktests, that is, by counting
from the beginning of the book,
ignoring blank pages. There is
no definite statement to this
effect in the records of the sit-
tings, but the new method would
appear to apply to recent tests.
It is borne out by the present
one to the extent that the actual
p. 18 is blank, while the eigh-
teenth page on the new method is
p. 11, on which occur lines 187 to
217 of Eloisa to Abelard, which
treats, of course, of the famous
story of the two parted lovers.
The whole poem turns on the
bars or barriers preventing their
reunion, though there is no ref-
erence to bars or barriers on that
1
After completing this report I turned to Stainton Moses's Spirit-Identity
(London 1879) to refresh my memory of his booktests. There I found, at p.80,
that one of his tests referred to the following passage :
" Pope is the last great
writer of that school of poetry, the poetry of the intellect, or rather of the
intellect mingled with the fancy."
64 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1931
[9] Mr Bill ! Dora feels that
the place in which you'll see this
book is either a rather dark
room, a shaded room, or that
you'll be seeing it in the evening.
She gets the impression of shade,
of shade. " May I explain here"
she's awful polite " may I ex-
plain here that I have to be care-
ful I'm not picking up someone's
thought of shade or of this being
a dark room. I'm learning to do
so " 'she says " to differentiate,
to differentiate, between the
thoughts of someone about the
room, and my own thoughts
about it. I can tell sometimes
[here a voice said '
always ']'and
I think I can learn to do so
always." Wait a minute
!
" You're going there soon
"
L
Mr
particular page in so many
words. The whole poem, again,
is applicable to Mr Irving and
" Dora " as parted lovers, as Mr
Irving fully agrees. On the
assumed testpage (p. 11) occur
the lines :
Of all affliction taught a lover
yet,
"lis sure the hardest to for-
get !.. .
Unequal task ! A passion to
resign,
For hearts so touched, so
pierced, so lost as mine.
The statement that the passage is
applicable " to a certain extent
"
is true. For, although the lines
apply perfectly when taken out
of their context, it will be remem-
bered that in the context it is
not by the barrier of death that
the lovers are separated.
[9] I handed the book to Mr
Irving, on a dull morning, in the
back room of the Society's Lib-
rary, which is always a rather
dark room. It is of course true
that Mr Irving found the book
interesting and spoke of compar-
ing and examining it.
April i!)3i Notable Booktest at Sitting with Mrs Leonard 65
Bill, she says, " soon. It'll be
under circumstances in which
you can discuss the matter.
You'll be able to say '
Oh ! This
is interesting. I must compare
and examine this book, so and
so, so.'
"
The ungrateful task of attempting to estimate the statistical value
of this booktest must now be attempted. I will take it paragraph by
paragraph.
1. This is not an ordinary booktest, where the sitter is given
instructions to look in a specified place. Feda spoke of Mr Irving
doing something in the immediate past or immediate future (later
the immediate future was definitely given) in connection with a book.
This is true, but it cannot be given any value, since it would be true
of almost everybody at almost any time. The book was then described
as having a particularly vivid shade of red. I had great difficulty in
finding a book of a colour similar to that of the Pope ;
but, allowing
for all types of books, it may be very modestly estimated that one
book in five has vivid red covers. An examination of average book-
shelves will show that the proportion is actually much smaller.
2. No value can be attached to this, for, although there are very
definite odds against any given book being of medium size, the
estimate given was not literally correct.
3. The odds against this statement are considerable, since only a
few of the books from which booktests are usually given, whether in
Mr Irving's own house or elsewhere, would have the recent touch of
a hand on it. This might, however, be a reasonable assumption if
the medium were " aware " (see below) that a special kind of test
was involved. Let us therefore give the statement a modest value of
1 in 2.
4. A vast majority of books are not treatises on psychical matters,
and very few of them have touches of a psychical kind in them. Let
us say, to be moderate, 1 in 10.
5. No value ;
being a forecast, it would be impossible to prove
that it had been confirmed quite spontaneously.
6. This series of statements must be given a high value. A small
minority of books have any kind of " sign " on their covers. Only a
small proportion of this minority can be described as having " a
sign, or symbol, specially suited to the book." Many publishers have
no marks at all ; no publisher puts his mark on all his books ; and
only a few, such as the Oxford and Cambridge University Presses,
and Messrs Bell themselves, put their marks on a large proportion of
their books. A considerable proportion of all marks on books are
those of the University Presses, and most forms of these marks are
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1931
simply adaptations of the University arms. These, it must be
remembered, would not be " specially suited " to a book published
by the University Press, since the University arms of course appear
on all kinds of other objects. A very small number of books indeed
have other kinds of symbols on their covers (such, for instance, as a
wheel on a book dealing with engineering). Bookcase no. 17 at the
S.P.R. (which has been chosen as it contains miscellaneous books)
has 243 volumes on its shelves (February 1931). Eight of these, or
1 in 30, have some kind of symbol on their covers. But this pro-
portion is higher than it would be in a general library, since novels
hardly ever bear symbols, and of course there are no novels on our
shelves. However, let us give this statement a value of 1 in 25.
Of the various symbols to be found on the covers of books, I do
not think that Feda's description would apply to any but to this
particular one of Messrs Bell. It would not even apply to the other
forms of this firm's " bell " mark. It certainly does not apply to
any other sign that I can find on my own shelves or on those of the
Society or on the open shelves in the Reading Room of the British
Museum. The question, therefore, is what proportion of books bear-
ing any kind of symbol on their covers would bear this particular one
of Messrs Bell's 1 After a careful examination of the many thou-
sands of books in the various libraries to which I have access, I think
that this proportion would be very greatly over-estimated at 1 in 100.
The whole of paragraph 6 is therefore given a total chance pro-
bability of 1 in 2,500, which is undoubtedly extremely conservative.
7. Few books contain " a great many references to the mind,
mentality." Let us put it at 1 in 10.
8. In what proportion of books would the eighteenth page contain
so relevant a passage ? The proportion must clearly be very small,
and would be ludicrously over-estimated at 1 in 100. But there is
some doubt whether p. 11 is the one intended ; we thus have a
choice between two pages (11 and 18, though in the present instance
the latter happens to be blank). We ought therefore to halve our
odds ; but let us be on the safe side and divide by ten, thus obtaining
a chance probability of 1 in 10.
9. No value ; see 5 above.
We thus get a total maximum chance probability, by simple
multiplication, of 1 in 5 x 2 x 10 3
x 2500 = 1 in 25,000,000. It must
be remembered that every constituent of this figure has been greatly
under-estimated ; a true valuation, without prejudice either way,
would give us an even more remarkable figure. Even so, a chance
probability of one in twenty-five million trials drives us to the con-
clusion that some extra-chance factor operated to bring about this
result.
I have fully discussed these calculations with Mr Saltmarsh, who
April 1931 Notable Booktest at Sitting with Mrs Leonard 67
agrees that they are all very definitely on the conservative side.
He goes further and is of the opinion that paragraph 2, to which I
give no value, should be given a score of 1 in 2. On the method of
Messrs Saltmarsh and Soal1
and allowing for this view of Mr Salt-
marsh's, we obtain the following formula (for help with which I am
indebted to Mr Saltmarsh and to Mr Soal).
Score :
- 2(1 - 1/2) log 1/2 - (1 - 1/5) log 1/5 - 3(1 - 1/10) log 1/10
- (1 - 1/2500) log 1/2500 = 6-956
Standard Error :
s/2/2(l - 1/2) [log 1/2]
2
+ 1/5(1 - 1/5) [log l/5]2
+ 3/10(1 - 1/10)
N/[log 1/10]
2
+1/2500(1 - 1/2500) [log l/2500]2
= -630
Value :
Standard Error _ 6-956 _ ^
Score -630
The result on this basis is so immensely far above chance that it
goes beyond the ordinary probability tables, and would thus not be
expected to appear by chance alone more often than once in thou-
sands of millions of trials. It is interesting to see that a refined
mathematical calculation produces even more favourable results
than the ordinary method of simple multiplication.
It will be useful to emphasise one or two points which distinguish
this booktest. (1) The test was not, as is usual with booktests,
given from a specified place. In the experiment tried by Lady Trou-
bridge, where she selected a particular book for the purpose of a test,
Feda was informed of the experiment beforehand and was told where
the book had been put. 2
In the case of an experiment in which a
book was made into a parcel by a person not present at the sitting
the sitter's communicator was similarly informed.3
In the present
instance the absence of references to the place where the book was to
be found, in view of the medium's ignorance of the experiment it was
hoped to make, and in addition to the definite statements in para-
graphs 1 and 3, suggests an awareness by, we may say for convenience,
the medium, of an unusual circumstance in this aspect of the test.
This is the more striking since the test was given at the very begin-
ning of the sitting, thus ruling out any possible unintended leakage
from the sitters. It must also be remembered that, no place being
1
Proceedings (1930), xxxix. 266ff.
2
Mrs Henry Sidgwick, " An Examination of Book-Tests obtained in Sittings
with Mrs Leonard," Proceedings (1921), xxi. 300.
3
Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, Some Neiv Evidence for Human Survival (London
1922), p. 50.
(is Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1931
specified, the medium had the whole world of books to choose from,
poetry and mathematical textbooks, ledgers and detective novels,
tables of logarithms and Coptic dictionaries, any of which might
have been chosen, at random, as a test-book.
(2) It was the first time that a Leonard booktest has been given
from my flat, and my identity is still, to the best of my knowledge,
unknown to the medium. She could therefore have obtained no help
from these possible sources of information.
(3) It would be unreasonable to regard the statement that the
book " might have 250 to 300 pages " as more than a general indi-
cation of size, so that I do not regard the actual size of 323-330 pages
as a mistake. In paragraph 8 there is also some doubt, but this may
be our fault. Apart from these points every statement made by the
medium in connection with this booktest was perfectly accurate.
An attempt at interpretation must now be made. Some of the
information given was actively present in the minds of both Mr
Irving and myself. All of it was or could conceivably have been at
one time, in my consciousness. Hence it is impossible definitely to
assume the presence of more than thought-transference. At the same
time, taking a little less than the extreme view, it is difficult to
suppose that even in the remotest fastnesses of my subconsciousness
did I know what sentiments were to be found, not on the actual page
18 of the volume, but on an arbitrary page 18 calculated on a method
most distasteful to my bibliographical passions. To accept the
extreme view it would be necessary to suppose that when handling
this volume of Pope, which I have certainly had in my hands fairly
often, I noticed how many preliminary pages there were in the book
and which of them were blank ; and that this knowledge enabled me
subconsciously to work out that page 11 in the book, previously
selected owing to my recollection of the sentiment appearing on it,
should be given as 18 in order to give the statement the air of a
message from Mr Irving's communicator, since it is assumed that
this would have been the latter's way of giving the reference. To
this must be added that this supposed method of the communicator's
was unknown to me when I last opened the book before the sitting.
In short, it seems to me, even in the light of what we know about the
powers of the subconsciousness, that the attribution of this booktest
purely to thought-transference presents very great difficulties.
The question therefore arises whether any part of it is reasonably
capable of being regarded as evidence for survival or for clairvoyance.
Here we enter a region where idle speculation is least profitable. It
is enough to say that such knowledge as we possess seems to suggest
that clairvoyance is the more likely hypothesis, since the volume of
Pope had no associations with Mr Irving or with his communicator.
I therefore suggest that the least unlikely notion is that a telepathic
April 1931 Notable Boohtest at Sitting with Mrs Leonard 69
communication from the sitters directed the medium to the source
from which the booktest was to be taken, and that the test itself was
obtained by a clairvoyant perception. 1
It is only right to add that this opinion is not shared by Mr Irving
himself. To make this quite clear Mr Irving has kindly written the
following postscript :
" It is my view, and I think a not unreasonable
view, that the communicator was the clairvoyant, and that, having
made herself acquainted beforehand with the fact that Mr Besterman
had selected a book for test purposes, she chose passages from this
book suitable to herself and to me. The other booktests given at this
sitting were, I think, taken in the same way and with the same
method of counting pages. Although, in this particular case, there
is little in the material selected that can be said to point to the agent
being the surviving memory of one particular person, i.e. of my wife,
in some of the other cases of booktests taken from houses unknown
to me there have been what I consider definite signs of this in the
material chosen, so that to me it is simpler to attribute the present
test to the same possible agency."
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
The Monist, July 1930.
In an article entitled " Psychology and Psychical Research," Dr
F. C. S. Schiller discusses the relation of philosophy and psychology
to psychical research, and in particular the precautions which must
be taken in drawing conclusions from the phenomena.
In the author's view, the bankruptcy of philosophic psychology
leaves the coast clear for psychical research. But in his view the
difficulties in the way of effective psychical research are stupendous
and greatly exceed those which ordinary science has to encounter.
These difficulties arise from a bias due to an emotional element in
the mind of the observer. The hypotheses of psychical research
arouse an intense emotional reaction which produces an emotional
bias which may lead perfectly respectable and otherwise credible
witnesses to give false evidence. Hence it is not so much against
fraud and trickery that one has to guard, as against self-deception.
Another difficulty is that modern science has lost the conception
of " soul " as an efficacious principle. But, says the author, " We
have good reasons for reconsidering the assumption that '
soul
'
must be an inefficacious impotent '
epiphenomenon '
that has no
power over '
body '."
This article suggests to the reviewer that the author is particularly
free from either of the two kinds of bias which are most often
encountered. These arise from the materialistic complex and the
1
Cp. Mrs Sidgwick, op. ext., xxxi. 377.
70 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1931
spiritualistic complex. The materialist complex leads a careful
observer like Professor Richet to reject any theory which is incon-
sistent with his a priori view that " mind cannot function without
brain." This view-point of Professor Richet is a subject of an
article by the reviewer in the Hibbert Journal (April 1924) and the
materialistic complex has been discussed at length by the reviewer
in A Neglected Complex. It must suffice to say here that its effect
on the judgment is such as to turn aside the strongest evidence of
supernormal events or to provide fanciful explanations of them.
The bias due to a spiritualistic complex has equally to be guarded
against. It may lead to the acceptance of supernormal theories for
facts which are obviously open to explanation on normal lines. The
difficulty for psychical students is that they have to find their way
between Scylla and Charybdis so as to avoid both perils.
W. R. BOUSFIELD.
Zeitschrift fiir die gesamte Neurologie und Psychiatric, vol. cxix.
Under the title of " Uber die seelische Struktur einer '
Hellse-
herin,' zugleich em Beitrag zur Klinik der Halluzinose und zur
Psychologie der Denktatigkeit," Dr Fiinfgeld, of the Psychiatric
Clinic of Frankfurt University, analyses the mental structure of
Mina Miiller, a woman supposed by herself to be clairvoyant. After
a detailed account of her heredity and personal history, the writer
proceeds to an account of the investigation he conducted into her
clairvoyant claims. This part of Dr Funfgeld's report is lamentably
inadequate. First he wrote words (? common nouns) on slips of
paper, on which he then concentrated. In a second experiment he
fixed his thoughts on various objects in the room. In both cases
we are told that the subject completely failed to discover what Dr
Fiinfgeld was thinking of. But we are given no information what-
ever as to the number of trials made, as to the conditions under
which they were made, as to Dr Funfgeld's definition of a failure ;
in short, nearly all the details that are considered essential in the
report of an investigation into supernormal faculties are lacking.
(It is most convenient to retain the word clairvoyance, Hellsehen,
but it will be observed that Dr Fiinfgeld uses it very loosely to indi-
cate any kind of supernormal mental faculty.)
Next Mina M.'s claim to be able to foretell the results of horse
races was investigated. As a result the subject obtained thirty to
forty per cent, of success. Dr Fiinfgeld discounts this success on
the ground that racing experts customarily obtain equally good, and
even better, percentages of success. It may be so, but it is a state-
ment that could so easily have been tested that it should not have
been made without some evidence. I would suggest that the
forecasts in, say, six newspapers for the dates in question should be
April 1931 Notes on Periodicals 71
consulted, and the results compared with the subject's statements.
Unless newspaper tipsters are wiser in Germany than they are in
England, I should be surprised to find them able to give so large a
proportion of successful forecasts. Finally, the subject failed to
find a lost earring. From Mina M.'s general history and psychology
it seems very probable that her claims to the possession of super-
normal faculties are delusive, but as evidence for this these experi-
ments of Dr Fiinfgeld's, as reported by him, are quite inconclusive.
The remaining part of the paper is much more important. In it
the writer endeavours to ascertain how the subject arrived at her
conviction that she is clairvoyant. Dr Fiinfgeld rejects the view
that the subject is suffering from some serious mental disturbance,
and is also unable to find evidence for the presence of definite
hallucinatory trends (though it seems difficult to exclude this possi-
bility in the case of the voices heard by her). The chief elements
which Dr Fiinfgeld discovered in the subject's psychological make-up
which would explain the presence of her belief, are a general tendency
to paranoia, a pronounced incapacity for taking up a critical attitude
towards her own mental processes (evidence makes no impression
on her, the subjective feeling of " Tightness " overruling everything
else), and a remarkable capacity for putting together minute indica-
tions (what Dr Fiinfgeld conveniently calls Kombinationsfahigkeit).
These are the mental constituents which, as it were, provide the
mechanism of the subject's hallucinosis. But the driving power of
this mechanism Dr Fiinfgeld finds in Mina M.'s overweening
ambition (which is of course bound up with, or the cause of, her
paranoia). In connection with the subject's Kombinationsfahigkeit .
Dr Fiinfgeld gives an amusing account of the experiment in which hu
fixed his thoughts on objects in the room. The subject detected and
acted upon the very slightest movements of his head, eyes, etc., but
was so devoid of critical faculty that she followed these slavishly
even when Dr Fiinfgeld, having discovered what she was doing,
counterfeited these movements.
I have given only the barest outline of Dr Fiinfgeld's valuable
paper, but I have given enough to show once more how very greatly
it is to be desired that some mental medium with acknowledged
supernormal faculties should submit to psychological analysis. I
am strongly inclined to believe, from such observations as it has
been possible to make without formal analysis, that a genuine
mental medium would not show the same abnormal or even near-
abnormal traits as are shown by such subjects as Dr Fiinfgeld's.
Theodore Besterman.
Zeitschrift fiir Parapsychologie, February 1931.
The first article in this number is an elaborate and conscientious
account by Herr R. Lambert of some experiments with the clair-
72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1931
voyant Max Moecke. Herr Lambert thinks that in what Moecke
said to two of the sitters, the percentage of success was respectively
45 and 52 ; whilst in attempts by Professor Max Dessoir making
haphazard statements to strangers about their circumstances only
five statements in a hundred were correct. I am impressed by an
observer of Herr Lambert's calibre arriving at a positive conclusion ;
nevertheless I feel somewhat sceptical as to the general value of
such performances as Moecke's. We want names and dates, not state-
ments which like caps will fit many a head; we want also fewer mistakes.
Dr Wendler describes what he calls an attempt at levitation :
four persons put their forefingers under the knees and shoulders of
the person to be " levitated " and all the five breathe simultaneously
as deeply as possible twenty times, after which the experiment
succeeds quite easily. It does not succeed with an inanimate object
nor if the person who is the object of the experiment does not take
part in the deep breathing.
An account of some mysterious knockings occurring at Oppau,
in the Landeshut district in the presence of a nine year old peasant
girl is quoted from a newspaper. They seem to have created quite
a stir in the region, were observed by several persons occupying an
official position and gave rise to various hypotheses, including some
rather unexpected ones {e.g. underground water). There seems to
have been no exposure, but apparently the observers were unaware
that similar raps can be produced and have been produced by the
toes. A propos of this Oppau case similar incidents occurring nine
years ago at Oberspier are reprinted from another newspaper.
A dialogue " For or Against Spiritism " between two members of
the Berliner Aertzlichen C4esellschaft fur parapsychische Forschung
broadcast a few months ago, is reproduced, Dr Bergmann cham-
pioning the spiritistic hypothesis and Dr Schmidt the animistic.
Seeing that for the latter the authenticity, e.g. of materialisation is
beyond doubt it seems that this dialogue might have been made
much more instructive and Dr Bergmann's position much less easy
to defend.
The Baroness Kulmer of Vienna has the first instalment of a
paper on Baron Hellenbach (1827-1887) " as thinker, researcher and
philanthropist." Professor Blacher replies somewhat acrimoniously
to Prof. Anton Seitz's criticisms (in Phanomene des Spiritismus)
directed against some alleged levitations of the medium Frau
Ideler. Various " parapsychical " incidents narrated by Caesarius
von Heisterbach are quoted by Herr Wagner of Linz. Some
" critical remarks " on Heinrich Melzer's sittings in Holland and
Dr van Holthe tot Echtens reply are not calculated to favour the
hypothesis that the apports were genuine, but rather the reverse,
as was to be expected. P.-P.-S.
No. 475. -Vol. XXVII. May 1931
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. r,
ON
WEDNESDAY, 27 May i93i, at 5.30 p.m.,
WHEN A DISCUSSION ON
BOOKTESTS
WILL BE OPENED BY
Mr THEODORE BESTERMAN
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.30 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
E
74 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mat 1931
IMPORTANT NOTICE CONCERNING MEETINGS OF
THE SOCIETY.
Meetings of the Society will, from April 1931, be held monthly,
except in July and August. These meetings will provide opportunity
for the usual formal papers, and also for informal addresses and con-
versaziones. Notices of the meetings will be printed as usual in the
Journal, and it will be advisable always to consult these, as special
additional meetings may be arranged from time to time.
Members and Associates are particularly asked to note that all
future meetings (unless specific notice to the contrary is given) will
be held at 5.30 on the last Wednesday of each month. Tea will be
served from 4.30, to which Members and Associates are invited.
It will be observed that the months in which no meetings are to be
held are July and August, and not August and September, as
originally announced. It has been found that the new arrangement
will be more convenient for the majority of members.
OBITUARY.
Monsieur M. Sage.
We have to report with much regret the death of Monsieur M. Sage,
who had been an Honorary Associate of the Society since 1904.
Monsieur Sage was a valuable worker, enthusiastic, but at the same
time cautious and a good judge of evidence. He co-operated with
the Society in several interesting investigations. In 1908, for
example, he enquired on the Society's behalf into the " Alleged
Miraculous Hailstones of Remiremont " (Proceedings, xxi. 405) ; he
also contributed some valuable knowledge locally acquired to the
review of An Adventure (Proceedings, xxv. 353), and in conjunction
with Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo made some enquiries into
the alleged exposure of D. D. Home (Journal, xv. 274).
M. Sage was also of considerable help to the Society by making its
work better known on the continent, especially in France. He pub-
lished several books on psychical research, of which the best known
(published in 1902) is called Madame Piper et la Societe Anglo-
Americaine pour les Reclierches Psychiques and has been translated
into both English and German.
A SERIES OF MEDIUMISTIC STATEMENTS MADE TO FOUR
SITTERS.
The following case, which is a record of incidents occurring at sittings
with mediums, chiefly with Mrs Annie Brittain, has been sent to us
by Mr E. S. Thomas, a Member of the Society, to whom the various
May 1931 Mediumistic Statements made to Four Sitters 75
sitters are known, being connected with him by marriage. Their
names have been communicated to us, but pseudonyms are used
here.
The reader will be better able to follow the case in detail if a short
synopsis of events and persons is given first. Four sitters are
involved :
(a) Mrs Atleij, who had her first sitting with Mrs Brittain on 17
May 1929. One of the ostensible communicators was her daughter
Dorothy who had died in the previous March as a result of influenza.
(b) Mrs Grant, a niece of Mrs Atley, who had her first sitting with
Mrs Brittain on 23 August 1929. Mrs Grant's daughter Molly had
died in the previous June of severe head injuries resulting from a
motor accident.
_(c) Mrs Fowler, Mrs Grant's, daughter, who had her first sitting
with Mrs Brittain on the same day as Mrs Grant, but about two hours
later. It should be noted that Mrs Grant and Mrs Fowler sat anony-
mously, as did also Mrs Atley. The only reason Mrs Brittain had for
connecting the two sitters of 23 August was that their appointments
had been made by Mrs Atley. From a comparison of the statements
made at the three sittings, and especially the number of recurrent
names, it seems clear that the close connection between the sitters
was apprehended.
(d) Mr Grant, Mrs Grant's husband, who had a sitting with Mr
Glover Botham about 20 March 1930. Only one incident is reported
from this sitting ;
it is with sitters (a), (b) and (c) that the case is
mainly concerned.
The record printed here has been compiled from statements sent
to Mr Thomas by the various sitters, who took their own notes. It
should be observed that on several occasions clear and veridical
references seem to have been made to matters of which the sitters
had no normal knowledge at the time. This is a point of some
importance where the record of an independent note-taker is not
available, because inexperienced sitters—not able to write shorthand
—may without any intention to deceive record the points in a
statement which strike them as veridical rather than those which do
not The original documents of the case are in the Society's pos-
session.
Extracts from Mrs Atley'.s first sittinq with Mrs Brittain, 17 Man
1929.
J
[1]. Mrs Atley's husband accur- [1]. Details not recorded by
ately described—very tidy, aus- sitter. Correct name of late hus-
tere-looking—sitter's name given band,
correctly, and her husband's as
Ted, Teddy, or Edward.
70 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mat ism
[2] Some one with him called
Jim.
[3]. Sarah and Mary men-
tioned as with sitter's husband.
[4]. There is a girl (with Ed-
ward) with such a sweet face, and
a very beautiful disposition. I
feel she has not gone over long,
and hardly knows how to com-
municate. The name sounds like
Dorothy or Doris.
[5]. She says (regarding her
death) " I thought I was falling
asleep and my heart just stopped,
and I found myself here (and)
was just going to write to you."
[6]. She has a very sweet clear
laugh.
[7]. She says " I never thought
I would go first ; we always
thought C—d (husband) would."
[8]. (Dorothy is) looking after
little children who were arriving
over there, especially (those) who
have been unhappy on earth.
The name M— ie is given. I
can't quite understand what . . .
they want to give. Was there a
little child died ? Miscarriage or
something like it? There's some-
thing about a second child—was
another expected ?
[9]. Something about E—ie.
[2]. His brother, father of Mrs
W. Grant.
[3]. Two of his deceased sis-
ters.
[4]. A good description of sit-
ter's deceased daughter Dorothy.
[5]. She died suddenly and
quietly while convalescent from
pneumonia after influenza in.
March 1929.
[6]. True.
[7]. True ; confirmed by her
husband ; he died seven months
after her.
[8]. The sitter is great-aunt
of a M—ie wdio had a stillborn
child a month before this sitting.
Mrs Atley replied, " Oh no, there
was nothing of that kind," quite
forgetting (assuming she had al-
ready heard) the above news.
This incident (the reference to
M—ie followed the reference to
Dorothy looking after children. 1
It was only on re-reading her
notes much later that the mean-
ing struck her and she wrote to
M—ie's mother on 15 October
following. She cannot be sure
whether she had heard the news
at the time of the sitting or not.
[9]. The very uncommon name
of a (living) cousin of Dorothy's
was given, daughter of Susan
(see below).
1
On 20 October 1930 Mrs Davis, mother of M—ie and sister of Mrs Grant,
was told at a Spiritualist Church near Birmingham that a beautiful baby was
near her in spirit in charge of its nurse. Her thoughts turned to M—ie's
May l'jji Mediumistic Statements made to Four Sitters 77
Extract from Mrs Atley's second sitting with Mrs Brittain, 6 August
1929.
[10]. Molly is here ; she had
an accident, something to her
head. She sends her love to her
mother.
[10]. This was in answer to
enquiry about Molly, daughter
of Mrs Grant, who died after a
motor accident in June 1929. No
note of this incident was made at
the time by the sitter as sitting
was disappointing. But her letter
about it to Mrs Grant led to the
latter's sitting with Mrs Brittain.
Extracts from Mrs W. Grant's first sitting with Mrs Brittain, 23 August
1929.
[11]. A beautiful spirit named
Elizabeth, fond of you . . . glad
to pass over . . . died of cancer a
long time ago.
[12]. Fine face of a man . . .
fine features, deep-set blue eyes,
good forehead, small side-whis-
kers, dent in chin . . . says his
name is William.
[13]. There is John (sitter
could not place John and said
so), perhaps it is James, or a
little word like Jim ; and there
is Emily and Florence. Florence
is Emily and Jim's daughter.
[14]. Emily is not large any
more, and quite well and much
3
T
ounger ... A good manager.
[15]. Jim has blue eyes that
twinkle and a round face, merry.
[16]. Emily wants to talk and
Jim has taken Florence by the arm
and says, " Let her have it her
own way, we'll trot round a bit."
[11]. Aunt and godmother of
sitter ; true regarding cancer.
[12]. An accurate description
in all details of sitter's uncle,
Edward William Alley (see [1]
above).
[13]. Sitter's father was named
Jim (see [2] above), her mother,
Emily ; and Florence is a sister
who died young. The rest of the
family are all living.
[14]. She was rather portly in
later life and suffered in health
from the effects of a fall. It is
only partially true that she was a
"good manager," though she was
a woman of strong character.
[15]. True details.
[16]. Characteristic remark.
child and to her own old nurse (deceased). In answer to her question the-
voyante said in effect that the nurse was not old but young and beautiful and
Iter name was Dorothy. This statement is certified by Mrs Davis to be correct.
78 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mat 1931
[17]. There is another mother
much quieter than yours.
Is there a Charles ?
She is not like your mother,
taller and quieter . . . She gives
her love and says Charles and
Alfred both living have had a
difference of opinion . . . she
would like to see them friends
again.
[18]. Now Emily says, " She
isn't your mother and she has
had long enough."
[19]. She says when she passed
over Florence met her and she
soon got her health.
[20]. There is a Sarah and a
Mary and they are trying to send
a message to Ellen still living and
Elizabeth. There are three some-
how together.
[17]. Sitter's mother-in-law
evidently meant—a quieter per-
son and taller than Emily—as
Charles is her son, sitter's hus-
band.
True regarding Charles and
his brother Alfred at the time.
[18]. Characteristic remark
[19]. See above note [13] on
Florence.
[20]. Aunts of the sitter (see
also Mrs Alley's first sitting, note
[3]). Ellen alone is living. Ellen,
Mary and Elizabeth lived to-
gether (see above note [11] on
Elizabeth). Sitter is sure the
meaning was " and (there is)
Elizabeth," not " and (to) Eliza-
beth."
(At this point the medium woke and asked sitter if she was
satisfied. She said yes, but she had not got what she really came
for. Medium apparently relapsed into trance, and said :)
[21]. I forgot to tell you—
a
beautiful girl has been sitting
with you in your chair with her
arm round you ; ... she is so
excited and pleased to see you
—
she can't build herself up pro-
perly . . . she is taller than you
and the arm hanging over your
shoulder is a big beautiful arm :
a well-shaped hand, but rather
sporting-looking wrists. She
liked sports.
Her hair is beautiful : light
and dark gold-brown. Her eyes
are blue.
Sitter : Blue ?
No, perhaps wall-flower colour.
[21]. These details are accur-
ately descriptive of sitter's
daughter Molly : her hair was
gold-brown. She wore bracelets,
because she thought she had
" hefty " wrists. She was good
at games, very strong and agile.
Her eyes were brown.
Mat 1931 Mediumistic Statements made to Four Sitters 79
[22]. She is about twenty-
two, I should think.
[23]. She is laughing and says
Winnie and Charles, and says,
" That is for evidence."
That is not what she calls you,
but Mum (sitter assents) or like
that and Dad, she says.
[24]. I don't think she is as
old as twenty-two, as she is try-
ing to blow a little wheel orna-
ment in your hat round, and
says, " What a funny thing to
wear in a hat."
[25]. She says she is with
Dorothy, helping . . .
[26]. Dorothy passed over
early in the year and left a little
boy and little girl (sitter dissents)
.
(The communicator also sent
her love to everybody, giving the
names of three girls friends and
of her six living brothers and
sisters).
[22]. She was nearly twenty-
one.
[23]. Winnie and Charles are
her parents' Christian names.
True.
[24]. A very characteristic
touch.
[25]. Dorothy was her second
cousin, daughter of her great-
uncle Ted (see above, Mrs Atley's
sitting).
[26]. She died in March 1929
leaving a baby girl.
Extractsfrom Mrs Fowler's sitting with Mrs Brittain, 23 August 1929,
about two hours after Mrs Grant's sitting.
[27]. There's Emily, that's
your Grandma . . . She says she
can run about like she used to do
before ske got big here (showing
waist), she's respectable now.
[28]. She got big because she
had something the matter—
-
inside.
[29]. She has rather nice hair
for a Grandma.
[30]. She must have been very
religious because she used to like
you to come to her house and
read from the Bible " In my
Father's house are many man-
sions."
[27]. Correct name ; see above
note [13].
[28.] Not known to the family.
[29]. She had very thick hair
for her age (76).
[30]. All true ; she was very
religious, and this was a favour-
ite passage of hers.
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1931
[31]. A beautiful young girl
has come in. She went over
suddenly a little while ago . . .
She's taller than you.
[32]. " Hallo," she says, " have
you got on her stockings ? Be-
cause you used to pinch her
stockings."
[33]. She says you ought to
have gone first, you're the eldest.
That's a joke, she's laughing.
[34]. Anyhow now you won't
have to give her a twenty-first
birthday present . . .
[35]. There is her blue nighty,
she'd like you to have her blue
nighty . . .
[36]. She is worried about
some shoes just before she passed
over : her feet are so big no one
else can wear her shoes.
[37]. She said she was . . .
looking forward to seeing you,
and you were just too late
weren't you ? And it was that
baby kept you wasn't it ?
[38]. Oh, she hated that awful
place, she'd never been back
there ; she was not dead, dead
... is going to help you all. My
goodness, she will have some-
thing to do looking after all the
family.
(After several attempts to get
her name the name Molly was
obtained suddenly and written
in her characteristic way in the
air : round, detached o, straight
l's, and " gamma "
y.)
[31]. Molly (sitter's sister) died
in June 1929. True ; sitter is
also tall.
[32]. A very interesting state-
ment, but inverted. She was the
borrower.
[33]. Sitter is the eldest of the
family.
[34]. She died shortly before
her twenty-first birthday.
[35]. Sitter lives abroad and
knew nothing of this blue sleep-
ing-suit, for the existence of
which Mrs Grant vouches.
[36]. Her mother had recently
bought her an expensive pair of
lizard-skin shoes, they were too
small and were soon trodden out
of shape and spoilt. Sitter knew
nothing of this and thinking a
purchase had not been paid for
said she would see about it.
[37]. Sitter's visit to England
was delayed by her baby's
health and she arrived just too
late.
[38]. Clearly the hospital
where she was taken. There are
six brothers and sisters living ;
see above, end of Mrs Grant's
sitting.
May 193L Mediiimistic Statements made to Four Sitters 81
[39]. She says you must take
care of Winnie and Charles, Mum
and Dad . . . And Geoff, you
must help Geoff. Why didn't
you bring Geoff with you ? She
was very fond of Geoff, though
they used to quarrel a lot at
home. Geoff would always
argue all wrong. She was going
to mend some music for Geoff,
didn't get it done, and bind the
back of a book, something like a
schoolbook he used to work from.
[40]. She would like Geoff to
have her books.
[41]. And what about her
little bus in the stables—no good
leaving it there doing nothing . . .
[42]. She left some bags be-
hind, only there were some things
missing from them.
[43]. She says you have it
—
the little bus. Take it to a place
like Malvern and they will
tune it up for you . . . she'd be
happier if you vised it.
[44]. And the " creature,"
that's a joke—someone they used
to call the creature.
[45]. Who is Geoff going with?
Benson. (Do you mean Hen-
son ?). Yes, HEN SON. . .
[46]. There is a couch ; have
you a musical couch in your
house ? Or perhaps with a
spring broken that squeaks. She
says it is out from the wall . . .
and that she used to come down
on it and you used to tell her not
to . . .
[47]. When you feel lonely you
think, " I'd like old Moll to come
and take me out in her little bus."
[39]. See [23] above. Her
brother Geoff ; true regarding
affection. They were fond of
arguing. A way she might have
regarded it. She was going to
bind a music book for G. ; sitter
was not aware of this.
[40]. G. would appreciate a
gift of books.
[41]. She always called her car
the " little bus." The garage at
home is the stables.
[42]. True ;
handbags with
fittings missing.
[43]. Molly often took her car
to Malvern to be tuned up.
[44]. Significance not under-
stood.
[45]. The name of one con-
nected with the organising of a
tour (orchestra) on which Geoff
was going : he did not go him-
self.
[46]. All true.
[47]. Characteristic of what
sitter might think and say.
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mat 1931
[48]. She doesn't like the
photograph of her looking like a
boy—one with a big collar and
neck that goes down ; it makes
her look like a schoolteacher.
She likes the one she had taken at
the beginning of the year with
her head looking out.
[49]. She does love that baby ;
give him a big hug from hus
Auntie Moll.
[50]. Somewhere earlier she
said, " Wasn't it funny I went
over in some one else's nighty
and oh I had such a headache."
[51]. There is Dorothy who
went over earlier in the year and
left a little girl and she is help-
ing Dorothy with the babies.
[52]. (Regarding helping an-
other sister to find a suitable
" partner ") ; she doesn't want
to get mixed up in any matri-
monial complications.
[53]. She says give her love to
Tom, Belle, Percy and your hus-
band.
[54]. Thank Dorothy's mother
for telling Mum.
[48]. A large photograph an-
swering to this description was
taken. Early in the year a
smaller one with a high neck was
also taken. [I have seen this
" large photograph " with the
" big collar." Hon. Ed.]
[49]. The sex of the child is
correctly given.
[50]. Sitter would hardly have
known of this, although a natural
inference. The head injuries
were very severe.
[51]. See above, Mrs Ailey's
sitting.
[52]. Characteristic remark.
[53]. Tom and Belle are an
elder brother and his wife.
Percy is perhaps meant for
Nancy, another sitter. Sitter's
father-in-law's name was given
for her husband's.
[54]. See above, Mrs Ailey's
second sitting.
Extracts from sitting of Mrs Atley and her daughter J., with Mr
Glover-Botham, 26 October 1929, in France.
[55]. (Jim described clearly,
but details not recorded). He
was a religious man, fond of
going to church and singing
hymns, but he's very jolly too
—
joking now—different to his
brother who is serious.
[56]. (Dorothy described as
having a lovely complexion, soft
curling hair, very sweet face,
lovely eyes).
[55]. See [2] and [13] above.
This characterisation of Jim is
striking. His love of and lusti-
ness in singing hymns were
notable traits. Regarding his
brother Edward see [1] above.
[56]. The name was not given,
but sitters exclaimed it at the
correctness of this description.
May 1931 Mediumistic Statements made to Four Sitters S3
[57]. Who is Elizabeth ? Dor-
othy is speaking of Elizabeth.
[58]. (Dorothy tells her sister
J. to play old songs and the one
about roses and she will sing it).
[59]. (She tells J. she was with
her when she took gloves and
that rose with no smell which
was with them out of a drawer).
[60]. (Eeferences to MxsAtley's
photographs of Dorothy with
flowers under them. Dorothy
had heard her mother speak to
them and say " Good morning,
Dorothy ".)
[61]. (To request for some-
thing about Molly, reply was)
Molly is here in the spirit-world,
(with statement about an acci-
dent and her head badly hurt.
Described as young, very hand-
some, pretty colouring, very
pretty teeth).
[62]. (Some one called Thomas
described ;
elderly, grey and
serious-looking ; with sitter's
mother.)
[57]. The name of Dorothy's
little daughter. She went on to
express satisfaction at the ar-
rangements made for the child.
[58]. She used to sing " Boses
of Ficardy."
[59]. An artificial rose was,
with gloves, given her by Dor-
othy, when J. did as stated.
The medium made a motion of
opening a drawer.
[60]. True description and
statement. Sitter had said this
that morning (Dorothy's birth-
day).
[61]. See [13] and [21] above.
Descriptive details correct.
[62]. Eemembered after the
sitting as the name and an apt
description of an elder brother of
the sitter, not seen for many
years. He lived abroad and had
died a few months before. Sitter
was concerned that in her eager-
ness to avoid side-issues her
memory had been so distressing-
ly at fault.
Extractfrom sitting of Mr C. Grant (Mrs Grant's husband) and his son
G. with Mr Glover Botham, about 20 March 1930.
[63]. (Describing a communi-
cator), Look in the third page of
the old album. She was a
woman of average height, noth-
ing to indicate cause of passing ;
she died unexpectedly from an
[63]. Mrs Grant's Aunt Susie
(sister of Edward, Jim, Mary,
Sarah, see [3] above), was not
quite average height. She died
from the effects of over-activity
after the birth of a child. She
84 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1931
internal complaint, and was
apparently fond of music, as she
was building up an harmonium.
used to play the harmonium in
church. An old album belonging
to Mary had on her recent death
passed into the hands of Mrs
Grant's, sister. It proved to con-
tain two photographs on the
third page, one of which was of
" Aunt Susie." The sitters had
no idea of the existence of this
album, of which Mrs Grant was
at once reminded on hearing of
the above. She immediately
telephoned her sister who lives
at no great distance from her,
and the statement was verified
forthwith. The rest of the sit-
ting was interesting, but not
evidential.
A factor which lends a special interest to this case is that we have
here a group of sitters connected by various family ties. The
connection between them seems to be clearly recognised (this is by
no means alwa3^s the case, even where the medium might be thought
to have some normal reason for assuming a connection), and the
statements made at the different sittings form a consistent whole.
The sitters were persons of education and intelligence, not convinced
spiritualists and with a good grasp of evidence. Mr Thomas writes :
" All the ladies knew about telepathy and were chiefly impressed
by statements made unknown to the sitters . . . They were anxious
all of them to get at the truth. . . .
" I have heard a great deal about or known all the persons con-
cerned in these scripts living and dead, and have been greatly struck
by the livingness of the '
personifications '
of the communicators,
like the rest of us."
REVIEWS.
C. J. Wright, Miracle in History and in Modem Thought. 8vo, pp. ix.
433. London : Constable & Co., 1930. Price 18s. net.
This book is divided into two Parts. The first deals with the
general question of miracles and the miraculous ; the second applies
the results gained in the first to the miraculous element in Chris-
tianity.
Chapter I gives an account of the development of European
thought on the subject in the recent past. A profound difference of
May 1931 ]\cvicics 85
opinion has gradually disclosed itself. There is, on the one hand, the
traditional view that a miracle is an event which cannot be accounted
for by the laws and agents of Nature and must be ascribed to the
direct action of God. On this view the occurrence of miracles is an
essential premise, without which the existence of a God who governs
and directs the world cannot be established. On the other hand,
there is the view that " miracles," in the sense defined above, can
never be known to happen ; that their occurrence is not necessary
in order to establish the existence of a governing and directing God ;
and that, if they did occur, they would be a positive embarrassment
to theism.
Mr Wright takes the second view. He carefully distinguishes with
regard to any event which has been alleged to happen and has been
called a " miracle " the two questions : (a) Did this event in fact
happen 1 and (b) Supposing that it did, was it inexplicable by finite
natural agents and the laws of nature, and must it be ascribed to the
direct action of God ? To the first question he answers that there is
no event, however startling and unusual, with regard to which it is
impossible that there should be such good evidence as to make it
reasonable to believe that it happened. In this connection he dis-
cusses Hume's theory in Chap. II. He rightly concludes that Hume's
contention that no evidence could suffice to make it reasonable to
admit the occurrence of an event which contradicts a hitherto uni-
form experience is quite worthless. But he recognises that Hume did
good service in pointing out the many sources of weakness which
infect most evidence for the occurrence of such events. After allow-
ing for this, he concludes that, among the enormous mass of strange
events which have been reported in connection with various religious
and magical practices, there probably. is a residue of genuine fact.
In Chapter III the author describes the relation of natural science
to miracle. Here the above distinction becomes highly important.
When it is said that natural science cannot admit miracles, what is
true is that it cannot admit that there are any events which are in
principle incapable of that kind of explanation by natural agents
and natural laws which science always seeks to give. " Explana-
tion " in this sense is, of course, merely subsumption under de facto
general rules, and it is a postulate of science that this is always
theoretically possible. But natural science has no right whatever
to assert of any alleged event, no matter how startling and unpre-
cedented, that it could not have happened. The scientist who asserts
of an alleged event that it could not have happened, and the theo-
logian who asserts of it that it is a " miracle " in the traditional sense,,
are guilty of precisely the same kind of unwarranted dogmatism.
Both are assuming that we know all the laws and all the agents in
nature ; for it is only on this assumption that the former could be
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 193 L
justified in denying that such an event could have happened, and
it is only on this assumption that the latter could be justified in
denying that it could be explained by natural causes.
In Chapter IV Mr Wright gives a sympathetic account of psychical
research and kindred subjects, and uses their results to reinforce his
contention that many alleged events which have been called
" miracles " may well have happened, and yet may not be " mira-
cles " in the traditional sense. It is plain that human minds have
many latent powers ; and it would not be surprising if great person-
alities, like the founders of religions, had these powers to so high a
degree as to generate by natural causation very singular phenomena
in the mental and even in the physical realm.
Mr Wright brings his argument to a head in the long chapter which
ends Part I. This is entitled " The Idea of God and the Miraculous."
He holds that belief in God is not something which has to be inferred
from and justified by either the general order of nature or alleged
" miraculous " interferences with it. Religious experience is a form
of knowledge which does not need external support, though it has to
be reconciled with the deliveries of other alleged sources of knowledge.
To the theist who has this knowledge the whole order of nature is a
manifestation of God's character and workings, though certain
features in it may exhibit the character of God more clearly than
others. To rest one's belief in God on " miracles " in a traditional
sense is dangerous to theism in two different ways. In the first place,
no event could possibly be known to be a " miracle " in this sense.
At most the theist could suspect the presence of miracles at those
points at which scientific explanation has so far failed. As scientific
knowledge advances this kind of theism must continually defend
positions which it will eventually have to abandon. Secondly, if
God performs " miracles " in the traditional sense at all, his choice
of the occasions for performing them, and his omission to perform
them on other occasions, presents a most formidable ethical difficulty.
I do not propose to discuss the second Part, which is concerned
with specifically Christian miracles. In conclusion I would say that
Mr Wright has provided a most interesting and sensible discussion of.
a difficult subject. His range of reading is very wide, and he
appends a useful bibliography of fifteen pages. I think that the
book might have been shortened with advantage by the omission of
some of the enormous mass of quotations, but this is a matter of
opinion. C. D. Broad.
Pierre Quercy, UHallucination. I. Philosophes et Mystiques. II.
Etudes Cliniques. 8vo, 2 vols. Paris: Felix Alcan, 1930. Price 100 fr.
The first of these volumes is historical : it contains an account of
the various theories of perception and its relation to our mental life
Mat 1931 Reviews 87
put forward by such philosophers as Descartes, Spinoza, Leibnitz,
Taine and Bergson. The volume concludes with a detailed discussion
of the psychological experiences of St Theresa, and especially of her
visions. Dr Quercy's point of view may be inferred from his con-
clusion that such visions are hallucinatory, but are not wholly the
product of the unconscious mind ;
they are the joint outcome of an
individual volition and " the direct influence of God upon our soul."
It should be stated that Dr Quercy considers such experiences as
St Theresa's very rare and to be distinguished from the various types
of hallucination which he discusses in his second volume. St
Theresa's hallucinations were, in fact, what a student of psychical
research would call " veridical," although Dr Quercy does not any-
where discuss this aspect of the problem, or consider the possibility
that in persons less gifted than the saint an hallucination may some-
times have a supernormal source.
In his second volume Dr Quercy describes and discusses all the
various kinds and degrees of sensory illusion and hallucination
occurring either in a more or less normal state, or in highly abnormal
states, as in various forms of insanity, under the influence of drugs
and so forth. He includes an account of some personal experiences
of his own during illness.
The conclusion to which he comes is that our sensory experiences
may be grouped in three classes :
(1) We may perceive an object which is actually present (normal
sensory perception).
(2) We may perceive an object which is not present (externalised
hallucination).
(3) We may have quasi-sensory impressions of an object which is
neither present nor actually perceived (visualisation and sensory
illusions of various kinds, including hypnagogic illusions).
H. de G. S.
T. Fukurai, Clairvoyance and Thouglitographj. 4to, pp. 247. 119
ill. London : Rider and Co., 1931. Price 21s. net.
This is a report of numerous experiments carried out with several
Japanese mediums. The results were in many cases very striking
(far beyond anything that can reasonably be attributed to chance),
but unfortunately the conditions in which most of the experiments
were carried out were not altogether satisfactory.
In the experiments in clairvoyance with Chizuko Mifune, for
example, the medium, and especially her hands, were on most
occasions under very imperfect observation owing to her persistence
in sitting with her back to the observers. On the occasion of his last
experiments with her Dr Fukurai persuaded her to sit facing him and
obtained some success (the naming of the uppermost face of dice
SS Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1931
lying in a closed cigarette case), but unfortunately the medium died
shortly after this promising development.
With another medium. Ikuko Nagao, experiments in " thoughto-
graphy " were tried, that is, the impressing of a letter or figure on an
undeveloped photographic plate by concentration of thought on the
part of the medium. Many successful results were obtained, but the
precautions taken against fraudulent manipulation or substitution
of plates appear to have been inadequate. In the case of a special
experiment devised by Dr Yamakawa (of Tokyo University) with
elaborate precautions against fraud, some very suspicious circum-
stances were observed, though it must be admitted that the experi-
ment was not well carried out, and the result therefore confused.
In 1928 in the course of a visit to England Dr Fukurai had two
sittings with the Crewe circle at which some typical and unconvincing
results were obtained. H. de CK S.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
No. 476.—Vol. XXVII. June 1931
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
The Second
Frederic W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture
WILL BE DELIVERED BY
Dr T. W. MITCHELL
AT THE
CONWAY HALL
(RED LION SQUARE, W.C. i)
ON
WEDNESDAY, 24 June 1931, at 5.30 p.m.
N.B.
—
Admission will be by Ticket only. Full particulars are given
01 the following page.
F
90 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1931
NEW MEMBER!
Bruck, Dr Carl, Prenzlauer Allee 25, Berlin N.O. 55, Germany.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 283rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C.I, on Wednesday, 29 April 1931, at 3 p.m.,
Mrs Henry Sidgwick in the chair. There were also present
:
Mr W. R. Bousfield, K.C., Miss Ina Jephson, Dr T. W. Mitchell,
Mr W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal, and Dr V. J. Woolley ; also
Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
One new Member was elected. His name and address are given
above.
Professor Charles Sage was elected an Hon. Associate of the
Society.
THE SECOND MYERS MEMORIAL LECTURE.
The Second Frederic W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture, entitled
Beneath the Threshold, will be delivered by Dr T. W. Mitchell in the
Conway Hall, Red Lion Square, W.C.I, on Wednesday, 24 June 1931,
at 5.30 p.m. Admission will be by ticket only. Tickets can now be
had by Members and Associates on application to the Secretary,
S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square. London, W.C.I. Should any tickets
remain unallotted after the 20th of June they will be distributed
among interested members of the public. Members and Associates
who, having received tickets, find later that they are unable to
attend the meeting, are requested kindly to transfer them to a
friend or to return them to the Secretary as soon as possible.
Red Lion Square is in the angle formed by the junction of South-
ampton Row and High Holborn. The nearest Underground stations
are Holborn, British Museum, and Chancery Lane. Buses 19, 38,
138 pass the north entrance of the Conway Hall in Theobalds Road.
N.B.—This will be the last Meeting of the present Session. The
usual meeting on the last Wednesday of the month will be resumed
on the 30th of September.
PRIVATE MEETING.
The 106th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library
of the Society, 31 Tavistock Square, W.C.I on Wednesday, 29 April
1931, at 5.30 p.m., Dr T. W. Mitchell in the chair.
June 1931 Private Meeting 91
Mr W. H. Salter opened a discussion on poltergeists, and said,
in part :
The importance of poltergeists to the study of paraphysical
phenomena need not be stressed at length. It is sufficient to recall
that the whole of the modern spiritualist movement can be traced
back to the Hydesville rappings in 1848. Podmore somewhere calls
poltergeists the ferae naturae of spiritualism : they might perhaps
with equal appropriateness (and better grammar) be described as its
enfants terribles. There are many problems of the seance-room whose
solution can be facilitated by the study of poltergeists, problems
relating to the phenomena themselves, problems of evidence, and
especially problems concerning the psychology of mediums.
Mrs Brackenbury, who has a very extensive personal experience
of investigating poltergeist cases, has recently been engaged in
looking through the Society's collection of cases, which after nearly
50 years of continual research, is a very extensive one. Some of
these cases have been printed in Proceedings or the Journal ; others
have never been printed at all, and I feel sure that a careful stock-
taking will bring to light many points of great interest.
The last time the Society had a stocktaking was in 1896, when
Podmore contributed to Proceedings (xii. 45-115) a detailed analysis
of all the cases (eleven in number) which the Society had up to that
date investigated, together with notes on some other cases reported
to but not investigated by the Society. Podmore summarised his
findings as follows (p. 114) :
" (1) In the eleven cases which we have
investigated in detail, direct proofs of trickery have been found in
several instances. (2) Where the phenomena have been recorded
shortly after their occurrence by educated persons, trickery is found
—moral considerations apart—to be an adequate explanation. (3)
Where the phenomena have been described by illiterate persons, or
recorded some time after the event, this explanation becomes diffi-
cult ; and the difficulty is found to increase directly with the length
of the interval and inversely with the education of the witnesses.
(4) But these eleven cases are fairly representative of their class."
This paper led to a lively controversy between Podmore and
Andrew Lang (Proceedings, xvii. 305-36). Lang held, relying almost
entirely on the classic cases of ancient date, such as the Drummer of
Tedworth, that there was more in it than trickery. In 1911, shortly
after Podmore's death, Sir W. Barrett reopened the question with
a paper (Proceedings, xxv. 377-412) in which he analysed six cases,
two of which he had himself investigated in Ireland. On the strength
of these he maintained
kt
that fraud and hallucination are inadequate
to explain all the phenomena."' That is, I think, the last occasion
on which the general poltergeist problem, as distinct from particular
cases, has been discussed before the Society.
92 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1931
The question whether there is any supernormal element in polter-
geist cases is not one on which general agreement can ever be expected.
In a few cases actual trickery, or preparations for trickery, have been
observed, but in the majority of cases there are so many doubtful
factors that the observer's or reader's judgment is likely to be
determined by his general attitude to paraphysical phenomena.
The evidence in poltergeist cases is rarely of a high order. Much of
it is circumstantial : things happen, or are alleged to happen, in one
place while all the independent observers are elsewhere. If they
happen in the presence of observers, it is rarely that the whole
phenomenon is seen from start to finish : to take a common instance,
the supposed movement of objects without contact : the objects
are seen in motion and coming to rest : the beginning of the move-
ment is not often seen by any independent observer. If to these
difficulties is added the fact that the only witnesses are often
uneducated persons in a state of excitement, whose statements are
only recorded some time after the event, it becomes obvious that
a wide diversity of opinion as to the supernormality of any case is
highly probable.
If however opinions differ as to the interpretation of the facts,
it is all the more striking that there is a strong resemblance between
the facts reported by the different S.P.R. investigators, notwith-
standing that these have throughout the Society's history included
men and women of the most divergent views as to the reality of
supernormal phenomena, from out and out spiritualists to case-
hardened sceptics. I do not mean that there is not a considerable
variety as regards the phenomena produced, noises, movements of
objects and so on ; but that there emerges from a reading of the
cases a fairly definite type of situation, which is sufficiently uniform
to make it a not unreasonable inference that causes which can be
definitely proved in some cases are probably operating in the
others.
It is impossible to read a number of poltergeist cases without
coming to the conclusion that in investigating such cases education
and general intelligence are not enough : some specialised know-
ledge of the problems of psychical research is essential. The recorded
cases may be classified under four heads in a steeply descending
scale of evidential value as follows :
(1) cases where a trained investigator has been present during
the occurrence of some of the phenomena ;
(2) cases where a trained investigator, without actually witnessing
any of the phenomena, has obtained first-hand reports
from witnesses shortly after the occurrence of phenomena,
and has cross-examined the witnesses ;
June 1931 Private Meeting 93
(3) cases where phenomena have been witnessed by persons of
good education without specialised training
;
(4) other cases.
There are several problems, including that of supernormality, on
which it seems to me that the evidence supplied by the first group
of cases enormously outweighs that contributed by all the other
groups, the fourth group (i.e. cases resting solely on the reports of
untrained and uneducated witnesses) being practically worthless.
Apart, however, from the question of supernormality, on which
opinions differ, there are several points on which there seems to be
a consensus of opinion, as will be seen if the conclusions appended
by Podmore and Sir W. Barrett to their respective papers are
compared.
Thus it may be taken as fairly well established that the phenomena
are associated with some particular person : they do not occur " out
of the blue,"' so to speak. A few cases can be traced to impersonal
natural causes, loose tiles, dripping drain-pipes, rats and so on : for
the most part, however, cases of this type do not get reported to us.
Occasionally it appears that there is more than one medium con-
cerned in their production, or that when once poltergeist phenomena
have been started, other persons besides the medium deliberately
exploit them for their own ends by faking additional phenomena.
A second point of agreement is, to quote Sir W. Barrett, that
" the disturbances are usually though not invariably, associated
with the presence of a child or young person of either sex."'
The geographical distribution of poltergeists has perhaps not
received adequate attention. Cases of course occur all over the
world, but although the S.P.R. collection includes cases from several
foreign countries, I am considering for the present their distribution
within Great Britain. In going through our collection recently, I
was struck by the comparative rarity of cases occurring in large towns.
Our country is a highly industrialised one and by far the larger part
of our population is concentrated in large towns and cities. Out of
all our cases, London indeed contributes a fair proportion. But
the other big cities of Gt Britain do not between them contribute
one. A few come from medium-sized towns, but the largest number
come from small towns or villages. If therefore our collection is
representative, and there is no reason to suppose that it is not, it
is clear that the villages and the small towns are the poltergeists'
spiritual home. This is probably due to a combination of two
causes :
(1) there are more distractions for the young in large towns
and consequently less boredom, and boredom seems to be a condition
favourable to the development of the poltergeist psychology in the
.adolescent ; (2) country folk (I speak as a rusticised Londoner) are
94 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1931
more inclined to belief in the supernatural, especially when it takes
a form as traditional as the poltergeist.
That imitation plays a considerable part is certain. If a case is
made much of in the press it is almost certain to be followed at a
short interval by other cases, especially in the neighbourhood.
Of such cases, providing verifiable evidence of intelligence, I do
not think we have a full report of any later than the Derrygonelly
case, investigated by Sir W. Barrett in 1877. In that case Sir
William reported that he several times asked the raps to say how
many fingers he had open in his pocket, and got correct answers
each time. But more evidence than we so far possess seems to be
needed before we can safely assume that the possession of super-
normal knowledge goes with poltergeist phenomena.
Intelligence is of course shown where the phenomena have an
obvious motive, e.g. to get the medium out of uncongenial sur-
roundings, or to frighten away someone whose presence is dis-
tasteful, but that is another matter.
In conclusion a word must be said as to the ethics of poltergeist
investigation. Poltergeist cases, whether supernormal or not, are
certainly pathological, and the first duty of the investigator, trans-
cending even his duty to increase our scientific knowledge, is to see
that nothing occurs to make the child-medium's mental or physical
state worse than it already is. These cases inevitably attract
publicity : a generation ago this was merely local publicity. The
village neighbours were all agog and the local papers wrote the case
up. That was bad enough, but modern journalistic methods have
made things much worse. The cheap London press gets on to the
job, and unless a particularly enthralling murder happens to
coincide, exploits the case to the fullest, regardless both of the child's
welfare and any serious scientific interest. Any investigator who
cares to join in the journalistic hue and cry can of course get his
share of the limelight.
This, I need hardly say, has never been the practice of the S.P.R.
or of our investigators, who have habitually followed the line of
allaying local excitement, getting the child's parents to understand
what the cause of the disturbances is, and giving such advice as
will prevent these unhealthy occurrences being renewed. Tactful
handling of such cases has undoubtedly in the past led to the
restoration of the child to normal mental health. For an example
see vol. xvii. 85-95 of the Journal, one of the rare cases in which
the child medium came from an educated household.
But it is possible that this practice has had a curious result. The
child who produces poltergeist phenomena is likely, especially if
encouraged rather than checked, to develop into a regular medium,
as happened -to the Fox sisters, the authors of the original Hydes-
June 1931 Private Meeting 95
ville rappings. Now poltergeist cases have ever since the Society's
foundation, been more carefully followed up in England than
anywhere else, and with more consideration for the . medium's
welfare. During the same period our country, the birthplace of
Home and Stainton Moses, has been curiously infertile in the
production of physical mediums. Are these two facts quite unrelated
or may it be that if we had allowed the poltergeist phenomena to
run riot in their infancy, we might now be enjoying as creditable
a crop of adult physical mediums as any country in central or east
Europe can boast %
Mrs Brackenbury read a more detailed account of the case
already summarised in the Journal (xxvi. 104-5).
Mr A. W. Trethewy referred to certain Indian poltergeist pheno-
mena of which there had been some recent discussion. A detailed
account of the case in question was given by Mrs Goldney, who had
personally investigated it. The Rev. J. W. Hayes gave his personal
impressions of the phenomena reported by Mrs Brackenbury. The
Rev. W. S. Irving, Mr A. H. Strawson, Dr V. J. Woolley, and Mr
J. Hettinger also contributed to the discussion.
A CASE OF APPARENT HAUNTING IN MOSCOW.
By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
In the Russian daily paper Vozrojdenie, printed in Paris, there
appears, in the number of 17 December 1930 and under the title of
" Ghosts I did not notice," a narrative by M. Nicholas Tchebysheff
(now living at Meudon near Paris), who is well known to me.
M. Tchebysheff was, when Nicholas II was overthrown (March
1917), attorney to the Court of Appeal in Moscow. The Provisional
Government appointed him Senator. Under General Denikin he
was from January to July 1919 at the head of the Home Department;
and his last official post was, I believe, that of manager of General
Wrangel's political chancery at Belgrade. I think I may also call
him a pressman.
The Vozrojdenie narrative is picturesque and interesting, but too
long to be translated verbatim. I will therefore content myself with
summing it up.
"It is the only instance [in my experience]," M. Tchebysheff
says,
' l
when I am ready to swear on the Gospel that ghosts, phan-
toms, powers from the Beyond there were, the fact that I did not
perceive them notwithstanding : the marvellous [element] that was
near me did not pay attention to me, did not reveal itself to my
sight and hearing. . . . This story I will relate as it actually occurred,
like a proces-verbal, not adding one word. Let my narrative serve
as document."
96 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1931
In January 1909, M. Tchebysheff pursues, he was transferred
from Smolensk to Moscow. He put up at an hotel and began to
look for a flat. He soon got a letter from a lady unknown to him
(she subsequently turned out to be pale and good-looking
11
with
big, sad eyes "), offering him to take her flat in Kounin's house—
a
brand-new five storied building at the corner of Pretchistenka and
Smolensky boulevard. M. Tchebysheff called on the lady and liked
the flat, which comprised four rooms, a bath-room and a kitchen.
He had the impression that the lady looked rather ill at ease and
wanted to tell him something, but dared not. She mentioned that
she now lived at her mother's and had not stayed in the flat long.
" I do come sometimes in the day," she added.
M. Tchebysheff moved into the flat where nothing unusual
happened up to August, when he moved into another apartment
for financial reasons. More than once, he tells us, he did afterwards
regret the Smolensky boulevard four rooms.
Later in the same autumn he met the lady at a concert. He did
not at first recognise her. " I am much in fault towards you," she
said. " It is impossible to live in that flat."
M. Tchebysheff informed the lady he had moved into another
house. Whereupon she said :
" Of course you could not live there
too and so you went away. I could not stand it even a week : it
was something incessantly terrible."
He explained he had left the house because the landlord had
raised the rent. Here the conversation rather abruptly terminated,
M. Tchebysheff being with a few friends. To the lady he said he
would ring her up.
On thinking the matter over, he recollected in connection with
the flat in Kounin's house the following incident. Nothing at all
had happened there to himself, but once in July P., a friend of his,
came to stay with him for a few days. The very first night (appar-
ently), M. Tchebysheff felt himself awakened : it was P., pale, nay
white, his eyes wide with fear, his chin trembling.
" It is impossible to sleep there. I cannot sleep there," he said.
He had been spending the night in the sitting room. M. Tcheby-
sheff took his place and slept soundly till the morning. On waking
up he learned that P. had left for the country.
He was unable to telephone to the lady as he had forgotten her
name. But meeting P. a couple of days later, he asked him to
explain what had happened. In spite of much insistence he failed
however to obtain an answer satisfactory to him.
He had as man-servant a Pole named Augustine who had been
with him a fortnight in Kounin's house, and questioned him. " Did
you not notice, Sir," the Pole replied, " that in that flat you had
constantly to change servants ?
" In fact, M. Tchebysheff recollected
June 1931 A Case of Apparent Haunting in Moscow ^97
that such had been the case. Now a cook would go away, now a
man-servant. Twice people left without warning, leaving no address.
As to the cause of such a behaviour Augustine (he was unable to
express his thoughts adequately either in Russian or in ^Polish)
merely stated these people had said it was " too frightful " there.
He admitted when hard pressed that he had never spent there the
night himself—though apparently for reasons of quite a " mundane
"
character
J
As stated to M. Tchebysheff by an old inhabitant of Moscow, a
church and cemetery had once existed on the spot where Kounin's
house was subsequently built.
M. Tchebysheff concludes his account by expressing the hope
that maybe the " lady " is now somewhere out of Russia too and
will communicate with him. Hitherto, so far as I know, this hope
has not been fulfilled.
In a letter to me dated 21 December 1930, M. Tchebysheff writes
that the Vozrojdenie " had neither added nor changed anything m
my protocol-like narrative." The latter has not been adorned by
him, he says, in any way, being a conscientious description based
on memory, in which M. Tchebysheff mentioned only what he firmly
remembered.
Though unavoidably very incomplete his account seems to me
valuable. It is likely that something like " haunting " was in fact
at the bottom of the whole occurrence, though absolute certainty
on this point obviously fails us. The most curious point is of course
M. TchebyshefFs apparent and complete " unreceptivity." Surely
it detracts nothing from the value of the opinion : rather the
reverse. For if the fear to which the little flat gave birth was due
to some natural but undetected cause, it is very strange that M.
Tchebysheff should not have shared in the impression. It would be
interesting to know whether there are on record many other more
or less well attested cases of alleged haunting presenting the same
characteristic and puzzling feature.
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir—I do not desire the printing of this letter unless what is
stated therein has intrinsic interest for psychical research, since it
would be repugnant to me that it should be regarded as a reper-
cussion to criticisms made in the gracious review, printed in the
last Proceedings, of my book, The Enchanted Boundary. Indeed, I
think the reviewer has grounds in the form and appearance of
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1931
certain features and passages of the book, for every one of these
few criticisms. Some things which are to be made very manifest
in the book now preparing, which presents the case-results of the
questionnaire, should have been at least hinted in its predecessor.
Superficially it would seem, although this point is not brought up
in the review, as though directing the questionnaire only to persons
listed in Who's Who in America, were also " an interesting illustra-
tion of American standards," but the reasons and justification for
this, I think will be made apparent. Turning to the purported
illustration which is mentioned, I doubt if it is characteristic of
cultured Americans to rate a person's testimony according to whether
or not he belongs to a church, and am quite certain that this is no
standard of mine. But there is a scientific superstition, not entirely
circumscribed by American boundaries, that opinions as to the
existence of psychical facts, and especially the experiencing of
purported psychical incidents, are largely conditioned on the
presence or absence of religious belief. Included in the forthcoming
Eeport will be several classifications of respondents to the
questionnaire, which will have some though limited value, and one
of them will be for the purpose of testing that issue. Entering
church affiliations among the biographical data in the volume
already printed without explanation does, indeed, easily lead to
an erroneous inference.
I also readily acknowledge it regrettable that I, in some instances..
" improved " my own letters to correspondents, for the purpose of
publication, that is without making it clearer why and how I did
so. Let us consider the matter, for it is an important point in
literary ethics. Certainly it would have been most reprehensible to
alter or add a word to a letter of my correspondent. It would be
an offence to change anything in a letter of mine if anything after-
ward written by that correspondent and published by me hinged
upon it.
But when I print a correspondent's letter with his consent, I may
reply to it, for the sake of the public, if I choose, in entire disregard
of what I happened to have written in my letter to him personally.
I think we will all agree on that, provided that I make no claim that
I am giving the original letter. That being the case, what possible
objection can there be to the presentation of my argument made
for the benefit of the public, in part, and only in part, be that part
great or small, in the language of the original letter, provided I
declare that this is being done ? My original responses were made
to correspondents without the idea in mind of printing them, and
they involve, as amongst themselves, many repetitions. What
possible objection can there be, so long as there is no secret about it,
to saving time by using the original responses in whole or part, but
June 1931 Correspondence 99
" improving " the wording of certain infelicitous phrases, omitting
paragraphs rather than print them again and again, and even
sometimes substituting another case-illustration for one already too
frequently used ? I may not improve my opponent's style or argu-
ment—all I can do is to give him fair warning and incite him to do
his best ; but my own argument, made to readers of the bcok, I
may " improve " with impunity as much as I choose, even to entire
disregard of what was written to the person himself. If any differ
with this opinion, I hope to hear from them in the Journal.
The reviewer has certainly pointed out defects in another passage.
But while I did unfortunately follow the question whether all
psychical researchers agree that any types of phenomena are
supernormal by the answer " yes," I afterward and somewhat
inconsistently modified this answer by the expressions " practically
unanimous agreement," " generally agreed," and " practical agree-
ment." It should not be forgotten that the term " psychical
researcher " was carefully denned and limited in its application.
But even at that it was not limited sufficiently to represent my
meaning, as I have stated elsewhere in print but forgot to do by
footnote in the book. The psychical researchers I had in mind as
being generally agreed, not absolutely but " practically " unanimous,
were those who not only have had much experience in " this field,"
but also have had personal experience with the particular type
referred to, in connection with exponents of reputation. I doubt
if any veteran psychic researcher has been quite convinced regarding
any particular type unless he has had considerable personal experi-
ence with such psychics as are capable of it. Psychometrical
psychics capable of impressive work are very, very rare, as I stated.
Can the reviewer " name several " (i.e. more than two) psychical
researchers, as defined, who have themselves had numerous experi-
ments with psychometrists that have convinced any whom they
regard as their peers, and who are not themselves convinced ? If
he can I shall never again say " practically unanimous agreement
"
or " generally agreed " in reference to psychometry, and as it is
shall more carefully guard its terms hereafter. It may be that the
employment of the word -practically in the sense of " approximately,
as a general rule of practice, with negligible exceptions," and the
use of the word generally in the sense of approaching universality,
on the whole," are Americanisms. If so I want to know it, being
desirous of employing words only according to such definitions as are
intelligible to English-speaking people everywhere.
Naming types of psychical phenomena is one of the most difficult
things to do satisfactorily. I usually employ names which as little
as possible convey in themselves a theory of origin, terms which
are descriptive of the outer appearance of things, even if they are
100 Journal of Society for Psycldeal Research June 1931
drawn from popular usage. " Telepathy " is a word which may
announce a theory, but in so entitling one of the four named types
I simply refer to those sets of facts which look like thought-trans-
ference. Veridical apparitions (not limited to those of the dying)
may be all telepathically caused, but are a quite different class of
phenomena. I did not say whether I thought that they demonstrate
anything more than telepathy because it was not germane for my
purpose to discuss, in that place, theories of causation. By " me-
diumistic deliverances " (one rather shrinks from the term " message
mediumship " as that seems to announce a theory) I of course was
understood to refer to those deliverances, vocal or written, pur-
porting to be from the spirits of the dead. For once, I must dis-
tinctly differ from my friend the reviewer, and declare this a type
of phenomenon in itself. It is what, in its appearance, is different
from what I classed as " telepathy," " apparitions," and " psycho-
metry." Theoretically, of course, all four might be telepathic in
their nature.
Mr Besterman says " it would have been interesting to have been
told whether Dr Prince believes in any forms of psychometry
beyond such as can be explained by telepathy." I am very willing
to answer the implied question. I do not know by what interior
process the psychometrical results which I have witnessed, and
which I am convinced were supernormal, in the work of Sra. de Z
and Mrs King were produced ; but I very much doubt if all could
be explained by what we at present know, or have any scientific
right to assume, about telepathy.
Take the experiment with Mrs King referred to on pages 145-6 of
The Enchanted Boundary, fully reported in the Proceedings of the
A. S.P.R. for 1924, pp. 204-18, and discussed in Bulletin XI of the
B. S.P.R., pp. 10-14. Certainly of the 34 statements tested, 33 of
which were correct and the remaining one partly so, many were
known to me, so, theoretically, could have been obtained from me
by thought transference. Even at that, the result would surpass
that of any experiments of which I know, instituted for the express
purpose of testing telepathic ability. Nine of these facts were not
known to me at the time, and several never were known to me, as
that the church was built of " grey stone." (The stone was covered
with plaster painted brown, and I would have supposed that bricks
lay beneath.) But let us put all these facts aside. I had certainly
formerly known that the writer of the letter had made a journey to
Boston and New Haven, and had known that he mentioned these
places in a letter. But at the time of the experiment, more than
four years later, I had no knowledge nor thought that I had brought
that very letter. I had taken the letter which, folded small, was to
be placed between the flat palms of the psychic and, in bright
Junk 1931 Correspondence 101
sunlight, so remain until the experiment was over, out of a file of
some eighteen letters by a clergyman, in no chronological order,
and I had carefully refrained from looking inside it. But, while most
of her true statements (which, taken together, exceeded chance
expectation about five quadrillion times) could not have been
divined by reading the whole letter, the mention of a journey,
naming of Boston, and terms describing another city and applying
to New Haven as it would not to one city out of a hundred, showed
knowledge, somehow derived, of a part of the contents of the letter
itself. I have shown ad nauseam, in the publications named above,
the absurdity of supposing that the woman could have glimpsed
a word in the letter.
But I did not know that the references were in the letter. To
suppose telepathy from me is to suppose that I subconsciously not
only remembered so much of the contents of this letter but also
the very creases of the white outside pages, through the several
years since I had read it, and thus was able, still subconsciously,
to identify it. For something or somebody was able to select three
references, correct for no other letter from that correspondent. We
get no help by imagining that the telepathic wave came 190 miles
from the clergyman who wrote the letter, who knew nothing about
the experiment, and could not himself have known that I took the
letter or what letter I took unless by another telepathic wave to
his subconscious, from my subconscious endowed with genius to
identify an old letter and to rejuvenate its contents by reference to-
creases or other obscure marks on its blank outside.
I have no other solution how the thing was accomplished, but
for all that, I do not yet believe that my subconscious has that degree
of demideific endowment. I really wish that some one would study
this case in detail, and, if only as an exercise in dialectics, or in the
capacity of advocatus diaboli, would argue that all its items were
telepathically derived, and attempt to point out what were probably
their several sources, and the avenues by which they reached their
destination in the consciousness of Mrs King. I am inclined to give
preferential attention to every claim of telepathy which can be
made even plausible to the intelligence, but am not disposed to
employ the word as a mere talisman to exorcise the perplexing
problems of psychical research.
Nothing in this letter is to be taken as controversial, in the in-
vidious sense of the word. I am even more grateful to Mr Besterman
for pointing out obscurities and infelicities of statement, to which I
(and he) could add other examples, than for his commendations.
Yours, etc.,
Walter Franklin Prince.
102 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1931
[I am more than gratified with the gentle and instructive reproof
the criticisms on which I ventured have drawn from the President.
On two points only I must beg leave to remain obstinate. Dr
Prince claims the right to improve his letters under the circumstances
he has outlined above. But let Dr Prince put himself in the position
of one of those correspondents he so scientifically excoriates.
Would such a one not be entitled to say :
" It is very easy for you
to make me look a fool when you've touched up your letters ; if
you had only given me the same opportunity how easily I could
have turned the tables on you !
" We may not believe for a moment
that any of Dr Prince's correspondents could have turned the tables
on him, but still ! Could not the difficulty have been met, I wonder,
by dropping the letter form altogether ?
The more important point is Dr Prince's implied assertion that
only a student of psychical research who has had much experience
of a particular phenomenon is entitled to a hearing on that pheno-
menon. Surely this is a revolutionary principle in scientific work ?
Have I no right to be sceptical about the rope-trick because I have
never been in the East, or to believe in phantasms of the living
because I have never experienced one ? I think that a fuller
statement of our President's views in this matter would be welcomed
by our members.
—
Th.B.]
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Revue Metapsychique, January-February 1931.
M. and Mme Magrou of the Pasteur Institute print a paper on
the action at a distance exerted by living organisms. The paper,
which deals with various bacteria such as Bacterium tumefaciens on
the one hand, and such organisms as sea-urchins on the other, is
interesting, and its contents could be regarded as constituting some-
thing like a trait a" union between psychical research and bacteriology
were not its publication one more rather discouraging sign of how
little positive evidence of " metapsychical " phenomena in the strict
sense of the word we now dispose.
M. de Vesme pursues his study of various cases of stigmatisation,
beginning this time with Lucia of Narni (15th- 16th centuries) and
ending with Theresa Neumann. Lucia, by the way, was both accused
of fraud and subsequently beatified.
M. Delevsky prints the first instalment of a paper on " The Riddle
of Premonitions." Some cases of alleged predictions by clairvoyants
are tentatively explained by the hypothesis of " eternal return
"
(retour eternel), according to which " cycles " of events are repeating
themselves in times almost ad infinitum,. If we postulate such a
theory (championed among others by Blanqui and Nietzsche) we
June 1931 Notes on Periodicals 103
can " easily admit in principle that a subject endowed with an extra-
ordinary gift of clairvoyance can contemplate the future of a man,
of a race or of a globe in the past of another identical globe." In
which case " the very mistakes in the premonitions would be sus-
ceptible of an explanation, the subject perceiving a copy which was
not identical with the future event in spite of an approximate resem-
blance." Speaking for myself I will say that however ingenious such
a " theory "—which I am amazed to see put forward in all serious-
ness—I am convinced that the real explanation of the alleged pre-
monitions is a much less complicated one, whatever it may be.
In the Chronique M. Maire is very hard on the Henri Vandermeulen
apparatus and the attitude of the Rutot circle in Brussels, I think
rightly.
Bulletin du Conseil de Recherches Metajpsychiques de Belgique, April
1931.
This number opens with a paper by M. Rutot on " Life, Survival,
Reincarnation according to the Cosmogonic Energetic Theory."
Another instalment of the paper on the Henri Vandermeulen
apparatus follows, then two papers containing various " typtological"
messages. All or almost all seem to have been quite non-evidential.
King Leopold II expresses in a few lines his views on the linguistic
question (French and Flemish) now so very much to the front in
Belgium, and Professor Charles Deperet, who died in 1930, informs us
that he will soon leave for " Syrius " (M. Rutot thinks it " queer " that
all " entities " speaking of Sirius should always spell it in this way).
Etudes, March 1931.
Father Roure, S.J., discusses the " Crisis of Hypnotism " (for
there is apparently such a " crisis "). He recalls Charcot's exper-
iments on hysterical women in the seventies and the vogue thereof.
But some of Charcot's subjects were convicted of simulation ; the
Salp : triere thesis that every hypnotisable person is also an hysterical
person was violently assailed and so the experiments as well as
hypnotism itself were discredited. And since then we note that
hypnotisable subjects grow more and more scarce ; in 1884, accord-
ing to some statistics, some 84-87 per cent, of all peoples could be
hypnotised ;
today the hypnotic sleep can apparently be induced
only exceptionally.
Father Roure thinks that now " the laboratories have forsaken the
seances of provoked sleep," that " physicians, the healers excepted,
no longer appeal to them as to a therapeutic process." This crisis,
he thinks, is due to the fact that after having worked in order to
establish the reality of the unconscious, hypnotism " unduly and
indefinitely extended its domain and its possibilities as well as its
therapeutic virtues." A reaction was sooner or later unavoidable.
104 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June W3I
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, March 1931.
This number opens with a translation of Dr Osty's statement on
his recent experiments with Rudi Schneider in the November-
December number of the Revue Metapsychique
.
Professor J. Dorfler has a lengthy paper on the Eggenberg Spuk
(Frieda Weissl). Some of the "phenomena " were observed by the
writer himself. One rather striking incident (a looking glass flying
out of a closed drawer where it had been placed in Prof. Dorfler's
presence after a first spontaneous " flight ") reminds us very forcibly
of the extremely important part played in such episodes from the
standpoint of their evidential character by the personality of the
observer.
Dr Ludwig prints a lengthy and very interesting account (first-
hand) of a case of haunting which lasted three years and a half, the
narrator being a deceased cousin of the priest Ritzinger of Ober-
lindhart (Lower Bavaria). The "phenomena " culminated in Herr
Kammermeier seeing an apparition which he subsequently identified
with the former owner of the house, the conditions of the identifica-
tion being tolerably good.
Prof. K. C. Schneider of Vienna, has a long paper (read at the
Athens Congress) on the " Psychological field of energy as bearer of
sensuous and super-sensuous experience." Baroness Kulmer con-
cludes her study of Baron Hellenbach (1827-1887). In Kleine
Mitteilungen Dr F. Quade has a short article on Professor Hans-
Driesch's recent lecture on " Belief in Spirits in the Light of Science
"
in Berlin. In connection with Dr Christian Schroder's sixtieth birth-
day, his work in the domain of " Parapsychophysics " is recalled by
Herren Haslinger and Zeller. In a short statement d propos of Herr
R. Lambert's account of his sittings with this medium, the clair-
voyant Max Moecke maintains that he took part in the sitting in
question in a state of complete exhaustion. P.-P.-S.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
No. 477.—Vol. XXVII. July 1931
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1,
ON
WEDNESDAY, 30 September 1931, at 5.30 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings,
with special reference to the Sources of Veridical
Information and to the Method of its Recep-
tion
WILL BE READ BY
The Rev. C. DRAYTON THOMAS
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
G
it)b* Journal of Society for Psychical Research ,tuly1931
NEW MEMBERS
(Elected 27 May 1931)
Beresford-Peirse, Lt-Colonel Noel, D.S.O., R.A., Army and Navy
Club, St James's Square, London, W. 1.
Bovill, Mrs Karslake, 57 Marloes Road, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Hart, Hornell, Ph.D., Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pa., U.S.A.
{Elected 17 June 1931)
Mayberry, James B., 12 Place Denfert-Rochereau, Paris, France.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 284th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 27 May 1931, at 3 p.m., Sir
Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the Chair. There were also present :
Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P., Mr W. R. Bousfield, K.C., Professor E. R.
Dodds, Miss Ina Jephson, Mr G. W. Lambert, Sir Oliver Lodge, The
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Professor W. McDougall, Mr
J. G. Piddington, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mrs Henry
Sidgwick, Mr S. G. Soal, and Dr V. J. Woolley ; also Mr Theodore
Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
Mr L. S. Fletcher and Mr H. F. Saltmarsh were co-opted Members
of Council for the year 1931. ,
.
The 285th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 17 June 1931, at 3 p.m., The Earl
of Balfour in the Chair. There were also present : Sir Ernest
Bennett, M.P., Mr W. R. Bousfield, K.C., Sir Lawrence J. Jones,
Bart., The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Professor W.
McDougall, Mr J. G. Piddington, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H.
Salter, Professor F. C. S. Schiller, Mrs Henry Sidgwick, and Dr V. J.
Woolley ; also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and
Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
One new Member was elected. His name and address are given
above.
Lord Charles Hope was co-opted a Member of Council for the year
1931.
July 1931 Meetings of the Council 107
The following Resolution was carried nem. con. :
" The Council
desire to place on record their appreciation of the work done by Mr
Besterman as Editor and Librarian and in connection with research."
The Librarian reported that the last instalment had now been
received of the grant of £1000 made to the Library by the Carnegie
United Kingdom Trust. The Council expressed their appreciation
of the generous help given to the development of the Library and
requested the Hon. Secretary to convey their thanks to the Trustees.
PRIVATE MEETING.
Control Experiments in Booktests.
The 107th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library
of the Society, 31 Tavistock Square, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 27 May
1931, at 5.30 p.m., Professor W. McDougall in the Chair.
Mr Theodore Besterman read, in part, a paper entitled
" Further Inquiries into the Element of Chance in Booktests," in
which he described two series of control experiments in booktests.
The paper is published in Part 121 of Proceedings.
The Chairman congratulated Mr Besterman on a very interesting
piece of research and asked Mrs Salter to describe the way in which
she gave her booktests.
Mrs Salter said that she wrote clown these booktests in the Society's
library after putting herself in the same sort of frame of mind as that
in which she did her automatic writing. She was very much sur-
prised that she had scored some lucky shots and did not see any
reason to suppose that she had any of the curious faculty that appa-
rently lay behind booktests. In reply to a question by Professor
McDougall, Mrs Salter said that she did not think that her booktests
were written automatically. Mr Besterman pointed out, however,
that they were not in Mrs Salter's ordinary handwriting.
Professor E. R. Dodds suggested that Mrs Salter's success might
be due to her knowledge of the sort of books likely to be found on
Mr Besterman' s shelves. In his own case he had some general
knowledge of this kind and had been tempted to make use of it for
the booktests he sent in, but he had actually done them by a process
akin to free association. Mrs Salter, referring to her best hit, said
that she had no special reason to suppose that Mr Besterman would
possess anything bearing on pottery. Mr Besterman said that he had
to confess that Professor Dodds was one of those deliberately asked
to take part in the experiment in view of the greater likelihood in
their cases of obtaining successes. It had been the special purpose
of this particular experiment to load the dice as heavily as possible
in favour of chance. But none of the persons so chosen had ob-
tained any success.
g2
108 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1931
The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas suggested that a point in favour of
Mrs Leonard's booktests, and one which was not capable of statistical
evaluation, was the special appositeness of the tests. For instance,
in one case known to him Feda gave an indication to a particular
place where a reference to a certain person would be found. The
person in question was the son of a wine merchant, and when the
reference was verified it was found to be, "I am truly a son of
Bacchus." Mr Thomas gave other examples of a similar kind. He
thought that Mr Besterman's paper had shown conclusively that
the booktests received from Mrs Leonard were not the result of
chance coincidence. Mr Besterman said that he appreciated the
value of Mr Drayton Thomas's point. He did not think, however,
that he could fully agree with Mr Thomas's contention. In his
opinion a simple and concrete reference was more valuable than a
symbolical or allusive one. Thus, " He is truly a son of Bacchus
"
was a statement which required interpretation and one which could
be interpreted in several senses. Had the reference been, " I am
truly the son of a wine merchant," it would have been a definite and
unequivocal hit.
Mr Salter said that no doubt Mr Besterman agreed that the
peculiar appropriateness of a booktest to the sitter receiving it was an
essential part of such a test and one which would be taken into
account in the statistical evaluation of it. Mr Besterman assented.
Dr Hornell Hart suggested that when an actual booktest was
verified the book indicated by the medium should be placed
among a number of other books, and that the sitter should then be
asked to pick out the book which he thought corresponded to the
medium's indications. Mr Besterman agreed that this was a good
plan, but was doubtful whether most sitters would agree to it.
There were also practical difficulties.
THE SECOND MYERS MEMORIAL LECTURE
The Second Myers Memorial Lecture, by Dr T. W. Mitchell, has
now been published under the title Beneath the Threshold. Copies
may be obtained from the Secretary, Society for Psychical Research,
31 Tavistock Square, W.C. 1, price Is. each ; remittances should be
enclosed with all orders.
Copies of the First Myers Memorial, Conviction of Survival, by Sir
Oliver Lodge, are also obtainable as above, price 2s. each.
A NOTABLE BOOKTEST OBTAINED AT A SITTING
WITH MRS LEONARD
I regret that I omitted an evidential detail from the report printed
in the Journal for April last (xxvii. 59 ff.). The attache-case con-
taining the volume of Pope was first opened after the sitting, and
the booktest verified, in Miss Newton's presence. Th. B.
July 1931 Correspondence 109
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—I will respond to the suggestion that I express myself more
fully on the points in relation to which Mr Besterman conceives that
we disagree (see page 102 of the Journal). I am inclined to think
that, on the contrary, we agree when the facts are understood.
That Mr Besterman has not quite understood them is due in part to
my failing, in my letter which you have printed, to express myself
as clearly as I thought had been done. Let us take up his two points
in turr.
1. The first is put in the form of a question whether my corre-
spondents have not a right to complain that they might have made
a better showing had they been given an opportunity to touch up
their letters, as I " touched up " mine. My answer is Yes, were the
facts such as Mr Besterman supposes them ;
No, since the facts are
as follows :
(1) Every correspondent was aware that his replies were subject
to publication. (2) Every correspondent was asked whether or
not his name could be printed therewith, and unless he expressly
assented it was suppressed. (3) Every correspondent was pursued
with appeals to " improve " and develop his thesis to the point that
he failed to answer, or else his letter is the last in the particular series
to be printed. In such circumstances I maintain that I could with
perfect propriety, for the sake of my readers, improve even my argu-
ment ;
exactly as there is often printed an " open letter " ostensibly
written to a person who never saw it until it appeared in a news-
paper.
But, in fact, I never once improved or changed any argument.
The changes, which in a general way the reader was notified might
occur, and which did occur in but a small percentage of my letters,
were limited to the following species : (1) the clarification of certain
obscurities or correction of actual ingram maticisms resulting from too
hasty dictation, (2) omission of paragraphs too often repeated to my
various correspondents, and of formal or irrelevant matter, (3)
substitution of case-illustrations for some also so often repeated that
they would have been tiresome to readers of the book, and one more,
unstated in my previous letter, (4) corrections of erroneous punctua-
tion. None of these, it will probably be agreed, put correspondents
to any disadvantage. The whole object of pursuing them with
letters was to draw them out to the fullest, and get their opinions
put in the best possible shape. The only person from whom I feared
110 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1931
any complaint was Mr Chauncey Thomas, and that because com-
pelled to condense and paraphrase his lengthy letters. But he
expressed his entire content with his treatment, and no whisper of
dissatisfaction has come from any other.
The rock of offence—and it is a real one—was the careless use of
the word "improve " without explaining what it meant and how
limited was its application. Yes, and one other, which it is almost
incredible that I have but just now observed, and of which the
reviewer made no mention. My books for years show that my
practice has been to designate long citations, not by quotation
marks but by distinguishing characteristics of typography. How
in this book they came also to be enclosed in quotation marks, and
how it was possible for me not to have been conscious that they had
been so typed, I do not know.
The two principles, that what professes to be a literal quotation
should be immaculate and that an academic opponent should be
treated with absolute fairness, are so incumbent that any appearance
of delinquency in regard to either should be put to question.
2. Mr Besterman's second point is that I have made an " implied
assertion that only a student of psychical research who has had much
experience of a particular [species of] phenomenon is entitled to a
hearing on that [species ofj phenomenon."' If that is a correct
understanding of anything written by me, it is more than a " revolu-
tionary principle,'' it is fatuity and fanaticism. But perhaps I can
demonstrate that I wrote nothing which ought to be so construed.
Let us start at the bottom. In the Clark University lecture I
defined my understanding of the term "psychical researcher " or
my concept of the person deserving it, thus : "A person of evident
intelligence and cultivation, whose writings reveal acquaintance
with and employment of critical method, and who has had much
experience in this field and who is interested in the fixation of facts
and not in propaganda.'* That was my definition, be it correct or
incorrect, and I have not departed from it or narrowed it. The
psychical researcher, however, is one thing, the psychical researcher
convinced is another thing. A man who measures up to the parti-
culars enumerated, in my judgment, deserves the title, and has the
right to be listened to with abounding respect, and his arguments
are of course worth exactly what their own content make them worth,
whether or not one is arguing about a type or case of phenomena with
which he himself has had personal contact. But when it comes to the
dry statistical question what types of phenomena, if any, psychical
researchers in the main accept, it was necessary to add as a matter of
fact that, at this stage of investigation, it seems as though a psychical
researcher must, in order to become thoroughly convinced of any
type of phenomena, have had adequate personal contact with it.
July l'J31 Correspondence 111
I was asserting, tentatively, not a point of ethics or propriety,
bnt one of fact, a fact of our common human psychology. I did not
defend the fact any more than in case I had ventured the assertion
that the majority of people on shipboard in a storm became seasick,
this would have meant that I approved of their becoming seasick.
It might be quite reprehensible for them to be seasick, but that would
be aside from my point.
My statement is of a sort whose application is not peculiar to the
field of psychical research. Every major discoverer, such as Coper-
nicus and Galileo, met the same inability to win full acceptance on
the part of any one, except and until persons themselves patiently
retraced their footsteps and, as it were, came into personal contact
with the phenomena. That remained true until by this process a
sufficient number of full converts, so to speak, had been gained so
that others surrendered to the influence of authority. The early
demonstrations of hypnosis, even up to past the time of Braid, were
unable to convince scientific minds save the few curious enough to
acquire personal experience with the phenomena.
It was such a fact which I asserted, without either approval or
reprehension, and quite without any reference to respective rights of
discussion. At least, I never had any such implication in mind,
and cannot yet see how any sentence of mine bears such an inter-
pretation. Though I think that probably, in this period, no man
has become entirely assured, for instance, that some automatic
writing exhibits knowledge never normally acquired by the writer,
unless he has had some personal experience in testing the conditions
and watching the work of an automatic writer of that grade, I do
not hold that this final and satisfactory state of assurance to him is
communicable or is to be taken into account at this stage, by any
other man. I agree with Mr Besterman, most emphatically, that
every student of psychical research who has any good argument,
drawn from whatever source, is entitled to a hearing. And I concede
to him his right to believe in the phantoms of the living though he
has never seen one, but must remind him that the experiencing of
phantoms, as such, had been well established by the authority of
psychologists without waiting for psychical research, and I may still
doubt if he could feel fully satisfied that such hallucinations were not
merely coincidental but telepathically caused, short of some personal
contact with what seemed to be actual cases of spontaneous or
experimental telepathy. If he could, I congratulate him on his
independence of the Zeit-Geist.
Yours, etc., Walter Franklin Prince.
[I am very grateful to the President for his further elucidations, and
I agree that our differences are more apparent than real. The first
112 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1931
point requires no further comment. In the second it now appears
that my mistake was in supposing that Dr Prince approved of the im-
plication in the following sentence from his first letter (p. 99) :
" The psychical researchers I had in mind . . . were those who not only
have had much experience in '
this field,' but also have had personal
experience with the particular type referred to. . .
." With Dr
Prince's explanation that he merely stated the fact without giving it
his approval, my criticism falls to the ground. But I am glad that I
made it, for the President's two letters have thrown clear light on a
most interesting point.
—
Th. B.]
THE MEDIUM FRAU SILBERT.
[The following letter has been sent by Mr Rudolf Lambert to Mr
Besterman, with a suggestion that it should appear in the Journal.
It contains matter of considerable interest to psychical research and we
therefore gladly print it. As our members are probably aware, Mr
Lambert is an Assistant-Editor of the Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie
and has shown himself to be a man of open mind in regard to para-
phxjsical phenomena.—Hon. Ed.]
Dear Mr Besterman,—I have been following with increasing
indignation the purely personal attacks which have been made on
you in various quarters, and, most recently, by Professor Haslinger
in the Zeitschrift filr Parapsychologie, because, like Dr Prince, you
have stated, in accordance with your duty and in the mildest possible
way, that you detected Frau Silbert in fraud. This persecution
angered me the more as I myself observed this medium's frauds in
three sittings at the end of March 1929. I therefore consider it my
duty to throw my testimony into the scales, although I find it very
hard to write against Frau Silbert's protectors in Graz. I am in fact
in this dilemma, either to break a promise far too easily given to
Messrs Haslinger and Walter, or silently to look on while the deluded
admirers of a fraudulent medium bait an honourable man. Before
setting out on my j
ourney I wrote to Professor Walter, without having
been asked to do so, that " even if I were to think that I had observed
Frau Silbert's feet performing improper manipulations, I would
publish nothing, since I am coming as a friend, who cannot after-
wards attack those who have received him as such." I was the more
determined to keep my word because I was unwilling to make my
investigation of other physical mediums impossible by the publica-
tion of an unfavourable report on Frau Silbert. Unfortunately I
enlarged on this error by a second one, in that I did not tell Messrs
Haslinger and Walter after the sittings exactly what I had observed.
The sittings had in fact left me no doubt about the nature of the pheno-
July 1931 Correspondence 113
mena produced, but I could not bring myself to tell these gentlemen,
who regard the medium as a saint, that the woman they honour is a
swindler. I only sent them some hints on my observations, and thus
my considerate letters to them are to some extent contradictory of the
report I finished writing on 15 April 1929. Although the report was
not intended for publication, I showed it at that time in confidence to
three parapsychologists.
When I read the manuscript of Prof. Haslinger's attack on you I
at last wrote to him to inform him of my observations, and pointed
out to him the unfairness of his controversial methods, which were
only possible " because besides myself there are others who are
prevented by personal considerations from publishing their observa-
tion of Frau Silbert's untrustworthiness." It would certainly have
been better if I had told Herr Haslinger in this letter that if he pub-
lished his trivial attack I should no longer be able to keep silence.
There were two reasons why I did not do so : in the first place I had
not yet persuaded myself to take this course, and in the second place
I expected that under the circumstances Herr Haslinger would
spontaneously release me from my promise. As he did not do so
and as he did not withdraw his attack, I at last made up my mind
to write and tell him that I could no longer continue the silence I
had maintained for two years. Nor could his protest against my
breach of our agreement persuade me to support by silence the
unscientific attacks of the fanatical defendants of Frau Silbert.
I regret the necessity for these personal explanations : but they can
serve to help the cause of scientific psychical research. For all these
consideratenesses, of which I present a notable example, falsify
science. I know that in a report favourable to Frau Silbert sus-
picious movements of the medium, which, it is true, seemed unim-
portant to the writer, remained unmentioned, because the observer
was unwilling to grieve the medium and her friends. I also know
that another of those who has reported on Frau Silbert in a completely
positive sense, is persuaded of the genuineness of only some of the
phenomena, and has observed other things which appeared to him
highly suspicious. So long as we report in this one-sided way,
paraphysical phenomena will never be taken seriously. I hope that
the printing of my own sins will persuade other parapsychologists
that it is our solemn duty to publish without touching up all our
experiences : any other procedure is a crime against the spirit of true
science. We must refuse any proposal by a medium involving the
non-publication of unfavourable results, even if we are then allowed
to see nothing.
It is impossible to communicate the whole of my material in a
letter, and a selection from all three of my sittings might appear
one-sided. I therefore send you the report of my second sitting,
114 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1931
omitting only some repetitions and other unessential details. The
following report of the sitting on 28 March 1929, at Professor Has-
linger's, is based on twelve pages of notes, mostly taken during the
sitting.
Haslinger's very heavy table has a strong cross-piece under it.
To my astonishment Haslinger, before the sitting, increased the size
of the table top by adding leaves. Under these circumstances Frau
Silbert, who was to sit at one of the narrow ends, would have been
so far from the feet of the table and from the cross-piece as to make
it much more difficult for her to lift the table with crossed knees and
to use the cross-piece or feet of the table fraudulently as a lever or
as a sounding board. According to the impressions formed at my
first sitting I expected that Frau Silbert would ask to sit in the middle
of the long side of the table or would object to the lengthening of it
;
she took the latter course. At my request the tablecloth was re-
moved. In addition to myself, the following were present : Frau
Silbert, an aunt of Haslinger's, Professor Hasbnger, his father, Frau
Walter, Professor Walter, and Frau Krones. Frau Silbert sat
alone at one of the narrow ends of the table, with myself on her right
and Haslinger's aunt on her left. After we took our seats we heard
raps. Frau Silbert thought that they came from the wall behind her,
which I was unable to corroborate. Of a rap on the table in her
immediate neighbourhood she declared that it came from the other
end of the table. Each sitter greeted the Control Nell with a "Gott
zum Gruss " and three knocks on the table. Each time there came
answering raps from Frau Silbert's neighbourhood. The aunt's
foot was touched eleven times. Walter proposed that we should sit
closer to the table, which troubled me, as I sat far back to facilitate
observation. Frau Silbert pointed behind her and spoke of raps
from outside ; I did not hear them there. Haslinger advised that
the lamp standing on a table behind me should be removed, because
it threw light under the table ! There was now a lamp only on the
seance table. Haslinger, next to his aunt, was touched on the knee.
The table moved, but it was very dark under it, though after a little
time the eye became accustomed to this. The aunt had put a little
bell on the floor near Frau Silbert, and this bell now rang. I put
a bigger bell near my foot, where I could see it. Frau Silbert said,
" Strange that to-day everything is happening on the left side," that
is, on the side of the aunt. The little bell between the aunt and Frau
Silbert moved, but when I rose to see this phenomenon nothing
happened, though the movement began again when I sat down.
Raps on wood in the immediate neighbourhood of Frau Silbert
;
renewed raps were interpreted by some as a wish for darkness,
which I supposed to be due to the fact that I was constantly looking
under the table. The wish, however, was not obeyed. Alleged
July 1931 Correspondence 1 LI
raps in the wall always appeared to me to come from below Frau
Silbert. One after the other we asked Nell whether we were
satisfactorily seated, and each one accompanied his question with
three raps on the table, which Nell answered. Walter thought that
Nell's replies were rapped close to each sitter, but I always heard
the raps in the immediate neighbourhood of Frau Silbert. The little
bell was heard again, and Frau Silbert declared it to be out of her
reach, although it stood practically next to her feet. At Haslinger's
request, following an order from Nell, I changed seats with the aunt.
Hitherto all the phenomena had taken place on Frau Silbert's left,
and he wanted to move me closer to them. This change of seating
appeared to me suspicious, for the lighting on the aunt's side was
worse, since the lamp stood nearer my edge of the table.
Nell asked for darkness, Frau Silbert contradicted this, but we
obeyed Nell. In complete darkness we heard many raps and also
the bell under the table just as Haslinger mentally asked for a
phenomenon. The lamp on the table was again lit. I put the bigger
bell near me on the cross-piece, and Frau Silbert showed me how she
held her feet in the dark during the phenomena ! The small bell,
which was now near the aunt, was heard. After this Frau Silbert
again showed how she had held her feet during the phenomenon ;
Haslinger directed the light of a pocket lamp on the now quite
innocent feet ! Then the bell near me fell from the cross-piece ;
some thought it had been swung, which would have required the
use of both the medium's feet. While I happened to be looking
away the bell again fell. As if in reply to my unexpressed suspicion
Frau Silbert picked up the bell with both feet and dropped it with
the words, " Like this it falls at once " !
I put my watch on the cross-piece. Many touches were felt by
the aunt while the medium's feet were quite near her (the aunt).
Haslinger announced raps everywhere, which to me, however, all
appeared to come from the cross-piece. I looked quickly under the
table and saw Frau Silberfs foot on the cross-piece, from which it
quickly withdrew. It was arranged that the aunt and I again
exchange our seats. While we were doing this there were strong
movements' of the table. I now again sat at Frau Silbert's right.
There followed a luminous phenomenon under the table. But the
medium now had one hand under it, whereas till now her hands had
practically always been on the table. There were several table
movements, but when I looked under the table nothing more
happened. In order to dissipate the resulting suspicion, the medium
explained that such lifting of the table could not be produced even
with both feet. As I wrote this down the table was again lifted a
little. Such movements are easily produced with crossed knees. I
again looked under the table ;
nothing happened. Then I pretended
1 1 G Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1931
to be quite inattentive, whereupon I noticed Frau Silbert's foot
on the cross-piece, from which it quickly withdrew ; the medium
again explained that it is impossible to lift the table with one's feet.
The little bell was heard between Frau Silbert's feet, and she tried
to give the impression that it had been moved backwards. I
thought that she had put the little bell in her left skirt pocket and
wanted to verify this. As this was impossible from my place I
pretended that the bell might have flown behind a clock which
stood behind the aunt. I walked round the table in order, appa-
rently, to search behind the clock. As Frau Silbert thought me
occupied I saw her manipulate the bell, though I was unable to
discover the pocket I had suspected. Frau Silbert appeared to have
seen my glance and adroitly threw the bell at Frau Krones, who stood
next to the chair I had left. As the bell fell near her Frau Krones
said that it had hit her fairly high on the thigh under her skirt,
and had fallen from there. The explanation is apparently as follows:
Frau Krones was hit on the thigh, looked down, saw the bell, which
had in the meantime fallen to the edge of the skirt, and consequently
thought that it had fallen from within the skirt. As I made notes
of this occurrence the table again rose, but this never occurred when
I looked under the table. There was now an interval for tea, with
cessation of the phenomena.
When the sitting began again the lamp was on the table. Frau
Silbert thought that there were raps on the carpet behind her, but
I did not hear them. The little bell fell from the cross-piece, and
Frau Silbert showed by stretching her foot almost as far as the place
at which the little bell had previously stood, that she could not reach
so far with her foot. Now I heard raps of somewhat different kinds
under the table, but Frau Silbert said that the raps were behind her.
I saw her foot on the cross-piece moving back from it, whereupon the
raps ceased. Walter put a fiddle and bow on the floor under the
tatle. We heard raps, and when I looked under the table I once
more saw Frau Silbert's foot withdrawing from the cross-piece.
The violin bow, one end of which was at Frau Silbert's feet, moved.
I heard boots rubbing against each other. Frau Silbert explained
that the movements of the bow could not have been produced by her
feet, which was absurd in view of their position. Walter said that
he was delighted that I was having such a good sitting. Frau Sil-
bert pointed behind her, but the raps came from below her. During
further raps I glanced twice under the table and twice saw the
medium's left foot (that further from me) withdrawing from the
cross-piece. Nell asked for darkness, and, as is always the case in
darkness, we had to form a chain, whereas in light the sitters' hands
remained free on the table. This can hardly be explained otherwise
than by Frau Silbert's desire to know that all hands are controlled.
July 1931 Correspondence 117
This is the more probable as Haslinger had prepared a pocket lamp
which I was to have used unexpectedly, which was made rather
difficult when Frau Silbert held my left hand and Frau Krones my
right one. The medium gave me her feet to control, but she did not
clasp my left foot with both her feet. She put the points of her feet
against one side of my foot, possibly hoping that I would not notice
the removal of one of her feet. But I moved my foot in such a way
that I was able to feel in succession the pressure of each of her feet,
so that I at once observed when she removed one of her feet. As
she did so I was touched on the knee and then the curtain immedi-
ately behind Frau Silbert was moved. As she noticed that I was
feeling for her foot it came back, whereupon the phenomena ceased.
During the curtain phenomena Frau Silbert declared that she saw
the beginning of a phantom, but nobody else saw it. During the
same period of darkness a light appeared suddenly to come from the
same curtain behind the medium ;
but before this she had released
her hands from the chain and had moved them to about a yard from
the curtain.
Towards the end of the period of darkness my watch appeared
in Frau Silbert's hand ;
immediately before this we had observed
a light coming from the same hand. But as before this the chain had
been broken for a minute she could in this time have taken the watch,
previously moved from the cross-piece with her feet. On this the
sitting ended.
I must observe that my notes on the period of darkness were
written partly after the sitting, partly the following morning ;
their sequence is therefore possibly not so accurate as that of the
earlier part of the sitting. As a curiosity I add that once, as Frau
Silbert noticed that I saw her foot leaving the cross-piece after raps
had been heard, she knocked on the foot of the table to show the
difference between genuine and fraudulent raps. But this hardly
impressed me, since Frau Silbert can vary the raps as she pleases.
How low an opinion this woman must have of her investigators when
she offers them such childish comparisons ! To the objection that I
allowed Frau Silbert to cheat instead of really controlling her I reply
that one person is not enough for this purpose.
Unless it be suggested that I have fabricated the above described
indicia and direct observations of fraud, which are substantiated
by the testimony of Dr Prince and yourself, everybody will agree
that Frau Silbert frequently gives purely fraudulent sittings, and
many will no doubt be inclined to regard the whole case as farcical.
But the problem is not so simple as that ; an English expert in
conjuring told me that for some time it was difficult for him to pene-
trate Frau Silbert's tricks. I cannot think that such transparent
sittings as mine were then in question. Further, a continental
118 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1931
conjurer of international reputation, who does not believe in physical
phenomena, told me that he has obtained engravings of objects and
has heard raps whilst himself controlling Frau Silbert, and that all
normal explanations fail him. As Dr Tischner's experiences
(Zeitschriftfur Para'psychologie, Iv. 322 ff .) also are not to be explained
by means of childish tricks, it may be worth investigating whether
such phenomena are genuine, or whether they are produced by subtle
tricks, with or without accomplices. This can only be decided by
means of numerous sittings with adequate control above and below
the table. The supporters of the mediumship must recognise that
there could be no stronger argument against the existence of
genuine phenomena than the fact that since the publication of
Dr Prince's report (January 1928) obviously no such sittings can
have taken place, since Herr Haslinger in his article restricts himself
to general considerations and to personal disparagements of you.
Finally, I congratulate you on your reserve in face of the coarse
attacks of Frau Silbert's disciples and on your refusal to take any
notice of these personal polemics, and I join myself to you in this
determination, while I remain willing to give the reports of further
sittings unprejudiced consideration.
With the expression of my warmest sympathy,
I remain, yours very sincerely,
Rudolf Lambert.
[Translated by Th. B.]
REVIEWS.
Max Dessoir, Vom Jenseits der Seele : die Geheimwissenschaften in
Jcritischer Betrachtung. 8vo, pp. xiv. 562, 4 plates. Sixth,
revised edition. Stuttgart : Ferdinand Enke, 1931. Price
M. 16 unbound, M. 18 bound.
The previous edition of Professor Dessoir's well-known book was
reviewed in the Proceedings, xxxii. 146. The present sixth edition
has been very extensively revised and enlarged, though the index
has unfortunately been very badly pared down. (It is rather odd,
by the way, that notwithstanding the comparatively restricted
interest in Germany in scientific psychical research, a book such as
this, which maintains a high critical standard, should have gone into
six editions in about fourteen years.) As Professor Dessoir's general
attitude and treatment have already been described by Professor
Schiller in the above-mentioned review, it is perhaps only necessary
to refer to a few points of special interest.
At pages 78-9 Professor Dessoir discusses the experiments in
thought-transference with Professor Gilbert Murray, and suggests
that the successes obtained may be due to cryptomnesia. Since the
July 1931 Reviews 119
subject chosen for telepathic transmission is not selected, of course,
by Professor Murray himself, it is a little difficult to follow Professor
Dessoir's suggestion. In view of the almost universal tendency
amongst serious students of psychical research to reject a physical
explanation of telepathy, it is interesting to find Professor Dessoir
(p. 86) proposing a physical explanation based on the possible trans-
mission by the human organism of as yet unknown radiations of a
structure sufficiently complex to enable them to convey even in-
volved ideas.
The reader may be excused for feeling some alarm at being con-
fronted with yet another term, and such a term ! , for psychometry :
palaeoaesthetic clairvoyance (pp. 112 ff.). If Professor Dessoir is
content to use the word Hellsehen (clairvoyance) in senses by no
means always corresponding to the literal meaning of the word, on
the ground, presumably, that it has now attained historical re-
spectability, is it not more convenient to allow the same considerations
to apply to the word psychometry, which is also of fair antiquity \
In a brief discussion (p. 137) of dowsing, Professor Dessoir very judi-
ciously explains the difficulties in the way of a physical explanation.
The author gives a lengthy account of clairvoyance in the service of
medical diagnosis, with special reference to Frau Elisabeth Frankl
(pp. 152 ff.). Dr Kroner was good enough to give me a demon-
stration of Frau FrankTs faculty in 1928, but although I thought
highly of the results I did not feel competent to report on them. I
therefore note with special interest that Professor Dessoir is im-
pressed by this lady's performance.
Professor Dessoir's attempt (pp. 187 ff.) at a theory of clairvoyance
follows, in its temporal aspects, the lines of Professor Broad's doc-
trine of the specious present. To his chapter on Mrs Piper the
author has added in the present edition one on Mrs Leonard (pp.
196 ff.), in which he discusses her mediumship in some detail. Of
the White case, in particular, he gives a full and very just account.
Professor Dessoir suggests that there is sometimes to be found, in the
analysis of mediumistic records, a desire " to find a correspondence
at all costs." And he cites, as an example, the notice printed in our
Journal, xxv. 49-50. Here, it must be confessed, the author has
too hastily jumped to a conclusion. A reference to p. 160 of the same
volume of the Journal would have shown Professor Dessoir that the
purpose of the notice to which he refers was not so naive as he fears.
Professor Dessoir also discusses at some length the S.P.R. cross-
correspondences (pp. 211 ff.). Unfortunately, the case he selects
for detailed consideration, " One Crowded Hour of Glorious Life,"
is by no means the best that has been printed The author quotes
Mr A. F. Hall's ideal case, though not without showing appreciation
of the impossibilist nature of Mr Hall's demands. In his discussion
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1931
(pp. 226 ff.) of the sp»irit hypothesis, Professor Dessoir comes very
definitely to the conclusion that the case is not proven.
Turning to the paraphysical phenomena, Professor Dessoir has
added to his previous chapters on Slade, Eusapia Palladino and Anna
Rothe, further chapters on Heinrich (a German wartime poltergeist
medium), Maria Silbert, Willi and Rudi Schneider, Guzik, Kluski,
Eleonora Zugun, Mirabelli, and Margery. With all these mediums,
except Mirabelli, the author has had personal experience, and with
all of them he comes to an adverse conclusion, though in the case of
Margery his views are only hinted at (p. 336). Professor Dessoir
has somewhat enlarged his chapters on fraud, conjuring, mediumistic
psychology, etc., but they remain substantially as they were. His
theoretical application of the psychology of testimony to psychical
research (pp. 339 ff.) is particularly interesting.
The remaining portions of Professor Dessoir's book deal with
historical and philosophical questions (the Kabala, Christian Science,
anthroposophy, magical idealism) with which we are only indirectly
concerned.
Professor Dessoir, who has been a Corresponding Member of the
Society for over forty years, has spent nearly half a century in the
active study and investigation of psychical research. This new
edition of his book is a practically complete survey of the subject,
written in the light of the author's exceptional knowledge and
experience, and from a consistently impartial and critical point of
view. It is probably the best modern textbook we have, and is
certainly one that should be read by all who can follow the author's
simple and lucid German. A translation into English is greatly to
be desired. Theodore Besterman.
" Ephesian " (C. E. Bechhofer Roberts), The Mysterious
Madame : a Life of Madame Blavatsky. 8vo, pp. vii. 241,
portrait. London : John Lane, 1931. Price 7s. 6d. net.
The compilation of a short biography of Mme Blavatsky presents
exceptional difficulties. For the first forty years of her life, roughly
two-thirds of the whole, the verifiable facts are most incomplete.
She herself discouraged inquiry into them, and such accounts as she
from time to time vouchsafed to her followers proved on examination
to be largely unverifiable and often untrue. For the latter part of her
life, that is, from her arrival in New York in 1873, the facts are
clearer, and the biographer's principal task is to arrive at a fair
estimate of her complex psychology.
Mr Bechhofer Roberts may be congratulated on the way in which
he has discharged both parts of his task. The reader's interest is
well sustained throughout the book. The narrative of H.P.B.'s
earlier life is as lucid as her mystifications permit it to be, and the
July 1931 Reviews 121
estimate of her motives and character in the concluding chapter
shows an evident desire to be fair, and may with some qualifications
be accepted.
It would have been better if Mr Bechhofer Roberts had more
often given us chapter and verse for the conflicting statements as to
H.P.B.'s life before the foundation of the Theosophical Society ;
and in dealing with H.P.B.'s relations with the S.P.R. he is guilty of
a few inaccuracies. F. W. H. Myers was never " Professor," and
we should like to know Mr Bechhofer Robert's authority for the
statement that he was at any time a theosophist.
In his concluding chapter the author pays a just tribute to H.P.B.'s
courage and resource in the face of long continued poverty and
illness. He is probably right in acquitting her of mercenary motives
and of being an agent of the Russian Government ;
opportunity for
this was lacking, if not inclination. On the question of her sincerity
he is perhaps too charitable. She very possibly believed in the value
of the doctrine she borrowed without acknowledgment from any
handy source. But that she had any faith in the marvels by which
she sought to gain acceptance for those doctrines, we find it hard to
believe. Mr Bechhofer Roberts says that " many mediums who
show themselves wholly upright in their ordinary life, resort to
trickery to maintain their psychic prestige." We think this over-
states the case ;
" trance-deception " and " subconscious fraud
"
are usually mere polite periphrases. Even, however, if we allow
that they are sometimes more than this, there is no parallel between
occasional acts of simulation done in trance or some similar state,
and persistent trickery, involving careful preparation and collusion
with other persons, carried out for many years while H.P.B. was in,
for her at least, a " normal " mental state. W. H. Salter.
Alfred Adler, The Pattern of Life. Edited by W. Beran Wolfe.
8vo, pp. 271. London : Kegan Paul, 1931. Price 8s. 6d. net.
The aim of this book is to give a summary of Professor Adler's
" individual psychology," and to give students an opportunity of
reading some case histories of difficult and problem children and of
studying Dr Adler's therapeutic method.
A clear and sympathetic introduction by the editor will enable
those who are unfamiliar with Dr Adler's psychological theory to
realise its main outlines ; and if the compression which was necessary
in order to present a whole philosophy of human nature in iO pages
has led to an effect of over-generalization, it will still prove a stimu-
lating introduction to Dr Adler's fruitful and illuminating science
of human motives. The case histories which follow and which illus-
trate the theories that have been expounded in the Introduction,
have been taken from the records of cases of problem children who
122 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1031
were brought to Dr Adler by physicians and teachers in New York
and treated by Dr Adler during his visit to the New School of Social
Research. Representative cases have been chosen by Dr Beran
Wolfe to illustrate the " patterns of life " (that is, the methods of
behaviour) unconsciously adopted by the children. These are of
great interest. Many readers of works on individual psychology
must have felt the need of further information on the practical
application of the theory ; till now it has been difficult to have access
to such material as it has been confined to the German publications
of Adler and his pupils. Readers therefore will be grateful to the
editor for having realised this need and for having met it in a clear
and attractive form.
Apart from its intrinsic interest the book is closely relevant to
psychic research. Much possible light might be thrown on the
otherwise puzzling motives behind dishonest mediumistic activities,
if we compared them with the activities of neurotic children and with
their mistaken methods of gaining attention and significance. Cases
of so-called " poltergeists " would I feel sure resolve themselves very
simply on analysis to a " pattern of life " (i.e method of behaviour)
adopted by a child at odds with his environment and anxious in some
way to dominate or intimidate its personnel. No case of polter-
geist is given in the present collection, but cases are mentioned of
children with a mania for throwing things about so that they should
in some way be the centre of disturbance and attention (p. 97). It
is a very short step from openly throwing an object for an ingenious
child to throw more unexpectedly and cleverly, and to impose on
superstitious parents and friends the idea that he is in league with
some spirit and not responsible. In this way he gains both prestige
and immunity for his misdeeds, and there can be little doubt after
studying these histories that these two motives are always the leading
ones in neurotic solutions of the problems of life. The case (p. 74)
of the boy with an invisible playmate, in connection with whom he
takes on a different voice and manner, is also interesting from the
point of view of psychical research.
The book can be warmly recommended to anyone interested in
either psychology or psychical research. It is a pity that for the sake
of brevity the editor omitted the exact form of the "protocol " or
preliminary presentation of the cases, but it can be fairly closely
surmised, and if a similar form could be adopted in all investigations
into poltergeist and other so called physical phenomena it might bring
some orderliness into a research which has so far made too little use of
the light given to us by orthodox psychology. Ina Jephson.
July 1931 Xotes on Periodicals 123
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Psychologische Rundschau, June, July, September 1930.
In these issues Dr Robert Schmitz reports on the Athens Congress.
He is very critical of most of the papers read, and complains that
much time was wasted on attempts to explain the phenomena,
whereas only two papers (read by members of the English delegation),
made any attempt to inquire into the status of the phenomena them-
selves. Dr Schmitz also criticises the Conference on the ground that
no actual demonstrations of phenomena were given : as if, he com-
plains, there were to be a conference of musicians without music.
He strongly urges that this omission should be remedied at the
London Congress of 1932. It may be suspected that Dr Schmitz does
not fully appreciate the difficulties involved in his proposal.
Psychic Research, November 1930.
Early in 1930 the American S.P.R. issued a questionnaire to its
members for the purpose of ascertaining their standing, beliefs, etc.
Dr Geo. H. Hyslop (who has since withdrawn from the American
Society's Board of Trustees) here reports on the 410 replies. Some
of these replies are very interesting, as throwing some Ught on the
great change that has taken place during recent years in the American
Society's attitude and publications.
One of the questions asked related to members' views on " the
occurrence of the phenomena studied by the Society." Of 440
persons whose replies are tabulated, 250 come under the heading of
" Believer " and 168 are " Favourably disposed," a total of 418.
Not a single member accepted the designation of " Disbeliever
"
and only 13 admitted themselves " Sceptical." It will be noticed
that all supernormal phenomena are lumped together ; it must
therefore be assumed that a " believer " believes in all such pheno-
mena, physical as well as mental.
The members were also asked whether they " accept the spirit-
istic hypothesis as an explanation of any of the phenomena." No
less than 301 of those who replied do so accept it. The use of the
word " any " is a little ambiguous in this question ;
presumably it
is understood to mean " any one."
It is interesting to note that of those members of the American
S.P.R. who replied 65 per cent, have had " personal psychic experi-
ence " ; 80 per cent, have sat with mediums ; 75 members have had
more than 300 sittings ; some have had a total running into thou-
sands of sittings.
124 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1931
Psychological Bulletin, May 1931.
Mr Paul Campbell Young, of Louisiana State University, reviews
135 books and articles on hypnotism and suggestion. It appears-
from his survey that there is still great need for investigation in this
field, and that the use of hypnotism is still suffering from its post-
psychoanalytical decline. Under the elegant heading, " Occult
Hold-Overs," Mr Young deplores the fact that in spite " of time and
derision the old notions that hypnosis brings with it mysterious
powers, such as clairvoyance, telepathy, and other manifestations
linked up with the theory of animal magnetism, still persists.
Among these manifestations the writer, for no apparent reason,,
cites the discussion of the fire-walk in our Journal for June 1928.
Mr Young also refers to the refutation of Alrutz's views about the
direct influence of mesmeric passes, but only mentions a brief
preliminary report and not the full one published in volume xxxvi of
Proceedings. It appears that an independent investigation in
Russia by D. Polinkovsky also procured only negative results. On
the other hand, there appears at the same time as Mr Young's
survey a paper entitled " Biological Sources of Radioactivity " in
the Archives of Physical Therapy (May 1931), xii. 272-8, by Dr R. A.
Waiters, of the Dr W. B. Johnston Foundation for Psychological
Research. Dr Watters's investigations appear to suggest the pres-
ence of biological radioactivity in man, plants, etc. Further details-
will be awaited with interest.
Luce e Ombra, May 1931.
Signor Emilio Servadio contributes an article on the present
state of psychical research, with special reference to what he calls the
" Besterman—S.P.R. case." The writer states that he has no wish to
dramatise the situation, but that he regards it as the first manifesta-
tion of a secret society propagating Bolshevism. This silly accusa-
tion is worth recording as a pendant to that made a few years ago
to the effect that the Society was in the pay of the Jesuits.
ERRATUM
Vol. xxvii, p. 97, line 27 : for opinion read episode.
No. 478.—Vol. XXVII. October 1931
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1,
ON
WEDNESDAY, 28 October 1931, at 5.30 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" IS PROOF OF SURVIVAL POSSIBLE ?
"
WILL BE READ BY
Mr H. F. SALTMARSH
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1931
THE SECOND MYERS MEMORIAL LECTURE.
The Second Myers Memorial Lecture, by Dr T. W. Mitchell, has
now been published under the title Beneath the Threshold. Copies
may be obtained from the Secretary, Society for Psychical Research,
31 Tavistock Square, W.C. 1, price Is. each ; remittances should be
enclosed with all orders.
Copies of the First Myers Memorial Lecture, Conviction of Sur-
vival, by Sir Oliver Lodge, are also obtainable as above, price
2s. each.
TWO INCIDENTS.
We are indebted for this case to Mr E. S. Thomas, a Member of the
Society, who reported it to us on 21 September 1930, as follows :
" 1. My cousin, Mr L. T. Parry Jones, headmaster of a school near
Birmingham, was taken ill on the evening of July 29th at the end
of the summer term (1930) after dismissing his servants preparatory
to going away. His sister Beatrice who kept house for him was
still with him. He went to a neighbouring nursing home. On
August 6th he became delirious, developing a complaint which left
little hope of recovery. He died on the night of Thursday, August
8th, without regaining consciousness. Mr F. B. Thornton, an
intimate friend and father of a pupil, had been to see him and knew
of the seriousness of his condition. He and L.P.J, had often in light
conversation talked of '
Crossing the Styx.' On the night of my
cousin's death he dreamt that he saw him crossing the Styx with
tall trees like totem poles on the opposite bank. He was dressed in
his ordinary clothes, and as he stepped ashore he turned and waved,
calling '
I'm over.'
" Later the same night he had a vivid dream-vision of L.P.J,
standing in the doorway with his mother. Mr Thornton had never
seen my aunt, nor a photograph of her. There was no photograph
of her in the living-rooms of the schoolhouse. He described her to
me as shorter than her son and with greying sandy hair. Both
items are correct, but the second is of more interest, 1
as L.P.J, was
a tall man. The next morning Mr Thornton told his wife of his
experiences before hearing of L.P.J. 's death. Mr Thornton had
many mediumistic experiences physical and visionary before his
1
[In reply to a question as to whether Mr Thornton could have any normal
reason for thinking Mrs Parry Jones's hair was likely to be sandy, Mr Thomas
writes on 2 October 1930 :
" I don't think Mr Thornton had any reason to
think my aunt had reddish hair. He met three of her daughters who kept
house at different times for P.J. The eldest certainly has dark auburn hair,
but the second's hair is dark brown and the third's black. P.J.'s hair was
light brown."]
October 1931 Two Incidents 127
marriage, since which he has deliberately discouraged such pheno-
mena on the grounds of health. My aunt died in 1924 at the age of 75."
To this statement was appended the following corroboration :
" The above facts are correct as far as they concern me."
[Signed] Frank B. Thornton.
Beatrice L. Thornton.
August 26th 1930."
Mr Thomas then continues :
" I heard of Mr Thornton's experiences when I was at Tenby
from L.P.J. 's sister Laura. He and his family had arranged to go
there with L.P.J. , and I met them and obtained the above signa-
tures from him and his wife personally. He consented to try and
recognise my aunt, whose appearance was quite unknown to him,
from photographs. A number of old family albums were available
at Tenby. From these I selected 15 photographs of contemporaries,
mostly relatives and acquaintances, of my aunt at various ages.
Among them were two of her. She was of stoutish habit, but
became very thin in body and face before her final illness. One of
the photographs was taken shortly before this change.
" I took the photographs in an envelope to Mr Thornton on the
beach and sat about two feet from him. I asked him to go through
them and see if any of them resembled her. I did not say that a
photograph of her was among them. I said there was a certain
family likeness common to the five sisters at all ages, and that was
why some of the photographs were of young women. I took care
not to see the faces of the photographs when he handled them. It
was drizzling and he began by going through them without remov-
ing them from the envelope. Before examining them all he handed
me one. I took it and asked him to take them out and go right
through them. He took them out. I turned away, and he very
quickly gave me a second. The first was of an elderly woman, who
I could, see bore a certain likeness to my aunt. My cousin tells me
she is very like her in life. Mr Thornton did not think it was a
photograph of my aunt, because the original was shingled and my
aunt was not. This he told me afterwards. The second was of a
very hollow-eyed person in whom I saw no likeness, but my cousin
saw a likeness in the eyes (when I last saw her she was thinner, but
not hollow-eyed). I again asked Mr Thornton to go through the
cards before making his decision. After a much longer interval,
during which I turned away from him as before, he remarked,
'
That's the one,' and handed me the last photograph (f face) taken
of my aunt. As he did so he withdrew the second photograph from
my knee. When I asked him the reason later, he did not remember
doing so.
128 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1931
"It is regrettable that he should have proceeded to make his
decision before going through the photographs.
" After this he gave me details of his vision : that he saw my
aunt in profile and with a hand on her son's arm. He also told me
for the first time that she had a shawl on. This only struck me
after leaving Tenby. Enquiries from L.J. [daughter] elicited the
fact that latterly she nearly always wore something over her
shoulders, as she had spasms of chill and would use anything handy
for a shawl. Apparently Mr Thornton told his wife it wasn't exactly
a shawl but a covering of some sort. 1
" 2. On August 22nd, 1930, my cousin Laura shewed me a copy
she had just made of a letter before returning it which Clementine
X, an Irish maid (R.C.) on the school staff had written to her sister
Beatrice from Glasgow. She had left at the end of term before
L.P.J, fell ill. In this letter (undated) she says :
" '
I am writing to see if there is anything the matter at the
school. ... I can't resist it, somehow. Every night as soon as ever
I fall asleep I dream about Mr Parry Jones. He seems to be with
me and he seems all changed, not like himself at all. So I wake up
startled, they have to call to me. ... As I should not like to think
he would have an accident or anything while he is away on holiday,
I am dreaming every night about the school I wrote to you. ... I
hope you won't think I'm mad writing you such rubbish, somehow
I could not help [keep ?] it. If you have a spare moment, please
write to me. Remember me to the Master.'
" This letter was probably written about August 18th. My
cousin L. wrote to Clementine at once, and at my request asked her
for details as to when these dreams began, and whether she had felt
anxious, etc. In her reply she apologised profusely for any pain
her letter may have caused them (B. and L., his sisters), explaining
her experience away as being of frequent occurrence and of no
significance. She made no attempt to answer the questions. I
learn from my cousins that Clementine had told one of her col-
leagues on the staff that she often had veridical dreams connected
with deaths. They both regarded her as psychic. It seems likely
that Clementine as a Roman Catholic obtained clerical advice before
she replied. She wrote later in similar strain to B. She had left
the school to be married, and felt it very much on parting. I learn
that although L.P.J, looked pale his friends attributed it to the
stress of the term's work and had no anxiety about his health.
[Signed] Ernest S. Thomas."
1
[These statements were contained in a letter from Miss L. Jones dated
16 September 1930. She writes :
" Mrs T. told me it wasn't exactly a shawl
her husban-l saw but a covering of some sort."]
October 1931 Two Incidents 129
Subsequently Mr Thomas wrote again on 18 October 1930, as
follows :
" LI. Parry Jones Case. I send you some further details re above.
Another sister of P.J., who had kept house for him, wrote to the
maid Clementine when she heard of her letter to my cousin B.J.,
and asked her (quite independently) if she could give her the dates
of her dreams.
" She received an answer (copy enclosed and undated) about
Sept. 21. C. had apparently regained her original feelings regarding
her experience.
" This cousin (Mrs Alkin) gives me the interesting information
that P.J. suffered from very bad (' terrible ') dreams before the
coma supervened and meningitis declared itself. As she suggests,
this may have influenced the tone of Clementine's vision : P.J.'s
distress of mind perhaps still pervading his subconsciousness at first
(when he '
impressed '
Clementine). She also confirms (without my
questioning) the statement I made that Clementine had a reputation
for '
dreaming true '
; she '
would often foretell the type of letter
she would [find] when she came down in the morning [from dreams
overnight].' She would '
know if there was anything wrong with
any member of her family before she heard '
[authority of a colleague
maid].
" In the letter enclosed she seems to distinguish between dreams
she still has of P.J. (of which she takes no notice) and the particular
experience when she woke shouting to which she refers in this
letter. She seems a very emotional type and not a good witness for
detail. [Signed] Ernest S. Thomas."
The copy of Clementine's letter to Mrs Alkin is as follows :
" I hope you will forgive me for not writing sooner, but I was
really so busy. . . .
" I am wondering how the school will go on this term without the
dear master. . . . Well it's very funny how I should dream of him
that time. I can't remember what date exactly, but my dear
master must have passed away at the time. I don't care what any
one says to try and convince me. He must have been near me, for
I woke up shouting to my sister, and she asked me what was wrong.
I'd been dreaming that he was in some trouble and he was asking
me to help him. But oh his dear face I will never forget it, it seemed
small and drawn somehow, and he was so changed. I dream now
about him sometimes, but of course I don't take any notice of
dreams. . . . [Signed] Clementine."
The evidence in the first of these two experiences is, as Mr Thomas
himself points out, weakened by the circumstances in which the
photograph was identified. Nevertheless, it seemed worth while to
put the incident on record because, taken in conjunction with the
130 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1931
experience of the maid Clementine, it rather suggests that Mr Parry
Jones may have been one of the people who have at some crisis of
their lives an exceptional faculty of impressing themselves upon
others in a supernormal way. A striking example of this type of
case is quoted by Mrs Sidgwick in her report on phantasms of the
living, Proceedings, xxxiii. 167 ff.
CORRESPONDENCE.
METHODS IN EXPERIMENTAL TELEPATHY.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—I have read with great interest Dr Gardner Murphy's
review (in Proceedings, xl. 99-104) of the Transactions of the Fourth
International Congress for Psychical Research, and I heartily endorse
his plea for a higher standard in the quality of the reports issued by
psychical researchers. I cannot think, however, that Dr Murphy
has been quite happy in his illustrations of what he apparently
considers to be sound scientific procedure. I refer especially to the
experiments of M. Rene Warcollier in the domain of telepathy.
Let me say at once that M. Warcollier is one of my valued friends
and if I am inspired to put on the gloves for a friendly bout with
him I hope he will not take it amiss. Moreover, when the report of
my own investigations appears, I shall welcome his criticisms in the
same amicable spirit. Not the least of the bonds between M.
Warcollier and myself has been our common interest in the subject
of experimental telepathy. Our methods of approach, however, are
so fundamentally different that I believe their relative merits and
defects would provide a fruitful subject for a discussion to which
I am hoping both Dr Murphy and M. Warcollier will be induced to
contribute.
I will begin, therefore, by describing just what impression the
work of M. Warcollier makes upon me who am neither a psycho-
logist nor an experimental physicist but a mathematician. I
recognise that M. Warcollier is extremely ingenious and fertile in
devising experiments, and that he has a lively gift of exposition,
which makes all that he writes of exceptional interest and peculiar
charm. This power of facile experimentation he shares with the
late Dr Crawford, and, though the two workers belong to widely
different fields, their basic methods are not altogether dissimilar.
I remember some years ago lending Crawford's Experiments in
Psychical Science to a young physicist of considerable distinction,
who had, however, no knowledge of psychical research. He read
the book carefully, and handed it back to me with remarks to the
October 1931 Corresponden ce 131
effect that lie thought Crawford's experiments quite ingenious and
admirably arranged to demonstrate the mechanics of psychic
levitation. And no doubt considered purely as experiments in
applied mechanics, Crawford's experiments were excellent, but
underlying all his work was a large fundamental assumption which
Crawford never adequately verified, and which grew more and more
tacit as time went on. This tacit assumption, of course, was the
assumption that the levitating agency was a supernormal force and
not a human leg. At the beginning Crawford may well have had
his doubts, but under the imperious hypnotism of his own theories,
these doubts soon faded into the background of his mind. But I
can quite imagine that to a physicist who had somehow become a
convert to the possibility of psychic levitation, Crawford's methods
would appear far more promising and hopeful than say those of
Dr Prince or Mr Besterman, whose entire energies would be devoted
to verifying the actual existence of the phenomenon.
Now it appears to me that underlying all M. Warcollier's work is
the tacit assumption that the mental coincidences he observes are
the result of some special causal nexus of a supernormal character
between two minds, and not the effect of that vast but indeterminate
concatenation of normal events which, in our ignorance, we call
chance.
We must note, in the first place, that the material with which M.
Warcollier has obtained most success consists of a series of sketches
made up of more or less complicated arrangements of curved and
straight lines, frequently intended to suggest concrete objects. In
the great majority of examples cited by him, success is claimed on
the ground that pairs of drawings executed in different places at
more or less the same time exhibit certain resemblances in shape.
As a rule it appears to be the form rather than the idea that is the
basis of coincidence. This resemblance is seldom exact but most
often of a sketchy or fragmentary kind. Frequently there is nothing
more than the embryonic suggestion of a similarity. This frag-
mentary nature of the resemblances M. Warcollier explains by
postulating that there is selection and analysis of the drawing to be
transmitted by the subconscious minds of the agent and percipient.
But if one goes on making vast numbers of experiments as M.
Warcollier has done, extending over a period of years, it is certain
that chance will produce coincidences of varying degrees of com-
plexity, and a judicious selection from the more successful results
would provide material for the illustration of any number of psycho-
logical theories. What, I wonder, would happen if all the drawings
ever made by M. Warcollier's agents and percipients in France,
Greece, England and America were copied on to similar slips of
cardboard, and these slips were thoroughly mixed in a large bag,
132 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1931
and then a number of pairs or trios were drawn out at random ?
I think it probable that I, as a sceptic, might find myself furnished
with enough material with which to illustrate the whole of M.
Warcollier's theories of mental contagion, fragmentation of the
image, influence of the imagination, etc., etc.
It is possible that the probability of occurrence of fragmentary
resemblances between pairs of drawings is greater than M. War-
collier imagines, especially when the sketches are at all involved.
Moreover, there is a further complication. So far as I am able to
gather from the somewhat scanty and inadequate records of the
individual experiments, the agents are chiefly guided in their
selection of the material of transmission by personal preference.
That is to say, one or other of the group chooses an object or design
which has impressed him at about the time of the experiments, or
which he selects as suitable for testing some psychological theory.
Well, in a civilised community we are all subject to common in-
fluences. We read the same newspapers, listen to the same pro-
grammes on the radio, gaze at the same advertisements on the
Metro., etc. Two persons, therefore, may produce drawings with
features of resemblance merely because a day or two previously
they had both been impressed by the same hoarding in a public
place. When the evening of the experiments arrives the two persons
may have forgotten what they had seen, but the impression made
upon their minds may still be sufficiently active to stimulate similar
trains of thought, and in the sketches which they produce they will
not recognize the true source of their inspiration. Thus we may
arrive at a normal explanation of the coincidences which have led
M. Warcollier to his theory of " mental contagion."
Further, when the members of a small group of persons who
experiment together for months and years are constantly comparing
their drawings and impressions, they will tend to become tolerably
familiar with each other's mental preferences and idiosyncrasies.
Hence the members of such a group will produce sketches which
show a greater and greater degree of similarity. The believer in
telepathy will interpret this as the slow growth of " l'accord tele-
pathique."
Again, there may be in the group pairs of persons with a similar
artistic make-up in their mentalities. Such pairs may produce more
than the average number of coincidences and this will give rise
to the belief in "couples telepathiques."
The remedy, of course, for these latter complications would be
the selection by hazard of the sketches to be transmitted from a
very large number compiled by a great variety of types of mind,
but it does not seem clear that M. Warcollier has taken this pre-
caution in arranging his experiments.
October 1931 Correspondence 133
Very significant and disconcerting is the fact that M. Warcollier's
groups do not succeed in experiments with numbers, playing cards,
etc., where the chances are definite and easily estimated. Psycho-
logical reasons based upon the interference of mental habit and
individual preference may, of course, be invoked to account for
this, but it is surely very strange that in the early days of the
S.P.R. apparently most successful results were obtained with
playing cards and numbers.
But a much more potent reason suggests itself to account for M.
Warcollier's failure with numbers, capital letters, etc. It is that
such material is perfectly clear cut, and does not permit of the
experimenters claiming equivocal successes on the score that an
associated idea has emerged in the mind of the percipient. If the
agent thinks of letter A and the percipient sees an S, it is not at all
easy to convince the reader that any telepathy has taken place.
If, however, the American group thinks of a cobra and M. War-
collier has the impression of, say, exotic birds and climbing plants,
how easy to explain this by saying that exotic birds were associated
in the mind of the agent with the idea of a cobra.1
The truth is, of
course, that every human mind is a perfect network of associations,
and it is possible by using a very little ingenuity to find occasion
for linking together even the most incongruous ideas. What
apparent connection, for instance, is there between mathematics
and a tiger 1 But I can easily find one in my own mind. A tiger
suggests to me Blake's poem, and the lines which I most readily
recall are these :
" What immortal hand or eye
Dare frame thy fearful symmetry ?
"
And the words " symmetry " and symmetrical are constantly being
used by mathematicians.
When, therefore, M. Warcollier tells us that in place of the actual
image transmitted by the agent an associated idea may emerge in
the consciousness of the percipient, unless that association is as
obvious as " sea " and " ship," or
'''
Indian " and " wigwam," I
shall remain frankly sceptical.
But my main criticism must be that M. Warcollier has provided
us with no scientific criteria by which to judge whether the coinci-
dences he observes are due to telepathy or not. He does, indeed,
sometimes in a casual way refer to percentages of successes, but he
furnishes us with no control series with which to compare the results
of his experiments considered in the mass. It is certain that he
must have had large numbers of failures. This I can definitely
vouctrfor by the records of his two years' work with my own group.
1
R. Warcollier, La Telepathie a tres grande distance, p. 6.
134 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1931
What he has given us in his various reports is, for the most partT
a selection of successful cases apparently chosen for the express
purpose of illustrating and supporting certain ingenious psycho-
logical theories. To a professional psychologist like Dr Gardner
Murphy these theories doubtless appeal just as Crawford's theories
of X-matter and F-matter interest a physicist. But to the mathe-
matical mind, accustomed to think in precise terms and to express
its beliefs in the language of the calculus of probabilities, the
methods of my friend M. Warcollier will seem inadequate.
Outside the ideal abstractions of pure mathematics there can be
no absolute certitude in our findings about facts in the concrete
world but only varying degrees of probability, and the aim of a
truly scientific method must be to reach a numerical expression of
the degree of probability attained by our experiments. Only thus
can we hope to rise from the region of opinion into that of real
knowledge.
I have recently completed an investigation in long-distance
telepathy with over 600 persons and lasting over a period of two
years. I have experimented with many different kinds of material.
I have examined hundreds of mental coincidences, and had I so
chosen nothing would have been easier than for me to have " psycho-
logised " over these coincidences much after the manner of my
friend M. Warcollier. But the extensive series of control experi-
ments which were interpolated among the genuine attempts at
transmission and the subsequent evaluation of the results by the
known methods of statistical analysis, have shown conclusively that
the coincidences observed were not to be attributed to any super-
normal faculty, but were to be considered as the work of chance
and common environment.
Although my percipients have followed closely the passive
methods of reception advocated by M. Warcollier himself, and
although (like certain of M. Warcollier's own group) some 353 of
these percipients claimed to have had interesting psychic experi-
ences at various periods of their lives, I have been totally unable to
confirm M. Warcollier's conclusions either as to the supposed fact
of experimental transmission of thought from the group of agents
to the percipients, or as to the supposed phenomena of " mental
contagion " among the percipients themselves.
I am prepared to believe that a very few specially endowed people
like Mrs Leonard possess the faculty of telepathic perception, and
that it occasionally operates between persons who are for all ap-
parent purposes of normal mentality, but I am not prepared to
admit that it is so common a human faculty that it can be experi-
mented with like memory or intelligence or attention. One of the
most cogent reasons why official science has neglected these super-
October 1931 Correspondence 135
normal phenomena is surely the extreme rarity with which they
happen. I suppose in this country there are not more than a dozen
persons who produce phenomena that would repay any sort of
systematic investigation by a scientific man.
Now I ask Dr Murphy what hope there would be of discovering
a cure for cancer if not more than, say, one person per five million
ever suffered from it % And our problem is infinitely more difficult.
The patient with cancer can at least be observed as long as he lives
and experimented with, but in the case of your psychic you can
never be sure even of getting any phenomena to examine.
In view of the astonishing discrepancy between my own experi-
ments and those of M. Warcollier, I earnestly hope that M. War-
collier may see his way in the near future to undertake such a series
of control experiments as will either confirm or confute his funda-
mental hypothesis of telepathy.
Yours, etc.,
S. G. Soal.
MODERN SCIENCE AND ;
'
SURVIVAL."
To the Editor o/The Journal.
Sir,—I have been wondering if anyone would draw attention, for
its bearing on our subject, to a passage at the end of Sir James
Jeans's recent little book The Mysterious Universe. The passage
I mean is the following :
" Many would hold that, from the broad philosophical stand-
point, the outstanding achievement of twentieth century physics is
not the theory of relativity with its welding together of space and
time, or the theory of quanta with its present apparent negation of
the laws of causation, or the dissection of the atom with its resultant
discovery that things are not what they seem ;
it is the general
recognition that we are not yet in contact with ultimate reality
"
(p. 127).
The " yet " in this passage seems as if it can hardly refer to the
possible achievements of posterity—as so many scientific " yets
"
in the past have done—since posterity, occupying the same environ-
ment as ourselves, will not be in contact with reality either. Sir
James Jeans had just previously said that our universe or space-
time continuum was beginning to look like a sort of shadow in four
dimensions of something in more.
Since this obviously leaves open the door to possible contact with
reality in some circumstances, many may regard it as offering
definite support of the survival hypothesis. To me it seems rather
to raise a question whether " survival " may be quite the right
136 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1931
word, to suggest that we may, in fact, be living in a higher degree
of reality, in more dimensions than four, though, in our immediate
shade of consciousness, we are not aware of it—any more than in
the dream shade we are aware of the waking shade. It is perhaps
hardly possible to avoid the speculation that death, like waking,
may make us aware, may enable us to perceive this as the shadow
of that.
Be that as it may, it is at least manifest that twentieth century
science has moved a long way from the old materialism, which used
to be rather a stumbling-block in the way of our investigations.
Yours, etc.,
Hubert Wales.
PHANTASMS OF THE BLIND.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir, —I should be glad to know if any of our Members have come
across credible evidence of the phantasm of a blind man, either in
his lifetime or after.
The question seems to me to be important as the theory that a
man's wraith or ghost is a telepathic projection of what he thinks
or thought his visual aspect to be is a plausible one and has some
confirmation in experiments with hypnotized patients, but this
explanation would hardly hold in the case of a man blind from his
birth.
The test case would be that of a man blinded in youth, who
could have no visual knowledge of the changes time had made in
his appearance. Would his projected phantasm be still that of a
young man ?
I take it that most of us would welcome any evidence that the
occasionally distressing aspect of phantasms of the dead had no
real counterpart in a future existence.
Yours, etc.,
Lewis C. Powles.
MISS CUMMINS'S AUTOMATIC WRITING.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir, —In his recently published book, The Messiah Jesus, Dr
Eisler brings to light a " censored " passage concerning the physical
appearance of Jesus. Dr Eisler claims to have recovered these
details from a repressed text in the " Slavonic " Josephus. So far
as I know, the only translation from German into English of the
passage referred to (before the publication of the work in England),
appeared in The Quest for October 1929.
October 1931 Correspondence 137
It may interest your readers to know that a similar description
was written automatically by Miss Cummins in November 1926.
This description appears on pages 72 and 73 of Paul in Athens,
published last year. The translation of 1929 and the automatic
script of 1926 run as follows :
" He was a man of plain appearance, ripe age, with dark com-
plexion, small stature, three ells high, bent back, long face, longish
nose, eyebrows grown together so that those who looked at him
could be dismayed, scanty hair, with a parting in the middle after
the style of the Nazirs, and immature beard " (The Quest).
" There was no marvel in the glance of his eye, no wonder in the
shaping of his countenance. He was crooked of body, ill-pleasing
to behold, with long woman's hair divided in the middle of the
crown. His neck drooped and his nose was like the beak of a bird.
He resembled many score of lowly men whom you will encounter
in the market place and in the streets of your town. ..." (Paul in
Athens).
Coming as they do from entirely different sources, it must be
admitted that there is a curious resemblance between these two
accounts.
The question now arises, how did the mind of the automatist
pick up this entirely unexpected picture of a hitherto uniquely
idealised and beautiful Figure ? Miss Cummins knows no Russian,
Greek, or Hebrew. Her German is limited to a knowledge of the
meaning of a few words in that language. Until last June she had
never set foot in Germany. Moreover, she has never studied
Christian origins nor is she in the least interested in Church history.
Her normal mind is entirely concerned with literature of a modern
character, more especially the drama. Only Mrs Champion de
Crespigny and myself were present at the time of this writing. Mrs
de Crespigny assures me that she had never seen anywhere in print,
nor had she ever conceived in her mind, such a description of Jesus
as was written on that occasion. For myself, I can only affirm that
my knowledge of historical facts pertaining to early Christian
history is absolutely nil.
It would seem, therefore, that the only explanation possible (if
we exclude the cryptesthetic faculty and the spiritistic hypothesis),
would be that of telepathy from some outside source. In which
case Miss Cummins would have to be in telepathic communication
with Mr G. R. S. Mead, who had apparently studied the German
text of The Messiah Jesus, with Dr Eisler himself, or with some other
scholar cognisant of these details. I myself have had some startling
evidence of the astonishing accuracy with which, at times, my
thoughts have been picked up by other people, though never as the
result of deliberate experiment.
138 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1931
But if we admit this theory as the explanation, it must also be
asked, why was other information not as accurately derived from
the same source and committed to paper on the same occasion ?
Notably when (page 76) Miss Cummins wrote an interesting variant
of Dr Eisler's theory that Jesus was impersonated at the resur-
rection by a twin brother 1 In this instance, " Menehas " states
his belief that Jesus was impersonated by his disciple John, who
resembled him.
There are other points of agreement and disagreement between
these two chapters (16 and 17) of Paul in Athens and The Messiah
Jesus, but space does not permit me to deal with them here. Neither
is it possible to discuss the interesting anti-Christian views as expressed
in the interpretation of the " Slavonic " Josephus, which would
seem to coincide with those of " Menehas," nor the claim made by
the pro-Christian Paul that these were fabrications. However, in
conclusion. I would like to point out that an entirely different
description of Jesus to the one given by " Menehas " appears on
page 90 of The Scripts of Cleophas. This view is the pro-Christian
one. Also other allusions of the same character are made on pages
75, 128, 129, and 130 of Paul in Athens. It seems, therefore, that
Miss Cummins's mind is capable of reproducing two entirely
contrary views and is not obstructed by any personal inhibitions in
this respect. Yours, etc.,
E. B. GlBBES.
[It must be pointed out that the significance attributed by Miss
Gibbes to the interesting parallels she quotes are to a certain extent
based on a misapprehension. Dr Eisler does not claim to have
produced for the first time the supposed statement of Josephus
about the physical appearance of Jesus. Nor does this statement
stand alone. Dr Eisler himself gives a number of references to other
sources (The Messiah Jesus [1931]. pp. 393 ff.), and even in so
popular a book as Jacob de Voragine's The Golden Legend there
appears a modified form of it. Ed.]
THE MYSTERIOUS MADAME.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—Mr Salter, in an otherwise favourable review of my recent
biography of Madame Blavatsky, suggests that I am " guilty of a
few inaccuracies " in dealing with her relations with the S.P.R.
The alleged " few inaccuracies," however, appear to number only
two.
Mr Salter's first complaint is that I suppose F. W. H. Myers to
have been at one time a theosophist. Well, Madame Blavatsky in
October 1931 Correspondence 139
her published letters to Sinnett (no. 61) refers to Myers as a theo-
sophist ; and no less omniscient a personage than the Mahatma
K.H. confirms this in his letters to Sinnett (no. 83). Olcott refers
to Myers's resignation from the Theosophical Society in Old Diary
Leaves (3rd series, p. 235). These three (or two) individuals were in
a position to know ;
and, what is to the point in weighing their
evidence, they had less to gain than to lose by mentioning that
Myers had been a theosophist.
The second " inaccuracy " seems hardly worth inclusion in a
serious review. It is that, like many other writers, I called Myers
a Professor. I plead guilty to this heinous offence ;
Myers was
technically a " Lecturer " at Cambridge and not a " Professor."
Yours, etc.,
C. E. Bechhofer Egberts.
REVIEWS.
An Adventure. With a Preface by Edith Olivier and a Note by
J. W. Dunne. 8vo, pp. 104, 3 ill. and 4 folding maps. London :
Faber and Faber, Ltd., 1931. Fourth edition. Price 7s. 6d. net.
The original edition of this book, published in January 1911, was
reviewed at some length in the Society's Proceedings (xxv. 353-60).
The only matter which seems to call for further comment now is a
statement which appears in Miss Olivier's preface, pp. 23-4, as
follows :
" An Adventure was adversely reviewed in the Journal of
Proceedings [sic] of the Society for Psychical Research, for June 1911.
... It is, however, shown conclusively by the Bodleian papers that
the evidence had not actually been '
examined '
at all ; and that
the writer of the review had not seen any of these original and con-
temporary records of the research. . . . The papers in the Bodleian
decisively prove that these documents were offered to the S.P.R.,
and were not accepted by them. ..."
It is first to be noted that strictly contemporary written records of
the experience with which An Adventure is concerned do not seem
to have ever existed. It appears from the concluding paragraphs
of " Miss Moberly's account of the first visit to the Petit Trianon
"
(p. 46) that it was in November 1901 that she and Miss Jourdain
" resolved to write down independent accounts " of their expedition,
which had taken place in the previous August.
Now as to the part played by this Society. (1) The case was first
brought to our notice within a year or so of its occurrence and
certain " original documents " were offered for our consideration.
The opinion we then formed, from which we see no reason to depart,
was that the evidence for the hallucinatory character of the experi-
140 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1 931
ence was insufficient and that the case might be explained on the
hypothesis that the percipients had subsequently ascribed a psy-
chical significance to various actually existing persons and objects
seen by them at Versailles.
(2) Shortly after the first publication of An Adventure and before
the publication of our review, the authors submitted to the Society
a MS. book of notes written from time to time in the course of their
own investigations into the case. It was apparent from these notes
that the records printed at the beginning of the first edition and
reprinted in the present edition (pp. 39-51), were not the earliest
records, in which many of the incidents upon which the authors
laid special stress as evidence of the supernormal character of their
experience were described very briefly and with far less detail than
in the published version.
That the authors themselves attached importances to these
earliest records at the time they were made, and then considered
them the most trustworthy report of their experiences, seems to be
shown by the fact that, as described above, they sent them to the
S.P.R. Permission was asked to include these original records
(still, so far as we are aware, unprinted) in our review of the book ;
we offered to publish at the same time any statement concerning
these early documents the authors might care to send us. They
refused, however, to allow us to publish them and we were therefore
precluded from making any use of them in our review.
We put these facts on record here in order to show that the
critical attitude of our reviewer cannot fairly be ascribed^to a
refusal on the Society's part to consider such evidence as was
brought to its notice.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
No. 479 —Vol. XXVII. November 1931
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1,
ON
WEDNESDAY, 25 November 1931, at 5.30 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
Personalities of Controls and Communicators
bearing Ancient or Unknown Names "
WILL BE READ BY
Mr A. W. TRETHEWY.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
1
142 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1931
TOWARDS A THEORY OF DOWSING
I
INTRODUCTION
By Theodore Besterman
The problem of dowsing falls into three parts. The first is eviden-
tial : Is it really possible to find water, metals, etc., by dowsing ?
Everybody who has conducted experiments with a good dowser or
who has studied the evidence agrees that it is.
The second question is : What causes the movements of the rod ?
Here again there is general agreement. The movements of the rod
are produced by the dowser's unconscious muscular movements. It
follows that the rod is merely an index and that it is the dowser
himself who " perceives " 1
the object sought.
The third question arises from the answer to the second : How
does the dowser " perceive " the object sought ? This is the crucial
problem and there is no agreement on it. As there is not likely to
be much progress until this question is settled, in however pro-
visional a way, I have sought for an opportunity of discussing it in
some detail. The publication of an English translation of a book by
one of the leading exponents of the French school 2
and of a book
by two of the best-known German students of the subject,3
seemed
to present such an opportunity. I therefore invited the Vicomte de
France and our Corresponding Member, Graf Klinckowstroem, to
state their own and to criticise each other's views. They kindly
agreed, and their discussion follows. Their first articles were written
independently of each other. I have added to them these intro-
ductory remarks and a concluding summary and analysis.
Since this discussion was completed I have been glad to note the
publication of a number of the Revue Metajjsychique (Juillet-Aout
1931) largely devoted to dowsing. The contributors are all French
dowsers and investigators, and their articles display the usual and
confusing diversities of opinion, but contain much of interest and
value.
1
This word is used throughout in a completely non-committal sense, for
" becomes aware of " or the like.
2
Vicomte Henry de France, The Modern Dowser : a Guide to the Use of the
Divining Rod and Pendulum. Translated by A. H. Bell. 8vo, pp. xv. 135,
12 ill. London : G. Bell and Sons, Ltd., 1930.
3
Graf Carl von Klinckowstroem and Rudolf Freiherr von Maltzahn, Hand-
buchder Wunschelrute : Geschichte, WissenscJiaft, Anwendung. 8vo, pp. ix. 321,
104 diagrams, maps, and ill. Miinchen, Berlin : R. Oldenbourg, 1931.
November 1931 Towards a Theory of Dowsing 143
II
THE ART OF THE DOWSER 1
By Vicomte Henri de France
The art of the dowser goes back to the highest antiquity, but it is
only in quite recent years that the scientific study of it has begun
in France. In 1913 M. Henry Mager, colonial geographer, and M.
Armand Vire. director of the Laboratory for Subterranean Biology
at the Museum, took advantage of a psychical congress to bring
together a few dowsers. These were submitted to various tests,
searches for underground water currents, hollows, hidden metals,
etc. The dowsers passed these tests brilliantly. As a result the
phenomena of the dowsing-rod attracted the attention of a certain
number of instructed and intelligent persons.
They observed first of all that it was not indispensable for the
dowser to be endowed with a special " gift ". The art of the dowser
can be acquired like all the other arts, with the reservation that,
like the other arts, that of dowsing calls for some aptitude and for a
little patience and perseverance. At the same time, during the
years after the war, the chief dowsers published books in which they
explained their methods. We need mention only the works of
M. Mager, Frere Padey. the Abbe Merrnet, the Abbe Ferran, that of
M. Capron on the Abbe Bouly, M. Christophe, and finally my own.
Several of these books have been very successful and have gone into
a number of editions. It will be seen that an important part has
been played in recent development of the art of the dowser by our
country priests. There has, in fact, appeared amongst them a
number of dowsers of the highest merit. I have myself devoted a
series of articles to their work in Les Etudes. As the result of these
books and articles the number of French dowsers has been constantly
increasing and has become great enough to justify the founding of
a now flourishing society, the Association des Amis de la Radies-
thesie and of a Journal, the Chronique des Sourciers.
The pre-war dowser concerned himself only with the search for
water and sometimes for minerals. The dowsers of to-day have
considerably extended the field of their investigations. Radiesthesia
has become a science capable of innumerable applications. It is no
longer content to indicate currents of water, but now specifies its
mineralisation and radioactivity, it solves hitherto insoluble prob-
1
[The Vicomte de France's views are set out at greater length in his book
cited above, p. 142, n. 2
.]
i2
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1931
lems in geology, it helps archaeology by finding caves and founda-
tions, agriculture by determining the best grains and by verifying
whether they are suitable for the soil, and finally it invades the
field of medicine with confidence and success, localising diseased
organs, preserving from unnecessary operations, choosing remedies
and diets. And we have so far only mentioned physical radiesthesia !
Others go further and are in process of founding a sort of psychical
radiesthesia. They are no longer content to operate on the spot and
make use of plans and photographs. For them distance no longer
counts.
We are constantly learning new applications of our art and it is
seldom that the results do not surpass our hopes. At the same time
investigators are exercising their ingenuity in perfecting our instru-
ments and in replacing them by automatic apparatus. None of
these is as yet altogether satisfactory, but we may hope that before
many years have passed the problem will be solved.
The greatest progress made in France by the dowsing movement
is due on the one hand to the published works and the remarkable
results obtained by some of the best dowsers, and on the other hand
to the inventions connected with wireless, to which one is naturally
inclined to assimilate the art of the dowser. It has to be remem-
bered, in fact, that the dowsing novice can learn his art by practising
with the rod and the pendulum over electric currents, magnets and
electro-magnets, and wireless stations. With these last he can even
regulate the length of the thread of his pendulum according to the
wave-length of the transmission station with which he is in relation.
The dowsing-rod, and still more so the regulable pendulum, operates
exactly as if syntonisations were produced analogous to those ob-
tained with wireless apparatus. It is also known that very curious
results have been obtained on these lines with the Abrams apparatus,
to which Dr J. Regnault in France has devoted important works, as
well as to various other phenomena which throw light on dowsing.
There is thus a physical radiesthesia, related to the known
sciences and based on geology and biology, for which it supplies
reliable and practical diagnostic apparatus, which, however, requires
for its successful use an adequate knowledge of the sciences. But
apart from the ordinary dowsers, among whom everybody may
aspire to be numbered, there are others whose exploits, to which we
have already referred, are somewhat disconcerting : these it is who
trace springs and the like on a plan or a map, and who diagnose
illnesses from a photograph. In such cases explanations based on
wireless and on telluric currents or on conductive atmospheric
currents no longer seem to apply. We appear here to enter into an
unknown region. We know that there exist persons called clair-
voyants, who possess the singular faculty of seeing at a distance,
November 1031 Towards a Theory of Doivsing 145
of penetrating the past and even the future, of diagnosing illnesses,
of finding hidden objects, etc. All this has been studied and estab-
lished. Successful results are often recorded, but no explanation is
found. Ought we to have recourse to St Thomas's " Estimative
"
or faculty of perceiving in a sensible object that which is not appre-
hended by the senses ? It is unquestionable that this faculty exists
in animals. St Thomas considers that it must exist to a much
greater degree in man, since it is directly related to the intellectual
faculties. He describes it as belonging to inferior or particular
reason and declares that " it unites in itself individual and concrete
properties, as superior reason unites general properties ".
However this may be, it is possible to compare our intuitive
dowsers with clairvoyants. The former sometimes do not even use
their rods and pendulums for strictly divinatory purposes. I know
some who tell you in this way whether you are married, how many
children you have, etc. They proceed rather like the clairvoyant
who, instead of the pendulum, uses coffee grounds or a pack of cards.
Nevertheless, these dowsers who read plans and photographs on the
whole obtain satisfactory results to which other clairvoyants do not
appear to attain. We do not think that we have yet given a satis-
factory explanation of this phenomenon. But it should be observed
that the differences between the clairvoyant and the intuitive
dowser appear to be minute. On the other hand, it is difficult to
trace a clear line of demarcation between the ordinary and the
intuitive dowser. Some of the performances of the most " ordinary
"
dowsers make one incline to have recourse to the Estimative.
Natura non facit saltus. We have here yet another illustration of
this celebrated adage.
We have written of the movements obtained by electrical currents.
These transformations of oscillations into gyrations for a given
length of wire, serving to make certain nervous modifications per-
ceptible, appear to be no more than simple effects of induction. We
are on the borderline of automatism ; even machines imitate us
with more or less precision. Intelligence intervenes and directs our
movements. Attention and abstraction play their roles, which
become more and more preponderant. By imperceptible transitions
we pass from the known to the unknown. It is not known how to
bridge the gap dividing normal from supernormal phenomena. Per-
haps the " magic rod " will succeed in this task. In the meanwhile
those who use it, instead of philosophising, prefer to investigate and
to pursue useful and specialised ends.
The era of the " universal " dowser appears to be at an end.
Nowadays one learns to use the rod and the pendulum as one learns
to use the violin, the bistoury, or the brush. Some use our appara-
tus because they are well-sinkers or hydrological engineers, others
146 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1931
because they are mining engineers, others because they are doctors
or veterinarians, others because they are agriculturists or gardeners.
What I have put forward here is not a gratuitous assumption. The
formal testimony is none other than my list of subscribers to the
Chronique des Sourciers and my editorial correspondence.
The services rendered by the rod and the pendulum are constantly
increasing in number and in accuracy, and one can foretell without
any clairvoyance that before many years the use of the dowser will
have become a current practice. Let us hope that we shall then
remember those modest French country priests who will have con-
tributed to a large extent to the development of a movement so
fecund and so useful for France and humanity.
[Translated by Th. B ]
November 1931 Towards a Theory of Dowsing 147
III
DOWSING AS A PHYSICO-PHYSIOLOGICAL
PHENOMENON 1
By Graf Carl von Klinckowstroem
Sir William Barrett came to the conclusion that the phenomenon
of dowsing was to be regarded as purely psychical. Continental
investigators, on the contrary, consider that the dowser reacts to a
physical stimulus. The old miners spoke of mountain atmospherics,
metallic exhalations, etc. ; the Cartesians sought for the explanation
in the emanation of minute particles (the corpuscular theory) ;
Pierre Thouvenel developed in 1780 an electrical hypothesis, and
this mutatis mutandis is still advocated by many to-day. On the
discovery of the complex of radio-active phenomena these also were
naturally drawn upon, and to-day the judicious defender of a
physico-physiological interpretation speaks of radiation in general,
without committing himself as to its precise nature. During the
last decade geophysical investigations have developed a series of
discoveries which in various ways throw light on the formation of
the earth's crust. One of these achievements, the measurement of
the radio-activity of the surface of the earth, has, according to
Biehard Ambronn, a bearing on the phenomenon of dowsing. Am-
bronn was able to establish that there were sudden changes in the
degree of radio-activity at places where lodes come to light and at
many other exceptional geological spots. Thus, where faults
appeared there was always an increase in radio-activity, and a great
decrease over iron lodes. Now according to Ambronn the dowsing-
rod gives indications in precisely the same places as the registering
apparatus shows variations in the degree of radio-activity, so that
a connection appears to him to be established between geological
peculiarities (zones of disturbance), the indications of the dowsing-
rod, and the characteristic variations in radio-activity.
With this faculty of the dowser there is perhaps to be connected
what may be called weather-sensibility, the fact that certain people
are very sensitive to changes in the weather, storms, etc. Willy
Hellpach considers this weather-sensibility to be directly paralleled
by the sensibility of the dowser. There may in this connection be
taken into account, with E. Bandl, the possible connection between
1
[For a further exposition of Graf von Klinekowstroem's views see the book
cited above, p. 142, n. 3
, and his articles in the Journal, xv. 329-34 and xxii.
54-60.]
148 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1-931-
meteorological phenomena and the radio-active emanations of the
ground. It must be remembered that, for instance, a fall in atmo-
spheric pressure is followed, among other things, by an increase of
radio-active emanation and of ionised air from the pores of the
earth. This cannot be without some influence on cloud-formation.
This leads us to a further fact that has been discovered, namely,
that lightning is the best spring-finder. How is this to be explained ?
Lightning does not (pace Schiller) inevitably strike the highest objects-
trees and towers ; it chooses the path of least resistance, which is
admittedly often that presented by the highest points. For this
reason the lightning conductor, as is well known, must be taken
down into earth until underground water is reached. And it has
often been observed that lightning strikes the same objects again
and again. Professor 0. Hoppe had already remarked in 1906, in
connection with the observations of the dowser Landrat von Biilow-
Bothkamp, that " the electrical discharges of lightning only strike
water or metal conductors which lead deep into the earth," and he
pointed to the connection between atmospheric electricity and veins
of water or metal. As lodes and " water-veins " are frequently
connected with clefts, fissures, and faults in the earth, the choice of
such places by lightning may be explained by the increased ionisa-
tion of the earth's atmosphere, due to its increased conductivity,
over these places. It is also a well-known fact that storks only nest
on roofs that are never struck by lightning, under which, that is,
there are no water-bearing strata. The stork instinctively avoids
the places which in some way make him feel uncomfortable owing
to the change of the electro-magnetic field, owing to " radiations ",
or whatever else the reason may be. Similarly it is known that trees
do badly over underground water.
This leads us to a further observation : many dowsers (for
instance, von Billow, von Uslar, von Graeve, von Maltzahn) have
declared that they cannot sleep, or that they suffer some injury to
their general wellbeing. when they are over " water-veins ". Lately
it has even been maintained in various quarters that to live for a
long time over strong underground streams of water leads to serious
injury to health. A Dresden dowser, Frau Hedwig Winzer, together
with Dr R. Bach, has conducted a series of careful investigations
into this question. According to Bach it appeared that Frau Winzer
was able to locate underground streams wherever (unknown to her)
such illnesses as cancer, gout, chronic rheumatism, neuralgia, heart
diseases, etc., had occurred to a marked degree. Bach also cites
other writers (Kolb, Prinzing, Werner) who, from quite different
points of view, in the investigation of the distribution of cancer and
the localisation of its occurrence in various districts have come to
the conclusion that local influences play a role in the etiology of
November 1931 Towards a Theory of Dowsing
cancer. Prinzing. however, had principally in mind the assumption,
to-day no longer acceptable, that cancer is due to an infectious
contagion. Werner describes it as remarkable that in some diluvial
and miocene areas the number of localities in which cancer is common
is particularly high, whereas in gneiss areas such localities are in
general few. These questions are not yet ripe for discussion, par-
ticularly as the primary causes, in connection with which numerous
possibilities can admittedly be put forward, are wholly obscure. At
the same time, these facts also tend to support the idea of a physical
cause. It is to-day generally assumed that cancer is produced by
continuous stimuli of various kinds, and prolonged living over under-
ground streams would be one such stimulus. Attempts are being
made in medical quarters to clear up this complex of problems.
Another phenomenon also appears to be relevant here : the
observation first made by Freiherr von Bassus in 1905 that in calm
weather the whole system of streams and rivers on the surface of the
earth is exactly reproduced by gaps in otherwise uniform clouds.
Bassus was able to observe and to photograph this remarkable
phenomenon from a balloon over a cloud 390 feet thick and 2250 feet
high. For this phenomenon also a satisfactory explanation is still
lacking. We have here a projection of the streams of water on to
the clouds, exactly as the dowser indicates the perpendicular pro-
jection of underground running water or lodes.
If we analyse the phenomenon of dowsing into its basic elements
we see that we are concerned with a comparatively simple process.
The chief component is the primary cause of the dowser's reaction,
which we seek in a physical stimulus of the nervous system of the
dowser. In this connection there has to be studied the reaction
itself, a good deal of light on which has been thrown, in particular,
by Dr H. Haenel. In connection with the physiological mechanism
of the movements of the rod we are concerned with a system in
labile tension, represented by the hands and arms separated by the
dowsing-rod, which can be easily brought out of equilibrium by any
variations in the contractile state of the hand and arm musculature.
According to Haenel this occurs by means of the relaxing of certain
muscles within a system of other muscles which retain their tension
and innervation. The impulse producing this relaxation can be
quite minute.
Owing to the mysterious appearance of the phenomenon itself
this simple fact has been frequently obscured and complicated by
fantastic theoretical systems and uses, which have produced much
mischief. To these erroneous systems belong for instance the num-
erical dowsing experiments of the late Professor Moritz Benedikt,
who thought he was able to draw exact conclusions as to the nature
and composition of the substances searched for from the degree of
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1931
the circular movements of the dowsing-rod. In this we can only
see a serious self-deception, which can be very quickly shown to be
such by means of exact tests. The complicated and in itself logically
constructed system of Benedikt undoubtedly arose in a similar
manner to the Mars language of the medium Helene Smith, which
Flournoy was able to trace to the unconscious capacities of the
medium. Of the further mischief which has been worked in Germany
with the dowsing-rod and pendulum—the diagnosis of illnesses, the
investigation of eggs, the testing of the genuineness of pictures,
etc.. I would rather say nothing.
What has been said about Benedikt applies also to the hypotheses
and experiments which have recently been produced in France.
Here M. Henri Mager, also on the basis of laboratory experiments,
has developed a very minutely specialised system and thinks that
he has discovered laws governing the polar attraction and repulsion
of the rod over positive and negative poles. This fundamentally
erroneous attitude to the problem has unfortunately obtained fol-
lowers in France. Among these is the Vicomte Henri de France,
for instance, who in his recent booklet, also on the basis of armchair
investigations, which he calls fundamental investigations, and from
which he draws far-going theoretical and practical conclusions.
These appear to me to be just as mistaken as the experiments of
Benedikt and Mager. At bottom the Vicomte de France agrees with
the dowsers that physical influences, " earth-currents or waves ",
are the primary causes of the reaction of the dowsing-rod. We will
return to the question whether this agrees with the experiments
described by him. He thinks further that a special disposition is
not necessary for the dowser, but that anyone can acquire the art of
dowsing. In this respect also our own investigations have led us to
a different conclusion. Indeed, we regard it as a possible danger
that the investigation of dowsing may be discredited by the work
of unqualified and dilettante dowsers, if anyone imagines that he
will be able to produce results after brief instruction. The use of the
sidereal pendulum, which lends itself even more easily than the
dowsing-rod to serious self-deceptions, appears to us to be in itself
dangerous. The Abbe Bouly, who uses a pendulum, and who
appears to be highly thought of in France, diagnoses illnesses. The
Abbe Mermet is able by the same method to indicate the yield of
springs to the decimal point of a minute-litre, according to the Vi-
comte de France. We have no doubt that these claims would
quickly vanish under scientific examination. No dowser can produce
such results. According to our investigations even the possibility
of an accurate indication of depth is a very debatable point. We
doubt equally the accuracy of the " sensational " pendulum experi-
ments with eggs of Professor Bosset of Lausanne, as well as the
November 1931 Towards a Theory of Dowsing 151
alleged ability of the late dowser Probst to make chemical analyses
in the same way.
The Vicomte de France describes as a fundamental experiment
one with a pendulum over an electrical pocket lamp, in which he
atrributes the movements of the pendulum to systematic reactions
to zones of influence, etc. What he publishes are detailed theoretical
discussions and observations, but no proofs. However much we
acknowledge that the Vicomte de France requires dowsers to have
considerable geological knowledge, we cannot see in these complicated
investigations any way which leads to the solution of the problem
of dowsing. Precisely as with the theory of Mager, we cannot see
in the methods described by M. de France anything more than an
erroneous system which can only lead to confusion. In our opinion
we are concerned here only with a mental phenomenon : the pen-
dulum plays the role of an ascension pipe from the subconsciousness
(to use a phrase of R. Tischner's), as in the case of automatic writing,
the planchette, or scrying. Only the views and expectations of the
users of the pendulum are exteriorised. In brief, the complicated
" physical " hypotheses and investigations of the French dowsers
are simply the chimeras of laymen.
[Translated by Th. B.]
152 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1931
IV
REPLY TO GRAF VON KLINCKO WSTROEM
By Vicomte Henri de France
Graf Carl von KHnckowstroem is too well known for his learned
studies on the dowsing-rod and for the high authority he has acquired
for me not to be disturbed by his criticisms and for me not to take
them into serious consideration. I hope for the rest that we shall
be able to reach an agreement fairly easily, as we start from the
same basis and the same principles. Like him I think that the
movements of the dowsers are caused by the action on our nervous
system of terrestrial radio-activity and atmospheric electricity.
Like him also, I fear " unqualified and dilettante dowsers ". It is
for this reason that I insist so much on the necessity that dowsers
should be perfectly acquainted with geology. I consider that the
rod and the pendulum are the diagnostic instruments of that science.
Consequently, in order to use them with success, one must begin by
being a geologist, just as one has to be an astronomer in order
usefully to employ a telescope.
I thought for a long time, like Graf von Klinckowstroem, that
the art of dowsing could only be exercised by a very few exception-
ally gifted persons. This would have been very regrettable, for the
majority of those who need it, geologists, mining engineers, water
engineers, etc., would have been unable to use it. Happily the
recent discovery of the regulable pendulum, perfected by the Abbe
Ferran, has convinced me that almost anyone can become a dowser,
precisely because this pendulum is regulable, whereas the rod is not.
The experiments which I recommend with electric currents,
accumulators, wireless sets, magnets, etc., are, above all, exercises
for practice, which the dowser must perform every day in order to
keep in form ; in certain aspects the art of the dowser bears some
resemblance to a sport, and daily practice is far from being useless.
These experiments do not appear to me to be at all contradictory
of the fundamental ideas of Graf von Klinckowstroem. It does not
appear to me that there is any conflict between dowsing by means
of telluric or atmospheric electricity and that which is done at home
and at will. In a way these exercises recall a little those done by
hunters and fishermen with their rifles and rods for the purpose of
getting into form.
The only valid criticism that could be made against these exercises
would be to demonstrate experimentally that they are impossible.
November 1931 Towards a Theory of Dowsing 153
but I have good reasons for thinking that this could not be done.
A number of dowsers actually perform these exercises. If they
succeed in judging with their pendulums whether their accumulators
are more or less charged, which can be easily verified ;
if, in varying
the length of their pendulum, they see on their wireless apparatus
that they are in harmony with stations of short, medium or long
wave lengths, lengths proportionate to that of the thread of the
pendulum ; then I think that these dowsers will regard the pheno-
mena of their art as more akin to the theories of induction and of
oscillating circuits than to those of the subconscious.
Taking these considerations into account, I cannot see what
objections Graf von Klinckowstroem could make against these exer-
cises, which, in addition to their intrinsic merits, have the advantage
of emphasising in the eyes of beginners the laws of modern physics,
on which he. like myself, bases the movements of the rod and of the
pendulum.
To deny a priori, as does Graf von Klinckowstroem. the medical
diagnoses of the Abbes Bouly and Mermet appears to me to be
acting a little hastily. Many facts which appear one day to contra-
dict accepted theories' have to be recognised as true the following
day. Personally, not being a doctor, I have not concerned myself
with the medical part of dowsing, but this part exists and is even
developing rapidly. During the year following the foundation of the
Association des Amis de la Radiesthesie the number of doctors who
have joined it has increased to such an extent that there is a move-
ment on foot to organise a medical commission. I know a veterinary
doctor who is at this moment preparing a medical thesis on the
extraordinary results he has obtained with the pendulum. I men-
tion finally the work and the review of Dr J. Regnault, of Toulon,
which Graf von Klinckowstroem certainly knows.
The truth is that the Abbe Bouly and the Abbe Mermet are
dowsers of the first order, the former with the rod, the second with
the pendulum. While others were feeling their way and hesitating
they have been frankly in the vanguard, and this is the cause of the
great fame they enjoy as much in France as abroad. Courage is a
necessary quality in its cause, and it is very fortunate that we
possess men of this kind. Without them it is more than probable
that the art of the dowser would have continued in its century-old
ruts.
There are at the present time in Europe many excellent dowsers.
I may mention, without attempting to be exhaustive : in France,
M. Mager, the Abbes Bouly and Ferran, Frere Padey, MM. Vire,
Bidreman, Larvaron, Treyve, Mathieu, Turenne, Dr J. Regnault,
Colonel de Marsay, Colonel Moreau, etc. ; in Switzerland; the Abbe
Mermet, Professor Boseet ; in Germany and Austria, Herren von
154 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 193L
Graeve, von Maltzahn, Dr Bayer, Dr Braun-Fernwald, Dr Claus ;
in England, Mr Christie ; in Spain, Professor Darder Pericas, etc.
These gentlemen make no mystery, in general, of the means they
employ. They often make known the extraordinary results they
occasionally obtain, and sometimes in the most unexpected regions.
I think that under these circumstances it is imprudent to assign
barriers to the possibilities of dowsing. I think it is better to see
which of the experiments can be easily reproduced by the average
dowser. We shall then be able to see what is capable of being
widely utilised. This attitude appears to be better than that which
consists of an a priori denial, better even than the experiments of the
inventors themselves, for we do not know, in the latter case, whether
their experiments are capable of being reproduced, which is the
important point in such a matter.
The easily reproduced experiment becomes a definite achievement
and public property. It is well to seek for the scientific theory which
explains the fact, but we must remember that it is more than
probable that the theories we build to-day will be replaced by
others in a few years, themselves also destined to be modified.
[Translated by Th. B.]
November 1931 Towards a Theory of Dowsing 155
V
REPLY TO THE VICOMTE BE FRANCE
By Graf Carl von Klinckowstroem
I regard as a fundamental error the assumption that anybody can
develop himself into a dowser by practice. According to our
experience the mere movements of the rod in an individual's hands
are not in themselves any indication that he is a useful dowser,
since these movements can be produced by ideomotor causes or
suggestion. And there are certainly many such dowsers who are
not in fact " true " dowsers. Their " successes " prove nothing. We
even know some cases where excellent dowsers have lost their
faculty, as, for example, the Munich dowser Kurringer, who at one
time rendered valuable services to the Munich water board in con-
nection with pipe-bursts, etc. To us the dowser is only an instru-
ment. The scientific solution of the problem and the experimental
investigations of dowsers is a scientific matter. The experiments
and theories of laymen cannot advance the problem, but will rather
confuse and discredit it. I cannot accept the instructions given in
France for the education of dowsers. In my opinion they lead to
serious self-deception and to the erection of theoretical systems
which are also in the nature of self-deceptions, as in the cases of
Benedikt and Mager. I consider the various capacities that are
attributed in France to the dowsing-rod and pendulum to be mis-
taken, and I am convinced that they would very promptly be shown
as such on exact investigation by experts. I have as yet heard
nothing of such investigations. The use of " samples " is also based,
in my opinion, on erroneous theoretical assumptions. On similar
principles operated Schermuly's " polarisator ", a pendulum-like
apparatus with a capsule containing a specimen of the object for
which search was being made. The worthlessness of this apparatus
was demonstrated years ago by means of a series of careful experi-
ments in the Psychological Institute of the University of Frankfurt.
In 1913 Gustave Lebon briefly investigated the dowser Probst,
whose ability to distinguish objects was alleged to approach a
chemical analysis in accuracy. Unfortunately these experiments
were not continued (cp. Nature, 1913, no. 2085).
Why is so little notice taken of dowsing to-day by official science
and by the competent experts and local authorities in France ?
This lack of interest appears to me to be due to the fantastic claims
and hypotheses of the dowsers. There are dowsers in Germany also
156 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1931
who make a great fuss about their alleged capabilities, but for the
most part there remains very little of these claims after expert
analysis or investigation. On the other hand, scientifically educated
dowsers, free from fantastic theorising, allow their abilities to be
expertly investigated in the strict possible way. Among these may
be mentioned the investigation of Dr K. Osswald by the Stuttgart
Geologist Dr Kranz, and of Freiherr von Maltzahn by the Freiberg
Institute of Mines and Board of Mines. The records of these exact
investigations from a sure demonstration of the usefulness of the
dowsing-rod in the hands of competent dowsers who are conscious
of their responsibilities, so that science can no longer dismiss dowsing
as an ancient superstition. Only such a procedure can. in my
opinion, be serviceable to the subject, only so can the interest and
confidence of science be won. The rod and the pendulum as instru-
ments of divination we have, admittedly, entirely excluded from
our observations. Dowsing of eggs, photographs, etc., we consider
a misuse which confuses the subject and which can only lead to the
discrediting of the phenomenon. The solution of this problem is to
be found by simplification and not by complication.
[Translated by Th. B.]
November 1931 Towards a Theory of Doivsing 157
VI
THE PSYCHICAL AND PHYSICAL THEORIES OF
DOWSING
By Theodore Besterman
It will be seen that there are two explanations of dowsing (I am
writing here only of the dowser's " perception ", that is, the third
problem stated in section I above). Sir William Barrett maintained
that dowsing is a purely psychical process, and to this view I sub-
scribed, after an independent examination of the evidence, when
compiling The Divining-Rod after his death. On the other hand the
continental investigators maintain that dowsing is a purely physical
process. Graf von Klinckowstroem gives this view his unqualified
support ; the Vicomte de France leaves a loophole for the psychical
theory as an explanation of certain phenomena only, but as these
phenomena (dowsing from maps, medical diagnosis, etc.) appear to
be unsupported by evidence, M. de France may also be reckoned,
as he says himself, an adherent of the physical theory.
This radical difference of opinion is aggravated by a partial
absence of the relevant data. For while in The Divining-Rod and in
Sir William Barrett's preceding reports some attempt was made to
refute the physical theories and to substantiate the psychical, the
supporters of the physical view have not produced any arguments
in favour of their own theories and against ours. 1
Another difficulty
is created by the vast differences between the various adherents of
the physical theories : to these the foregoing pages must bear
sufficient testimony.
Before the arguments for and against any physical theory can be
stated, it is necessary to understand more clearly what such a theory
involves. As different writers, and even the same writers at different
times, advocate varying physical theories to a considerable number,
it is impossible to enter into all of them. Let us take two typical
ones. I find no details of any of the theories in the Handbuch or
The Modern Dowser, and I have therefore tried myself to put the
matter into concrete terms.
1
My friend Graf Klinckowstroem will forgive me for pointing out that
although he (Schriften des Verbands zur Klarung der Wiinschelrutenfrage, x.
39-40) severely criticised The Divining-Rod for what he considered the in-
adequate attention given in it to the physical theories (his complaint about
the reference to himself was perfectly justified), in the Handbuch neither he
nor his collaborator makes the slightest attempt to deal with the psychical
theory, which is simply rejected de piano (pp. iii, 46, 71, 72).
158 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1931
First, the electrical theory. Electrical currents are set up in the
earth by natural electro-chemical activity, as by the oxidation of
sulphide ore by water. The importance of this fact for geophysical
prospecting lies in the varying conductive properties of rocks,
minerals, water, etc. If the currents are measured at different
places in a given area, the varying degrees of conductivity are
ascertained, and the nature of the subsoil is thus determined. This
process, however, is very difficult owing to the inhomogeneity of
most areas : the presence of cleaved rocks or of mixed masses of
highly conductive and less conductive substances, to give only two
examples, infinitely complicates the work. 1
Second, the magnetic theory. The earth's magnetic field presents
certain anomalies. Some of these are due to the differences in the
magnetic susceptibilities of various substances. Thus, limestone or
chalk may be up to ten times as permeable as coal2
. The measure-
ment of the anomalies in the earth's field thus enables the nature
of the subsoil to be determined.
Both these processes involve the use of complicated and some-
times of massive apparatus.3
The physical theory of dowsing
assumes that this apparatus is replaced by the dowser, who makes
the necessary observations direct.
The arguments for the physical theory may now be stated thus :
(1) There is some conceivable affinity between it and so-called
weather sensibility. If it is true, as seems likely, that some people
become aware of changes in the weather, they may do so by being
sensitive to electrical disturbances in the atmosphere. On the other
hand, there is no evidence that they are and the facts are capable
of explanation on different lines, as by sensitiveness to atmospheric
moisture. There is also no evidence, so far as I am aware, that
weather sensibility is more common among dowsers than among
other persons.
(2) It is less liable to the reproach that the unknown is being
explained by the unknown.
(3) The belief almost universally held by dowsers that a physical
process is involved. This argument, however, is practically value-
less ; first, because of the fact that the physical processes so advo-
cated vary immensely from dowser to dowser and from generation
to generation, following the latest fashionable view ;
secondly,
1
Chiefly based on C. Schlumberger, Etude sur la prospection electrique du
sous-sol (1920).
2
American Institution of Mechanical Engineers, Geophysical Prospecting
(1929), pp. 239 ff.
3
See the valuable Report of the Imperial Geophysical Experimental Survey
entitled The Principles and Practice of Geophysical Prospecting (Cambridge
1931).
November 1931 Towards a Theory of Dowsing 159
because the dowser is usually (by no means always) unqualified to
express an opinion.
I need mention only one argument against any physical theory :
the complete absence of evidence for the existence in the human
body of any organ capable of detecting, discriminating between, and
measuring various electrical, magnetic, and/or radio-active currents,
emanations or properties, and then of communicating the result to
the neuro-muscular system, and the inherent improbability that
the human organism should be capable of doing work outside itself
of so complex and delicate a kind.
The psychical theory is that the dowser " perceives " the object
dowsed for by some supernormal 1
means, conveniently but perhaps
misleadingly described as clairvoyance or cryptesthesia.
The arguments for the psychical theory may be stated thus :
(1) It is the simplest theory, in that it offers a clear and uniform
explanation of all the phenomena.
(2) There is good evidence for the possession by many dowsers of
some supernormal faculty apart from their dowsing. Thus, Jacques
Aymar was apparently able to trace criminals [The Divining-Rod,
pp. 27-31). Sir Herbert Maxwell gives a careful account of a similar
feat by an amateur dowser, Mr R. Howson (ibid., pp. 255-6). The
same gentleman is said to have been able to identify pieces of
crockery by dowsing (ibid., p. 256). There is a certain amount of
evidence on record for the finding of lost and hidden objects by
dowsing (ibid., pp. 256-60). Miss Miles was able not only to find
lost and hidden objects, but spoke of " seeing " them (ibid., p. 261 ;
cp. pp. 160-6). Miss Miles also, as is well known, took part in
successful experiments in thought-transference (Proceedings, xxi.
60 ff ., xxvii. 279 ff ). The amateur dowser Mr F. J. Young conducted
a few experiments in clairvoyance by automatic writing, in which
he was decidedly successful (The Divining-Rod, pp. 264-6).
(3) The descriptions given by some dowsers of their procedure
and sensations strongly suggest a psychical process. Thus, like Miss
Miles, the boy dowser Guy Fenley was spoken of as " seeing " the
water (ibid., p. 261). Another young dowser was similarly reported
by Professor R. F. A. Hoernle (ibid., p. 261). Among older examples
may be mentioned the case reported by Dr Ashburner, the remarkable
cases of Katharina Beutler and Anna Maria Briegger, and those of
Pedegacha and Jean Jacques Parangue (see references in ibid., p. 263),
and, most notable of all, the Spanish Zahoris (ibid., pp. 277-82).
1
It is worth noting that some adherents of a physical theory dismiss the
psychical view on the ground that it is " supernormal ", but the view that a
dowser can become directly aware of terrestrial magnetism, for instance, is
just as supernormal.
160 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1931
The only specific argument against the psychical theory that I
can suggest is inherent in its supernormal nature : we ought not
to explain the unknown by the unknown if we can help it.
It appears to me that, so far as we have gone, the evidence and the
probabilities are emphatically on the side of the psychical theory,
and that the adherents of any physical theory have yet to produce
evidence justifying the further investigation of their views.
No. 480.—Vol. XXVIJ. December 1931
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1,
ON
WEDNESDAY, 30 December 1931, at 5.30 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
"A HISTORY OF GEORGE VALIANTINE "
WILL BE READ BY
Mrs W. H. SALTER
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
K
162 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1931
NEW MEMBERS.
{Elected 30 September 1930.)
Bowles, Mrs, The Old Mill House, Ewelme, Oxon.
Fletcher, A. B. W., Heatherdene, Jennings Road, St Albans, Herts.
Grant, Malcolm R.
James, Mrs Bayard, 405 East 54th Street, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Mackenzie, Mrs J. 0., 15 Lyndhurst Gardens, London, N.W. 3.
Macnamara, Rev. A., St Edward's School, Oxford.
Morris, Miss Helen L., 6 Fore Hill, Ely, Cambs.
Mure, The Lady Georgiana, 19 Cliveden Place, London, S.W. 1.
Singh, Gurdit, Kandhari Kothi, Agra, U.P., India.
Sowrey, Wing-Commander John, R.A.F., R.A.F. Station, Uxbridge,
Middx.
Waters, R. C, 11 Westbourne Terrace, London, W. 2.
(Elected 28 October 1931.)
Bossom, Mrs Alfred C, 5 Carlton Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
Librarian, University of Illinois Library, Urbana, 111., U.S.A.
(Elected 25 November 1931.)
Dotimala, Dr Nariman A., Mombasa, B.E. Africa.
Reutiner, Miss Alice H., 38 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 286th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 30 September 1931, at 3.45 p.m.,
Sir Oliver Lodge in the chair. There were also present : Mr W. R.
Bousfield, K.C., Lord Charles Hope, Mr J. G. Piddington, Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Professor F. C. S. Schiller, Mr S. G. Soal,
and Dr V. J. Woolley ; also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and
Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Eleven new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
Knowing that for some time Mr Salter had wished to be relieved
from the duties of Hon. Treasurer, the Council accepted his resigna-
tion with regret ; and on his proposal, which was seconded by Mr J.
G. Piddington, they appointed Mr L. S. Fletcher his successor.
Permission was given to the Editor to relax the rule of privacy in
the case of the Journal for November 1931.
December 1931 Meetings of the Council 163
The 287th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 28 October 1931, at 4 p.m., Profes-
sor F. C. S. Schiller in the Chair. There were also present : Mr
W. R. Bousfield, K.C.. Professor C. D. Broad, Professor E. R. Dodds,
Mr L. S. Fletcher, Lord Charles Hope, Miss Ina Jephson, Sir Law-
rence J. Jones, Bart., Mr W. H. Salter, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh, and Dr
V. J. Woolley ; also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and Editor,
and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The 288th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 25 November 1931, at 3.15 p.m.,
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There
were also present : Mr W. R. Bousfield, K.C., Lord Charles Hope,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr J. G. Piddington, Mr W. H. Salter,
Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal, and Dr V. J. Woolley ; also Mr
Theodore Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
PRIVATE MEETINGS.
Proxy Sittings.
The 107th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library
of the. Society, 31 Tavistock Square, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 30
September 1931, at 5.30 p.m., Dr V. J. Woolley in the Chair.
The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas read a paper entitled " A Con-
sideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings, with special reference to the
Sources of Veridical Information and to the Method of its Recep-
tion," of which the following is a summary :
The sittings he referred to were those he had taken on behalf of
bereaved persons who had written to him for help. Such persons
were in most cases quite unknown to him and in all cases to the
medium, Mrs Leonard. In the records so obtained he found both
failures and successes. Some of them he had sent to Mrs Salter,
Mr Saltmarsh, and Mr Besterman, who agreed that they presented
good evidence of a supernormal nature. Whence came the veridical
information ? The adoption of the telepathic hypothesis involved
very great difficulties, for there was in most cases a complete absence
164 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1931
of link between the medium and the Communicator. Indeed, in one
case in which the conditions were more favourable to the operation
of telepathy than they were in most of these proxy sittings, the
result was a failure.
The same reasoning applied to clairvoyance, for in twelve cases
where the conditions favoured clairvoyance he obtained two suc-
cesses, three doubtful cases, and seven failures. Passing briefly
over other still less likely theories he came to the conclusion that
the veridical information did in fact come from the purporting
Communicator. When the results were examined from this point
of view it was interesting to observe the wide differences in the degree
and kind of success obtained by the different Communicators. It
appeared that young, well-educated Communicators were the most
successful in transmitting evidential information through the
medium. These conclusions were tentative and he would continue
his investigations on those lines.
The Chairman questioned whether we really knew so much as
Mr Thomas had implied of the conditions favourable to telepathy.
Mr J. W. Findlater described his co-operation with Miss Nea
Walker in a proxy sitting which failed. He felt that insufficient
attention was given to the possibility of chance-coincidences in
these cases, and gave illustrations from his own experience.
The Kev. J. W. Hayes asked what was known about the identity
of Mrs Leonard's Control Feda.
Mr A. W. Trethewy emphasised the difficulty of applying the
telepathic hypothesis to the results obtained in proxy sittings, since
they did not know what conditions were favourable.
Mr Besterman said that Mr Thomas's analysis of the different
types of Communicators with reference to the degree of success
obtained by them was a valuable contribution to the theory of
spirit communications. He suggested that the analysis might be
extended to the applicants.
The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, in reply, said that he accepted
the identity of Feda as what Feda claimed it to be. He agreed that
the nature of telepathy and its conditions were still unknown, but
considered that after making all possible allowances, telepathy
would not cover the facts.
Proof of Survival.
The 108th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library
of the Society, 31 Tavistock Square, W.C. 1, on Wednesday 28
October, at 5.30 p.m., Professor F. 0. S. Schiller in the Chair.
Mr H. F. Saltmarsh read a paper entitled " Is Proof of Survival
Possible ? ", which will be published in Part 122 of Proceedings.
Decembek 1931 Proof of Survival 165
The Chairman said that lie was not sure whether different parts
of Mr Saltmarsh's paper were quite consistent with each other. He
began very correctly and soundly by pointing out that there was
a good deal of dispute about the nature of proof and whether there
was actually such a thing as what used to be called conclusive proof.
He wanted to underline that statement of Mr Saltmarsh's because
he believed it could be shown that the critics of conclusive proof
were certainly right, in all probability, that was. Proof existed as
what used to be called logical certainty and also existed as psycholo-
gical certainty. He did not himself see why in psychical research
they should expect to get any greater kind of truth. He would ask
Mr Saltmarsh whether he believed or denied that there was such a
thing as proof by accumulation of evidence, indefinitely prolonged
but sooner or later capable of becoming, psychologically at any rate,
convincing. If he did not deny that it seemed to him that it was
possible for pieces of evidence which were quite inconclusive in them-
selves to support each other and to strengthen the case in favour
of an hypothesis. These cases taken separately had certain weak-
nesses, but taken together they supported each other because the
combination of them would not have those weaknesses. He thought
that was a possibility. Risks had to be taken in psychical research
just as they had to be taken in other sciences. There was no such
thing as absolute certainty.
Mr G. R. S. Mead pointed out that the theory of the spiritual or
etheric body had a great deal to be said for it and that its rejection
would involve any theory of survival in considerable difficulties.
Mr Besterman said that the case Mr Saltmarsh had put forward
was even stronger in practice than in theory, since most of Mr Salt-
marsh's ideal cases did not in fact exist.
Dr V. J. Woolley suggested that that would be equally true of any
science.
The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas referred to the distinction between
objective and subjective proof, and pointed out that whether or not
the former was attainable, the latter clearly was.
Other members took part in the discussion, and Mr Saltmarsh
briefly replied.
THE LOURDES CURE.
We print below extracts translated from some correspondence
concerning cures at Lourdes which has passed between Count
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo and Dr Monnier, whose book Etude
medicate de quelques guerisons survenues a Lourdes, he reviewed in
Proceedings, xxxix. 369-75.
166 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1931
Dr Monnier to Count Perovsky, 13 February 1931
:
" If I understand your conclusions rightly, you are of opinion
that an enquiry concerning Lourdes scientifically conducted might
be fruitful, but you have doubts as to the possibility of such an
enquiry.
" Let me point out to you the existence at Lourdes of a '
Bureau
de constatations medicales '
open to all physicians of whatever
nationality and whatever be their faith or agnosticism ; a member
of a scientific society wishing to conduct an enquiry would, I think,
be admitted to it (Dr Vallet is its director)."
Count Perovsky to Dr Monnier, 17 February 1931
:
" I know that there does exist at Lourdes a '
Bureau de constata-
tions medicales '
and that Dr Vallet is its director. You think that
a member of a scientific society would be admitted to it.
" In my opinion that is not enough. I had in view an independent
commission acting in a parallel way, but outside the '
Bureau,' a
commission in which Catholics might most certainly take part, but
which would have chiefly and first of all a scientific and non-con-
fessional character.
" I am far from rejecting the Lourdes cures just as I am far from
rejecting stigmata, but I note—and this is proved by the instance
of Konnersreuth—that most unfortunately many Catholics do not
realise what an impartial and objective investigation, worthy of the
name, must be in this sphere nowadays. I acknowledge that they
have the most absolute right to address themselves to their co-
religionists only, not leaving the sphere of faith ; but at Lourdes as
well as at Konnersreuth they often appeal to the scientific and
critical spirit, nay, to sceptics. Well, if that be so, so far as Theresa
Neumann is concerned, very little has hitherto been done to give
satisfaction to those who are competent to conduct such kinds of
researches outside of all confessional considerations ; nor am I sure
that the Lourdes standard is always of such a nature as to content
this last category of researchers."
Dr Monnier to Count Perovsky, 9 March 1931
:
" It seems to me that a commission of enquiry such as you suggest
would do fruitful work at Lourdes. Would it be the first to come
and work there ? I do not think so. Quite recently Mgr Gerlier,
Bishop of Lourdes, referred before me to the presence at Lourdes of
a group of Protestant physicians who had come with this very object
of making an enquiry.
" As to the method to be pursued, the commission might find
inspiration in that adopted by Dr Goret, whose name is connected
December 1931 The Lourdes Cure 167
with the third observation referred to in my thesis, that upon
Emilie Cailleux. He obtained in Paris the list of the sick persons
leaving for Lourdes and examined them, then betook himself to
Lourdes to observe what happened to these malades. He thus found
standing and walking E. Cailleux, who had been treated for Pott's
disease, complicated by paraplegia, which made it impossible for
her to walk, under Prof. Lecene in the St Louis hospital. . . .
!:
The Presse medicah—the most widely read French medical
periodical—published on 24 May last a paper on Theresa Neumann.
. . . From the documents quoted by the author it follows that
Theresa Neumann was observed at leisure by one non-Cathobc at
least, Doctor Fritz Gerlich."
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE MYSTERIOUS MADAME.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir, —Before I wrote my review of Mr Roberts's book. I made
inquiries from persons who had been closely associated with F. W. H.
Myers during Madame Blavatsky's lifetime, and was informed that
though he, together with some other members of the S.P.R., was at
first favourably disposed towards Madame Blavatsky, he had not
at any time been a member of the Theosophical Society. I therefore
asked Mr Roberts for his authority for the statement that he was at
any time a Theosophist, and he refers me to Madame Blavatsky and
Colonel Olcott. neither of whose testimony can. I think, be con-
sidered of much weight. Further inquiries fully confirm the infor-
mation I had earlier received.
Mr Roberts considers the description of Myers as a Professor too
trivial an inaccuracy to deserve attention. I do not believe that
Mr Myers himself would have so regarded it.
Yours, etc.,
W. H. Salter.
THE MEDIUM FRAU SILBERT.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—Concerning the account of the sitting which Studienrat
Rudolf Lambert had with Frau Maria Silbert in Graz, on the 28th
March 1929, and which he published in the July number of this
Journal, we beg to be permitted to bring out the following short
counter-declaration.
168 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1931
Studienrat Rudolf Lambert's report is rather at variance with
our observations, which are accordant with those of the other four
sitters. In spite of Herrn Lambert's subjective conviction of the
ungenuineness of what he saw, we cannot grant him the right to
speak publicly of fraudulent phenomena on account of so few
sittings (three, perhaps more correctly two and a half). That is a
point of view which already such researchers as Sir Oliver Lodge
and Prof. Dr Richet supported and to which, moreover, Herr
Lambert himself consented expressis verbis in his letters directed
to us.
Which of the two subjective opinions is also objectively true will
have to be decided by—psychic science.
Yours, etc.,
Franz Haslinger.
Daniel Walter.
[The above letter, which is printed as received, was forwarded to
Herr Lambert, who replied : "I agree with Messrs Haslinger and
Walter that it may often be difficult to judge the nature of a med-
ium's phenomena after only a few sittings. Still, my sittings with
Frau Silbert were overwhelmingly convincing for one who sat,
carefully observing, next to her. Those who refuse to believe this
must not forget that Dr Prince and Mr Besterman also had two
sittings each, and that Mr Dingwall, who came to the same con-
clusion as we did, also had sittings with Frau Silbert. Finally,
Messrs Wahrlich, Gierke, Alter, Linhart, and Somogyi had sittings,
on the reports of which Professor Benndorf based his accusations
against this medium. So that the view that Frau Silbert often
produces fraudulent phenomena is based on over a dozen sittings in
which took part nine independent sitters, most of whom were
originally very favourably inclined towards the medium and who
came to the conclusion that she is untrustworthy. Would it not
have been a falsification of the scientific investigation of Frau Sil-
bert's mediumship if all these careful reports had been suppressed ?
"
(Translated)].
REVIEWS.
Dame Edith Lyttelton, Our Superconscious Mind. 8vo, pp. v.
285. London: Philip Allan, 1931. Price 10s. 6d. net.
Like many others interested in psychical research, Mrs Lyttelton
has felt the need of further subdivision of our mental strata ; more
classification becomes desirable as facts accumulate. " Subliminal
"
has been and may remain a useful term, but it has been rather too
December 1931 Reviews 169
inclusive. Myers himself said that it was part rubbish heap and
part king's treasury, for he attributed to it not only the pork-pie-
engendered nightmare, the psychic processes underlying bodily
functions, and the causation of diseases such as neurasthenia, but
also the inspirations of genius and the manifestation of faculties
which we call telepathic, clairvoyant, and the like. Andrew Lang
used to say that, sooner or later, we should have to divide the sub-
liminal into Subliminal One and Subliminal Two ; the former for
the lower phenomena, and Number Two for the higher. But the idea
was not carried out until now. Mrs Lyttelton divides our mental
strata into subconscious, conscious, and superconscious ; a useful
and suitable classification. The subconscious is the " aboriginal in
the basement," while the superconscious is concerned with higher
psychic facrdty and with inspiration, " which is another word for
a message from the superconscious part of mind, which has contact
with a wider world than has the conscious mind "
(p. 41). The
author refers to Freud, Jung, and other psycho-analysts, with
respect for their work but without going into detail or expressing
an opinion on their theories ; then proceeds to a description of
various forms of automatism such as dreams, hypnagogic visions,
visual and auditory hallucinations, automatic writing, crystal
vision, and so on. Instances are given of veridical dreams or other
veridical experiences, a few of these being hitherto unpublished,
but many of them being quoted from Phantasms of the Living or
volumes of our Proceedings. However, most readers have forgotten
them or have not read them in their original place, so it is well that
they should be repeated. The selection is made merely with de-
scriptive intent, or at most as showing the occurrence of supernormal
events ; the question of communication with discarnate minds is
not discussed.
Further chapters deal with the inspiration of the Hebrew prophets,
mysticism, genius ; what Myers called a subliminal uprush is here
called a percolation from the superconscious, which indeed may
receive its inspiration from an external source.
The purport of the book is to show that supernormal things do
happen—that knowledge is received in some unknown way, concern-
ing events distant in time or space ; and to relate modern evidence
to other and older and higher inspirations. The introduction of the
term " superconscious " is a good idea, though Mrs Lyttelton of
course knows well enough that all spatial symbolisms for a non-
spatial thing—the mind—is sure to be inadequate and perhaps
misleading. But it is useful to make these images, and there is a
good deal to be said for the " superconscious."
J. A. H.
170 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1931
H. Dennis Bradley, . . . And After. 8vo, pp. 400, ill. London :
T. Werner Laurie, Ltd., 1931. Price 10s 6d. net.
This book is a record of Mr Bradley's various psychical experiences
since 1925. In the earlier chapters he gives a report of sittings with
a number of mediums for mental phenomena, such as Mrs Osborne
Leonard, Mrs Barkell, Mrs Garrett and Mrs Hester Dowden. The
results were of the usual type and afford some evidence for know-
ledge supernormally acquired. In particular the German " psycho-
metric medium " Frau Lotte Plaatz (sic) described with some
accuracy the physical and mental peculiarities of the former owner
of a gold cigarette-case handed to her by Mr Bradley (pp. 50-3).
It is to the last part of the book that most readers will turn with
special interest. Mr Bradley here describes in detail his exposure
of the well-known " direct-voice " medium, George Valiantine.
This exposure gains additional weight from the fact that Mr Bradley
has been, and to some extent still is, one of Valiantine's most con-
vinced adherents. Briefly, what Mr Bradley proved beyond all
reasonable doubt is that on various occasions alleged supernormal
finger-prints, obtained in some cases on smoked paper, in others on
wax, were fraudulently produced by Valiantine himself. For details
the reader must turn to Mr Bradley, but one point is worth noting
here for its possible bearing on results obtained with other mediums :
in producing these prints Valiantine was found to have used three
parts of his body, his fingers, his elbow joint and his great toe.
Mr Bradley still maintains that the direct-voice phenomena
observed with Valiantine at earlier sittings were genuine, and enters
into furious controversy with Dr Kroner (pp. 107-74), and with Mr
Rossi and Mr Castellini (sic) in regard to suspicious circumstances
noted at sittings in which these various observers took part (pp. 182-
8). To sceptical readers the following question (amongst others)
may occur : If the spirit voices are genuine, how did it happen that
at the sitting of 27 February 1931 (pp. 351 ff.) two of Valiantine's
regular communicators, " Pat O'Brien " and " Bert Everett,"
manifested in the usual way—Mr Bradley notes that Pat O'Brien's
voice was " characteristic " and his words " delivered in a natural
manner "
—and apparently vouched for the genuineness of an
alleged finger-print of the late Sir Henry Segrave, afterwards proved
to be a print of Valiantine's right middle finger ?
But whatever uncomfortable doubts such questions may raise
we can at any rate compliment Mr Bradley on the ingenuity he and
his friends showed in trapping Valiantine and the frankness with
which their discoveries are set forth.
To this Society, as was perhaps to be expected, Mr Bradley has no.
compliments to offer !
H. de G. S.
December 1931 Reviews 171
Gladys Osborne Leonard, My Life in Two Worlds. With a
Foreword by Sir Oliver Lodge. 8vo, pp. ix. 300, portrait.
London : Cassell and Co., Ltd., 1931. Price 7s. 6cl. net.
All those who have had the opportunity of working with Mrs
Leonard agree that her honesty and sincerity are above suspicion.
This enviable reputation will be enhanced by the present book.
For although some of the stories told by Mrs Leonard could no
doubt be explained on less satisfactory lines than those dictated by
her charitable judgment, it is always clear that Mrs Leonard herself
is quite convinced of the reality of what she is describing.
As Sir Oliver says in his Foreword, Mrs Leonard's book
" represents fairly and truly the feelings and interpretations of a
sensitive's experiences, and contains material for psychological
study." Some of the most interesting of such material is contained
in the remarkable and horrible experience gone through by Mrs
Leonard, when, after having some teeth extracted under an anaes-
thetic, she lived through the whole process night after night in sleep
(pp. 18-9). Clearly, it is not all fun to be a medium !
It is pleasant to read Mrs Leonard's tribute to the S.P.R. " The
Society for Psychical Research," she writes, " the officials and
members of which always showed me the greatest sympathy and
consideration, were all delightful sitters with whom it was a pleasure
and satisfaction to work "
(p. 59). And, emanating from the
source they do, the following words on the same page merit careful
attention :
" How greatly the sitter can help one's mediumship to
develop ! The wise, cautious, even sceptical sitter, if he has an
open mind, gets the best results, and is a great factor in definitely
building up, little by little, the psychical and mental forces of the
medium, and even of the control. The credulous,
;
I'm willing to
believe anything, my dear. I don't want tests,' kind of sitter does
not improve the quality of one's mediumship, nor get the best
results."
Mrs Leonard is to be congratulated on a most interesting, modest,
and admirably written book, which no student of the subject will
read without profit. Th. B.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Revue Metapsychique, March-April 1931.
This number opens with a warmly worded obituary notice by Dr
Osty of M. Jean Meyer, the founder and benefactor of the Paris
Institut Metapsychique International, who died on 13 April last.
Incidentally we learn from this notice that the Institute's present
labours are about to give a new impetus to the researches bearing
172 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1931
on " the creative power of thought." We wish these researches
every success.
The same writer has a lengthy paper on " How to discover, to
develop and not to pervert the faculty of supernormal knowledge."
Incidents connected with Pascal Forthuny's alleged powers are
briefly narrated, some, undoubtedly, very striking (p. 106). Much
to be commended is Dr Osty's advice to researchers to apply the
subject's supernormal faculties only to realities, which can be con-
trolled (p. 113). Though to many of us such advice will appear
superfluous, it is, I am afraid, very useful so far as the average
investigator is concerned.
M. Delevsky pursues his study of " The Riddle of Premonition."
He gives hardly any facts, only very abstract discussions, many of
which lie quite outside our sphere of research. It almost staggers
one to see such imposing edifices of speculation erected on so slender
a basis of fact. The paper is still unfinished.
M. de Vesme brings to a close his very instructive study of stigma-
tised persons, including " luminous " or perfumed stigmata, " plas-
tic " ones, stigmata in the heart, etc. The evidential value of the
cases (also of the categories of alleged " phenomena ") differs widely.
Of peculiar interest is the chapter dealing with stigmata in connection
with non-Catholics. The impression left by this chapter can, I think,
be summed up thus : the difference is so tremendous that one almost
hesitates to say that it is not so much qualitative as quantitative.
On the other hand, Roman Catholics themselves have acknowledged
that per se stigmata are not evidence of holiness. A characteristic
instance occurs on p. 137, where a case of stigmatisation occurring
in the lifetime of St Ignatius of Loyola is quoted which the founder
of the Jesuits put down to diabolical intervention, on account of
the girl's by no means virtuous behaviour.
I may add that a case of apparently quite authentic stigmatisation
seems to have just been medically attested at Naples, where, on the
death of Madre Maria Landi, a Franciscan nun who had a great
reputation for sanctity, the presence of five stigmata on her hands,
feet and left side was officially registered after examination of the
dead body by four physicians and Cardinal Ascalesi, Archbishop of
Naples. A proces-verbal was then drawn up, we are told, and sent
to the Vatican (my authority is the Kolnische Zeitung of 13 April
1931).
Revue Metapsychique, May-June 1931.
Dr Hericourt, a veteran of hypnotic research, reproduces a case
of (apparent) somnambulism at a distance, presented by him, as far
back as 30 November 1885, to the Societe de psychologic physiologique,
and supplements it with particulars hitherto unpublished.
December 1931 Notes on Periodicals 173
M. Delevsky concludes his paper on " The Riddle of Premonition,"
on which paper Dr Osty comments with approval. He is quite
certain however, he says, that the attitude of the scientific world
towards premonition will be in no way modified by M. Delevsky's
line of argument : with which statement I thoroughly and very
willingly agree.
In a short paper on " Cosmic Rays," Professor Richet hints at
" memorable results " to be soon made public, obtained by Dr Osty
at the Institut Metapsychique. It is to be presumed these have
something to do with Rudi Schneider, who, as the same number of
the Revue informs us, has been awarded by the Institut a prize of
5,000 francs.
M. Cesar de Vesme has an interesting paper on crystal-vision
among Moslems. In the Chronique M. Maurice Maire is somewhat
sarcastic about M. Tanagras's " psychobolic " theory.
Revue Metapsychique, July-August 1931.
This number opens with a paper by Dr Osty introducing "An
Inquiry into gift or science of the dowser " ; it is followed by a series
of detailed statements by various French dowsers. All are of a
thoroughly positive character, though most deny that we have to
deal here with a special " gift." One of the rhabdomancers, the
Abbe Mermet, asserts (p. 270) that he is able to operate successfully
over a plan of the locality to be investigated, thousands of kilometres
from the locality itself.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, April 1931.
Dr Wilhelm G. Herz has a short paper on the mental processes and
sensations produced by peyotl. It has no direct connection with
our researches.
Dr Erich Kindborg discusses the " Principles of parapsychical
research " and narrates another apport (flowers) in the presence of
his medium Frau S. Though differing widely from the author on
most points, I find myself in agreement with him when he attempts
to show the absurdity (my expression) of controlling all the sitters
taking part in a sitting and not the medium alone.
My thanks are due to Dr Siinner, the Editor, for criticising my
" Notes on Periodicals " in the January number of the Journal and
for bringing in this way to Dr Albert Hellwig's knowledge the
expression of my sympathy (in connection with the Frenzel trial in
Potsdam) which might otherwise have remained unknown to him.
This editorial note introduces an article by Dr Haslinger, of Graz,
who attacks Mr Besterman at length chiefly on account of his criti-
cisms of Frau Silbert, the Graz medium. To Dr Haslinger's paper
are appended translations of two similar articles by Mr De Brath and
Mrs Barbara McKenzie.
174 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 193L
In Kleine Mitteilungen Dr Morell has a few lines on the case of the
clairvoyant Fred Marion. He thinks that this clairvoyant's per-
formances are based partly on tricks, partly on a genuine super-
normal power.
ZeitscTirift fur Parapsychologie, May 1931.
Professor E. von Liszt, of Vienna, describes some experiments in
the " clairvoyant " reading of letters with a certain Franz Reissig.
Chance-coincidence appears quite excluded (a welcome feature !),
seeing that Reissig repeatedly mentioned names both of people and
of places ; on the other hand the method of blindfolding adopted
seems to have been quite inadequate. However, in one case, we are
told, Reissig gave a name which was not in the letter.
An extraordinary case of a Poltergeist, going as far back as 1738
and occurring in a priest's house, is narrated by Herr Hans Hanig.
The writer admits that some of the phenomena may have been
produced by a person closely connected with Father Heydrich ;
for
others he is inclined to postulate a transcendental origin.
Dr Martin Wagenschein has a paper on " Everyday parapsycho-
logy," in which various small occurrences are described suggesting
community of thought between husband and wife, etc. Mme
Camilla Lucerna relates various spontaneous episodes in her own
experience which she supposes to have been of an " occult " nature.
Dr Mannheimer, of Vienna, discusses " Transcausal Physics and
Parapsychology." " Causality," he thinks, " has ceased to be a
conditio sine qua non for parapsychology, since it has ceased to be
one for physics itself." The article exemplifies once more that
curious disregard of what is the essence of the problem. For surely
but few intelligent and learned men will nowadays reject alleged
supernormal phenomena merely on account of their contradicting
some scientific law. If such men often choose to remain sceptical,
it is chiefly because the conditions under which these phenomena
too frequently occur are such as not to compel us to brush aside
laws for the reality of which there is after all very impressive if not
overwhelming evidence.
Professor L. Jahn, of Cologne, has a paper on " Spirit-seeing,"
in which several cases are related, mostly at secondhand. One con-
nected with a " clairvoyant " medium, Frau W., and observed by
the writer himself, is striking and seems, as described, to exclude a
normal explanation.
In Kleine Mitteilungen, Baroness Anna von Dalwigk describes
very strange happenings in connection with a pearl necklace worn
by her sister. Mysterious knots were tied in this necklace ;
the
Baroness saw it one day move by itself, then stand upright " straight
as a candle " ; when she put her hand upon it, it offered some resis-
December 1931 Notes on Periodicals 175
tance before sinking down. On the same evening it suddenly fell to
pieces, leaving a wide red mark on the neck of the Baroness's sister.
If not " written up " the account is certainly remarkable.
An apparently premonitory dream is described at secondhand by
Dr Hans Briimmer. Dr Freudenberg in a short article contrasts
" personal " and " impersonal " psychometry, a phenomenon in
which, he thinks, the medium's individuality is a factor of peculiar
importance.
Zeitschrift fur metapsychische Forschung, January-May 1931.
In the January number Herr Florizel von Renter has a short paper
on the American " clairaudient " medium Arthur Ford. Herr von
Reuter has no doubt of Ford's powers.
Dr Chr. Schroder pursues (January-March) his vindication of the
physical mediumship of Lajos Papp and Tibor Molnar, both of
Budapest. Mr Besterman is violently taken to task. A passage is
quoted from an article by Prof. Kasnacich in the Neues Licht where,
d propos of Frau Silbert, Mr Besterman is stated to be probably an
emissary of the " atheistic International " !
This Prof. Kasnacich pursues (January-February) and brings to
a close his paper on sittings with Frau Silbert in 1919-1922. He
alleges to have seen with her a full-form materialisation. In the
March number there is a series of articles on Prof. Schroder d propos
of his sixtieth birthday.
The latter gentleman informs us that in the forthcoming first
number of the Mitteilungen of his Institute for Metapsychical Re-
search a detailed description will be printed of a new method for
obtaining cinematographic films in total darkness by means of
ultra-violet rays.
Baroness Ottilie von Bistram narrates an extraordinary case of a
prediction made to her some three years ago by a Miss Chesten,
" undoubtedly the greatest English clairvoyante" in which predic-
tion, some fourteen days before the Bazar de la Charite fire (Paris),
the catastrophe was predicted and the name of the Duchess d' Alencon
mentioned as that of the chief victim. The Westminster Gazette is
said to have been privately informed of the matter beforehand and to
have acknowledged the fact in print. Various references to the S.P.R.
betray a certain lack of accuracy on the narrator's part, but this
would not justify us in dismissing the Baroness's account de piano.
(The fire in question occurred, so far as I can remember, in May 1897.)
Count Rehbinder prints the first instalment of a paper on will-o'-
the wisps, which he considers as an
' ;
unsolved riddle " in nature.
Herr Albert Langer attempts to refute objections raised against
Herr Kordon-Veri's " experiments " with cards, which seem much
to resemble card tricks.
176 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1931
Omitting various other articles which either seem to me unimpor-
tant or have already appeared in other publications, I come to a
very remarkable case of hallucination connected with a death
alleged by a Herr R. Reinisch to have occurred to Herr Rudolph
Greinz, a Munich poet. The hallucination seems in this case to have
taken the form of a newspaper announcement, a most unusual
feature. The case is secondhand. I trust I may be allowed to appeal
through the Journal to our German and in particular to our Munich
members to attempt to bring this incident to a higher evidential
level. P.-P.-S.
Psychic Research, February 1931.
Mr Carrington has a very useful and interesting article entitled
'
' What Constitutes a Psychical Researcher.
'
' There are some things
in the article with which one cannot agree, such as Mr Carrington's
almost Hiimian remarks on the connection between the quality of
evidence required and the relative incredibility of the phenomena.
Again, Mr Carrington by implication finds lycanthropy more incred-
ible than any phenomenon accepted by students of psychical re-
search. Personally I find lycanthropy very much less incredible
than the dematerialisation and rematerialisation of a human being,
a phenomenon which is accepted by many students. Lycanthropy
could be explained on the same lines as Gurney's explanation of
witchcraft : for the " impossible " phenomena there is probably
no evidence, and the residuum is probably due to isolated and extreme
forms of atavism. But how can one even begin to explain the de-
and re-materialisation of a living being ? However, apart from one
or two such points Mr Carrington's article is very sound. How one
agrees with his remark that " whatever attitude one may assume,
it is sure to be '
wrong '
in the estimation of a large number of per-
sons " ! Th. B.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
No. 481.—Vol. XXVII. January 1932
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1,
ON
WEDNESDAY, 2j January ig32, at 5.30 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
"ON THE EVIDENCE FOR SUPERNORMAL
OCCURRENCES IN CLASSICAL ANTIQUITY"
WILL BE READ BY
Professor E. R. DODDS
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
. and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
L
178 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1932
PRIVATE MEETING.
Ancient or Unknown Controls.
The 109th Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday, 25
November. 1931, at 5.30 p.m.. Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the
Chair.
Mr A. W. Trethewy read a paper entitled " Personalities of
Controls and Communicators bearing Ancient or Unknown Names ",
which is printed below, slightly abridged.
It is difficult to frame a short title for this paper. May I give an
explanation ? Firstly the paper is written for believers in super-
normal phenomena, physical and mental, for those who are con-
vinced that genuine cases do occur though there have been instances
of deception. In the cases to be considered I take the good faith
of the medium for granted. My object is to initiate a discussion
of " Controls ", including " Communicators ", who do not claim to
have been associated on earth with any person now living. By
narrowing the field in this way a large class is excluded, chiefly
consisting of deceased relatives and friends of sitters. I deal only
with " Controls " whose description of themselves cannot be
checked by reference to the memories of persons still alive. I have
in view mainly historical characters and the bearers of symbolic
names such as Truth, Power, etc., who give no further indication
of their identity. Let us consider the historical characters first.
They are well represented in the mediumship of Stainton Moses by
such figures as Grocyn, John Dee and Elizabeth Barton, the Holy
Maid of Kent, who quoted incidents of their lives on earth in
support of their claims to the characters they assumed. These
details were checked by consulting biographies. Where the infor- *
mation tallied with the literary authorities it could be attributed
to the subliminal mind of the medium who might have read or
heard the account and his recollection have faded. It might also
be ascribed to the clairvoyance of the medium on the lines of a
book-test. Rector did actually quote the words of a book to
Stainton Moses as an experiment. Other " Controls " might have
consulted their biographies in the same way, and indeed were said
to have done so to refresh their memories. On the other hand if
there was no record corroborating the statement it was hard to say
whether the soi-disant spirit had invented the story, or the bio-
graphy was incomplete. So the question of identity cannot be
settled on these lines. It is even more difficult to come to a con-
clusion about entities who are silent about their antecedents or
claim a character of whom there is no record.
It will take us a step on the way if we can decide whether the
professed spirit is a subliminal creation of the medium, including
January 1932 Private Meeting 179
in this term a secondary personality, or is a being external to the
medium. Let us take the case of the Holy Maid of Kent. She
began to write an account of her life through the hand of Stainton
Moses, but as her writing was hard to read, she made way for the
*>
Control " Doctor who wrote for her what she wished to say. As
long as she used the pen she made correct statements, but when she
made over charge to Doctor he made a serious inaccuracy. It
certainly does look as if there were two personalities, the Holy
Maid who knew all the facts, and Doctor her guarantor, who had
got up his case badly.
Another incident to be considered is the simultaneous manifesta-
tions of Grocyn and Catherine Speer. Grocyn was making some
extraordinary musical sounds, and was so engrossed in his work
that he forgot to regulate the power, and the oversight had dangerous
consequences for Stainton Moses who was found doubled up on the
ground. As the seance was in the dark his condition was not
observed till Catherine gave repeated warnings that something was
wrong. A light was then struck, and the meeting closed. The most
plausible explanation of this incident is that Grocyn and Catherine
were separate entities who used Stainton Moses's organism at the
same time for independent purposes. This seems much more likely
than that such a scene was part of the plot of a subliminal drama.
A similar situation, but less convincing, may be found in the
Piper records. Rector gives teaching to a sitter, G. B. D., whose
relations are said to be present in spirit. The by-play between them
and Rector looks very like the talk of separate entities. [A passage
is here omitted relating to G. Geley, Clairvoyance and Materialisa-
tion (1927), pp. 258-260].
Other instances of the apparent independence of " Controls
"
are the cases in which mediums, speaking in trance or with the
direct voice, or writing automatically, exhibit knowledge or quali-
ties which they do not seem to possess under normal conditions.
There have been many occasions on which a language unknown to
the medium has been spoken by the control.
This part of the argument may be summarised by the statement
that there have been cases in which the probabilities seem to be in
favour of the " Control " being an entity independent of the medium,
rather than a subliminal creation. This conclusion does not commit
us to the recognition of the truth of the " Controls " claim to the
alleged identity. Some of Stainton Moses's " Controls ", though
they displayed no traits actually at variance with their alleged
antecedents, failed to show knowledge and qualities appropriate to
their parts. Perhaps their unfamiliarity with the processes of
communication furnished them with a reasonable excuse for their
defects. If they were not the persons they professed to be, were
180 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1932
they simply personating spirits deceiving the circle for purposes of
their own ? There seems reason to suppose that such personation
does occur with some mediums. But Imperator, the head of
Stainton Moses's band, made a very good defence against such a
charge. He argued that it was unjust to suppose that spirits with
teaching to give like theirs could start their mission with lies in
their mouths about their credentials. There certainly is a good
deal in this contention. It is difficult to believe that, with their
motives being so good as they appeared, the Controls gave false
names in order to ensure a hearing.
The position of Mrs Piper's " Controls " is even more uncertain.
They seem to have been independent of her, but they signally
failed to establish their claims to be identical with Stainton Moses's
" Controls " bearing the same symbolical names such as Imperatorr
Rector, etc. They gave different names for their lives on earth,
and their stories not only fell short of proof, but showed the claims
to be untrue. There is nevertheless the same difficulty in believing
them guilty of wilful deceit. They did excellent work with Mrs
Piper, managed her powers well, and gave some fine teaching. Such
spirits are not likely to have lied for the sake of getting access to the
medium.
A possible solution seems to me that when a " Control " says he
was a particular person in his life on earth, he does not signify just
what we should mean by such words. Personality may not persist
after death with unchanged nature, it may become more complex*
At first there is apparently not much difference, but in later stages
the constitution may change and combine with other spirits. Or it
may be that the personality even on earth is more complex than it
seems to us, but only part of it is revealed, the remainder lying
under the subliminal level for subsequent development. The
consideration of such questions must be speculative in that there is
no experimental knowledge, and no source of information, except
perhaps the teachings of religion and philosophy, and the com-
munications from spirits. I may refer to two recent messages
among several, which have been published on this subject. There
is an article by Miss Gibbes in the magazine Psychic Science for
July, describing two simultaneous visits of Myers to different
mediums, and his explanation of his use of two personalities at the
same time. In the paper Light of 14 August, Power, the Control of
Mrs Morris, is quoted as saying that the spirit realises personality
after passing from physical life, being different from what it was on
earth. Power said that he himself had become so identical with
those spirits of the higher state who were working for the evolution
of mankind, that even the name he had given was simply one
which represented a great store-house, or register of power ; the
January 1932 Private Meeting LSI
message which he gave came from many. This statement resembles
the group theory of the spiritualists that the higher spirits blend
into groups and have a corporate existence in that union. The
word group must not be construed literally, it is only the nearest
way to approach the idea in human thought and language. The
Theosophical belief in a greater self embracing many individual
souls is of much the same kind. Perhaps some such theory will go
some part of the way to help us to understand the " Controls
"
point of view regarding his antecedents on earth. [A passage based
on Mr Trethewy's Biblical Criticism and Psychical Research (1930),
pp. 58-64, 88, 89, is here omitted.]
Now, let me state my conclusions. I have dealt mainly with the
work of Stainton Moses and Mrs Piper, because these are the two
mediums whom I have studied most. As to the former, there is
good reason to suppose that his historical " Controls " had an
external and independent entity. Even so, it is of course con-
ceivable that the characters assumed by them were not those of
their real past, but fictitious garbs forced on them by the subliminal
fancies of the medium. There is, however, no indication of such
influence ; the names were not what he expected, and were extracted
from the " Controls " with difficulty. Most of them played their
parts fairly well, and some of them seemed to know more about the
lives of the persons they professed to have been, than did the
medium and the sitters. Making due allowance for changes of
personality after the expiry of long periods, I think it not un-
reasonable to believe that there was some connection between, say
Imperator and the prophet Malachi, though they were not identical
in the same sense as a person recently deceased and his spirit. To
turn to the
'
' Controls
'
' of Mrs Piper, the case for their independent
existence is hardly so strong, and one cannot feel that the claims to
identity with the spirits inspiring Stainton Moses were not due to
her subliminal fancies. I would, however, acquit the " Controls
"
(if they had an independent existence, as is quite likely) of any
dishonest intention in the way of false personation. If they had no
right to the assumed characters, the claims were made for them,
unconsciously of course, by the medium and not by themselves.
The good work they did for her, and the high tone of their messages
furnish a sufficient reply to any charge of wilful fraud.
Though I am not prepared to argue that the " Controls " of
Stainton Moses and Mrs Piper were the same entities, it does seem
possible to me that the same " Control " may work for two mediums
and give to each of them a different account of his life on earth.
As perhaps in the case with ourselves also, he may have a more
complex constitution than we realise. He and we may be governed
by several influences which are parts of ourselves, but in another
182 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1932
sense independent of us and not restricted to ourselves, capable of
affecting others at the same time. If such an influence was part of
the composition of Stainton Moses's Imperator it could conceivably
have inspired Malachi long ago, and Mrs Piper's Imperator in
these days, besides other beings at the same times. I can also
imagine that Imperator, instead of being governed by the influence,
was that influence itself, personified temporarily for Stainton
Moses and Mrs Piper. This is merely an attempt to indicate in a
general manner an example of the lines on which an explanation
may be sought. My point is that we should always keep our eyes
oj)en to the possibilities of there being conditions which we cannot
appreciate, but which, if we could realise them, would throw light
on puzzling situations. Was it not William James who argued that
the universe was truthful, and that we were not always at the
mercy of a monkeying subliminal ?
Much of what has been said above about historical "Controls"
applies also to " Controls " who bear only symbolical names (e.g.
Power), and do not mention any particular character for the life on
earth. They may be regarded as having been associated with one
or more persons who once lived on earth, unless some other explana-
tion appears more likely, e.g. a secondary personality of the
medium. There have been instances, especially with planehette in
China, of " Controls " assuming the names of characters of fiction,
but I have never studied such cases. They might originate in
subliminal creation, or in personation hardly false, or even from
previous existences on earth if the character was taken from life
by the author of the work of fiction. Perhaps some member who
has considered such " Controls " can contribute to the discussion.
The Chairman, the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, Mr J. Hettinger,
Mr G. R. S. Mead, Mr W. H. Salter, the Rev. J. W. Hayes, Mr J\
W. Findlater, and Dr V. J. Woolley took part in the discussion.
A PROPHECY IN OLD MOORE'S ALMANACK.
A correspondent of the Sunday Times recently drew attention to-
a prophecy in Old Moore's Almanack 1
for 1931. This prophecy
reads as follows :
" The Government will be hampered and the
Autumn may witness a General Election, resulting in the return of
a Party with a strong working majority. Politically, Britain will
get a Committee of National Progress, not an obsolete three-Party
system of Government." This forms part of a general forecast for
1
There are several Almanacks with this name. That here referred to is the
one published by Messrs W. Foulsham and Co., Ltd. The copy in the British
Museum was received on 14 August, 1930.
January 1932 A Prophecy in Old Moore's Almanack 183
1931. More specifically, as part of the forecast for October 1931,
appeared the following passage :
" The celestial aspects indicate a
political crisis of the first magnitude, followed by a fall of the
Government and a General Election in which a new National Party
will be returned. Foreign and Empire trade will be one of the main
issues upon which the Election will be fought.*' The coincidence
between the facts and the isolated extracts from the Almanack is
close ; and it accordingly seems worth while to inquire further
into the matter.
Although these forecasts err in detail (e.g. foreign and Empire
trade was hardly one of the main issues of the Election), still, they
are substantially accurate ; and it seems desirable, therefore, to
inquire whether they were merely an isolated hit, or whether they
form part of a series of successes.
Restricting ourselves to similar political events during the past
ten years we find that Governments fell or took office in October
1922, November 1923 (Parliament dissolved), January 1924,
October 1924, November 1924, May 1929, June 1929. Not one of
these was forecast by Old Moore. On the other hand falls of
governments, general elections or the formation of new governments
were forecast for March 1923, November 1923 (" new Cabinet "),
March 1927, December 1927, January 1928, April 1929, July 1929,
August 1929, October 1929, October 1930. In addition there
are such ambiguous prophecies as (August 1922) :
" The Govern-
ment will be subjected to censure and strong criticism and the
voice of the people will prove effectual for good." It is remarkable
that none of these forecasts should have come off even by chance,
especially when ordinary political knowledge is assumed. Thus it
was known that the Conservative Ministry of 1924 would come to
an end in 1929 ; Parliament was actually dissolved in May of that
year and the Labour Ministry took office in June. Old Moore made
four attempts, but unluckily plumped for April, July, August and
October. It seems clear that the successful forecast for October
1931 is an isolated hit. reasonably to be expected by chance alone,
for, while the forecast of a National Party stands alone, Old Moore
forecast the victory of a Reform Party for March 1923 and of a
Coalition Government for October 1930.
Let us now see whether the forecast for October 1931 formed part
of an accurate prevision of the situation as a whole. For November
1931 Old Moore prophesied " a month of great prosperity for Old
England. Payment of foreign debts will be received, and internal
trade conditions will improve. The export trade will be satis-
factory. ..." For Mr MacDonald Old Moore foresaw " a serious
political reversal which will be completed in November." Both of
these prophecies could hardly have been less accurate. Th. B.
184 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1932
CORRESPONDENCE.
AN INTERESTING HALLUCINATION.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir, —On Saturday morning (28 November 1931) I received a
letter from my lawyer saying that he enclosed a cheque for £10.
As I was away from home, and too busy to have any opportunity
either to reply to the lawyer or to send the cheque to my bank, I
carried it about whilst I was talking to some friends, peering into
the envelope occasionally to see whether the cheque was safely
there (as I had a good many papers with me and was anxious not
to lose it). It was finally packed with special care, and I had pleasing
memories throughout the day of seeing the marbled pale colours of
the cheque and the look of the writing on it.
I got home late that evening, and next morning when I looked
inside the envelope, to my extreme surprise there was no cheque.
Completely puzzled I spent the morning looking through all my
papers and into the lining of my trunk and into every imaginable
crevice. Finally in despair I decided it must somehow have slipped
out of the envelope and I sadly wrote a letter to the lawyer to
confess my carelessness and to ask them to stop the cheque. My
lawyer replied by return saying he had looked through their counter-
foils but could find no record of the cheque, and that he must
somehow have omitted to send it ; he made good the oversight
with apologies.
My memory of having seen the cheque in the first letter was so
clear and persistent that it amounted, I think, to an hallucination.
I find that even now I find it very hard to accept this statement,
though commonsense naturally assures me it must be true. This
case, I think (though it does not reflect on my powers of observation
in at all a flattering way) is of interest to psychical researchers as
evidence for the entire unreliability of memory under the strong
influence of expectation. If cross-examined in a court of law I
would have said with complete and absolute conviction that I had
seen and handled the cheque in the first letter, and yet, when
analysed, that sense of conviction rests on nothing stronger than
an hallucination prompted by emotion and expectation.
Yours, etc.,
Ina Jephson.
[Miss Jephson adds, in reply to a question, that there was nothing
in her bag resembling a cheque. This hallucination gains in interest
from the fact that in a recent experiment in the psychology of
testimony in the Society seance-room, Miss Jephson obtained
higher marks than any other sitter.
—
Ed.]
January 1932 Reviews 185
EEVIEWS.
Sir Oliver Lodge, Past Years : an Autobiography, 8vo, pp. 364,
16 portraits and ill. London : Hodder and Stoughton, 1931.
Price 20s. net.
All who know and appreciate Sir Oliver Lodge, and not least
members of our Society who realise what he has done for psychical
research, will welcome this book and read it with much interest. It
is not of course in the main occupied with psychical research, which
was never his principal subject of investigation and of which he
practically knew nothing till he became acquainted with Gurney
and Myers in the eighties. The book, after describing his family
history, his educational opportunities and difficulties, his struggles
in early manhood to combine reading by himself for examinations
with earning a livelihood as assistant lecturer in various institutions,
and settling him as Professor of Physics at Liverpool, goes on to his
own scientific work which has brought him so much fame. A
great deal of space is naturally occupied by this, and much of it
will probably be skipped, though popularly written, by readers
who are not physicists themselves, nor have followed the problems
which are and have been occupying physicists of recent years. The
part of the book most interesting to psychical researchers generally
will doubtless be the author's account of his own introduction to
psychical research and the development of his interest in it. which
will be found chiefly in Chapters XXII. XXIII and XXIV. For
the effect on his own mental development in relation to it see
Chapter XXVIII.
The book is well illustrated, chiefly by portraits, and I especially
recommend readers not to overlook a photograph of Sir Oliver and
Lady Lodge and their twelve children opposite p. 256.
E. M. S.
Charles Kichet, L'Avenir et la Premonition. 8vo, pp. 248. Paris :
Editions Montaigne [1931]. Price 12fr.
In this little work Professor Richet has set himself one main
task, that is to say to establish the fact that premonitions actually
occur. He defines the term " premonition " as knowledge of the
future by means other than the ordinary sensory channels, by
intuitions which depend neither on perspicacity, reasoning or logic.
The larger part of the book is occupied in giving condensed reports
of some 140 to 150 cases of premonition. Professor Richet disclaims
any attempt at a methodical order of classification of his cases, in
view of his main object in writing the book. He has arranged them
in six groups : A, his own personal observations ;
B, those of his
personal friends ;
C, various observations (this is, of course, the
186 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1932
largest of the classes) ;
D, monitions of approach, that is to say
" arrival " cases ;
E, premonitions in games of chance, races, etc. ~,
F, warning cases. Of these class D contains cases which, as he
recognises, might strictly be classed as monitions rather than
premonitions, but as the line dividing the two sorts of phenomena
is so vague and the data for making a decision so sparse, arrival
cases may and should fairly be studied in any work dealing with
premonition.
He also distinguishes between premonitions and auto-premoni-
tions, the latter being cases where the foreknowledge shown may
have been derived from a more intimate knowledge of the state
of the seer's organism than is possessed by the normal supraliminal
mind. Such cases would seem to be excluded by his definition.
Professor Richet claims that all cases which he cites are well
evidenced, either by documents or the testimony of reputable
witnesses.
It seems an almost irresistible conclusion, in face of the mass of
evidence adduced, that, if human testimony be capable of establish-
ing the truth of any statement of fact, knowledge of the future is
sometimes acquired by certain persons. In his Preface he enumer-
ates these possible hypotheses to account for this knowledge. A,
fraud and mal-observation ; B, chance ;
C, an inexplicable lucidity
on the part of the seer. The first, he claims, is disallowed by the
character of the witnesses and the circumstances of the cases which
he has chosen for citation. The second, viz. chance, he discusses
in detail in many cases, giving numerical estimates where possible,
and he comes to the conclusion that, while chance could possibly
account for the facts, the probability against it is so large that the
hypothesis may be excluded. There remains only the inexplicable
lucidity.
As a collection of cases the book is wholly admirable, the accounts
are brief but adequate, the style in which the whole is written
renders it easy and pleasing to read. It lacks that ponderosity and
dulness which is so often found in works of this character.
In the fourth section Professor Richet gives some interesting
discussions of various considerations connected with the subject,
such as whether the phenomena found with professional mediums
should be studied, the practical inutility of premonitions, and so
on. He also replies to certain objections which have been raised.
It is only in the last section that any really controversial matter
is to be found, that is to say, apart from the acceptance or rejection
of supernormal knowledge of the future as actually existing.
Professor Richet arrives at several conclusions. He considers that
the future is, in the main, unknowable in spite of the existence of
the sporadic glimpses of it afforded by premonition. He considers
January 1932 Reviews 187
that premonition is not more mysterious and inexplicable than
monition, under which heading he would include telepathy, clair-
voyance and telaesthesia generally.
He states his opinion that the existence of premonition proves
that the future is completely determined, but while his remarks on
this point and on the connected matter of morals are of the greatest
interest, it is permissible to point out that, in strict logic, the
existence of occasional premonitions does not prove that all the
future is determined ; the most it could be held to prove, even if the
argument be valid, is that those particular events which were
foreseen were predetermined. Because a very few isolated events
have been foreknown we cannot argue therefrom that all events
could have been foreknown, yet that is what must be shown in
order to prove the complete determination of the future.
It may quite well be that only those events which actually are
predetermined are the possible subjects of premonition and, while
one may dissent from the theory of complete determination of the
future, few will be prepared to deny its partial determination.
Moreover those somewhat rare " warning " cases where the premoni-
tion has enabled the actors in the affair to avert the foreseen hap-
pening seem to give direct testimony against the determinist theory.
Professor Bichet has an evident repugnance for metaphysical
speculation, but it is unfortunately the case that any theoretical
discussion of premonition is bound to land one into metaphysics.
In his Preface he says that this little book will probably be the last
which he will publish. It is to be hoped that this, at any rate, will
prove to be a false premonition and that Professor Bichet may long
continue to enrich the literature of psychical research with the
fruits of his wide knowledge and the outpourings of his graceful
pen. H. F. Saltmarsh.
Harry Price, Regurgitation and the Duncan Mediumship. 8vo,
pp. 116, 41 ill. Bulletin of the National Laboratory of
Psychical Research : London 1931. Price 5s. net.
In March 1931 Mr and Mrs Duncan came to London to fulfil a
contract with the London Spiritualist Alliance. Their contract
was to give to the Alliance a number of sittings for a fixed remuner-
ation and to hold no other sittings elsewhere.
Mr Price tells us that in April they approached him with an
offer of one specimen sitting to be followed by others if desired.
This offer he gladly accepted and in the end he appears to have
made it worth while for them to allow at his Laboratory conditions
which were far more rigid than any that had been allowed at the
L.S.A. In particular he was allowed to take flashlight photographs
18!S Journal of Society for Psychical Research January id32
of the so-called teleplasm in all sorts of manifestations, and it is
these devastating photographs which constitute the main interest
of his book. No unbiased reader who examines them will have
the slightest doubt that what the Duncans claimed to be supernormal
substances were in fact materials of the most ordinary kinds. The
supposed teleplasm was cheesecloth. The same holes and crease-
marks appeared in the pictures evening after evening. The
materialised hand was a housemaid's rubber glove. (It is much
too clumsy for a surgeon, as Mr Price suggests.) In the original
photographs, which Mr Price kindly showed me some months ago,
there appear too an obvious safety pin and some kind of stiff
structure supporting the glove and cheesecloth, but these are
practically indistinguishable in the published prints. This is the
more to be regretted since the photographs are by far the most
important pieces of evidence here presented. The only non-
photographic material secured was a portion of alleged teleplasm
removed from the medium's mouth at the last sitting. This
proved on analysis to consist of several layers of cheap paper stuck
together with white of egg.
The nature of the " teleplasm ", however, was only one half of
the problem. The other half was to determine how Mrs Duncan
brought it into the room, exhibited it, and got it out again. Here,
unfortunately, the results obtained are far less satisfactory. Mr
Price is now quite sure that it is done by the materials being
swallowed beforehand, brought up during the sitting, and re-
swallowed at its close. On the evidence at our disposal it is the most
probable theory, and so long as we remember that Mrs Duncan was
never seen to swallow or regurgitate anything, nor was any foreign
substance found in her pharynx, we shall do no harm by believing
it until a better explanation can be found. It depends entirely on
the fact that Mr Price believes that he excluded every other possible
method of concealment, and such a line of argument is a very
unsafe one in discussing the modus operandi of any conjuring trick,
as I think Mr Price would be the first to agree. It would however,
be unfair not to mention that among the photographs are included
two control pictures showing the extraordinarily small bulk occupied
by an enormous sheet of cheesecloth when closely rolled up, and
that the account given of the physical examination of the medium,
in the search for concealed substances, is extremely complete and
convincing.
Five sittings in all were held. After the fifth the photographs
were shown to Mr Duncan with the suggestion that Mrs Duncan
should allow a film to be made of the whole performance in return
for a fee of £100. The offer was not accepted and the Duncans soon
afterwards left for Scotland.
January 1932 Reviews 189
In conclusion Mr Price asks the reader a number of questions
regarding the Duncans' motives, and concludes "it is all very
puzzling ". I do not think the puzzle is very difficult. They went
to Mr Price because they wanted to make some more money in
addition to their payment from the L.S.A. and because they thought
that from their point of view Mr Price was on the side of the angels.
Unfortunately for them they left out certain factors from their
calculation, possibly not knowing of their existence, and never
knew of their mistake until Mr Price produced the photographs
after the fifth sitting.
In support of the regurgitation theory Mr Price has quoted a
number of interesting cases, some illustrated, of professional
entertainers who have earned a living by swallowing and returning
a varied assortment of objects, including living animals. He might
have said rather more of the people who do the same with their
food in private for their own enjoyment. Numbers of cases can be
found referred to in works of medicine under the heading of
rumination or merycism. All these cases are of interest in this
connection as showing the comparative ease with which voluntary
control over the gastric and oesophageal muscles can be developed,
and that it is quite unnecessary to suppose the existence of a double
stomach or an oesophageal diverticulum.
On p. 27 Mr Price has made an unfortunate mistake in relating
at second or third hand an incident at an L.S.A. sitting, where the
" teleplasm " caught on the edge of Mrs Duncan's platform and
she believed it was being held or trodden on by a sitter. This
rough edge was later planed smooth. The only other matter which
seems open to criticism is the rather contradictory wording both of
the notes taken at the sitting and of the notes made afterwards.
With a disarming frankness Mr Price says. " In the protocol it is
stated that the teleplasm was '
issuing from her mouth ', '
coming
from her nostrils.' etc. This is a little misleading. Actually we
did not see it coming in a stream from the medium's facial orifices
as the protocol suggests ". Then one can only say that the protocol
should not suggest it. The only use of a contemporary note is to
state precisely what occurs and what the sitters do see.
On the same page Mr Price in his own note (not the protocol)
says, " The teleplasm . . . coiled itself and squirmed upon the
floor ;
it entangled itself round the chair ... it shortened itself and
lengthened itself ; it twisted itself up into a short, thick rope
slightly damp and with an odour. Of course, all these transforma-
tions were caused by the medium who was manipulating it." But
in that case it did not coil itself or entangle itself. The medium
coiled it, and so on. and it seems only misleading to describe the
process in any other way. In the present instance this method of
190 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1932
description is not important because the misleading description is
corrected later by a qualifying clause. But supposing that the
narrator is describing phenomena which he comes to believe later
to be genuine, and uses the same picturesque inaccuracy, he will
then not put in any qualifying clause and we shall get a most
startling description which may be quite inconsistent with fact.
To sum up, however, the photographs speak for themselves and
they teach us at least two things. First that the taking of flashlight
photographs of alleged mediumistic phenomena may be of the
greatest value in detecting fraud and so, by corollary, of establishing
what is genuine, and second that the physical examination of a
medium cannot be considered complete unless we are able to know
that nothing is concealed in the stomach or oesophagus. Mr Price
has not so far suggested any practicable technique for such a control
and neither can I. V. J. Woolley.
Edmund Selous, Thought Transference (or What ?) in Birds. 8vo,
pp. xi. 255. London : Constable and Co., Ltd., 1931. Price
7s. 6d. net.
This interesting book, by a well-known naturalist, seeks to find
an explanation for the simultaneous concerted movements of
flocks of birds. The author's argument is stated in the Preface as
follows :
" If birds, when together, act in the same way simultane-
ously, they must do so either in response to some extraneous event
which affects them through the senses, as known to us, at one and
the same time, or because influenced in some other way than this,
known or unknown, or by coincidence merely ", and is illustrated
by records of observations of bird behaviour from 1900 onwards,
with a running comment.
Coincidence we may, with the author, dismiss offhand. Mr
Selous's observations clearly negative any theory that the flocks
act on the word of command of an " avine drill-sergeant " or that
the flock simply imitates the movements of one or two enterprising
members. Sometimes a flock may be set in motion by a common
stimulus perceptible to the observer, e.g. the report of a gun, but
Mr Selous points out that in creatures so inquisitive as birds not
all sources of danger produce immediate flight, and that many of
the movements seem to result from pleasurable emotions rather
than fear. He suggests as an explanation some community of
mental process between each member of the flock, akin to telepathy
between human beings.
He has no doubt, from his reading of the evidence published by
the S.P.R., supplemented by his own investigations, of the existence
of human telepathy, and suggests that, while in mankind this
acuity is exceptional in its occurrence, in birds it is much more
January 1932 Reviews 191
frequent and " more perfect in its application to the needs and acts
of daily life ", normal in fact rather than supernormal.
The title of the book is not altogether happy, as what the author
postulates is " collective cerebration " rather than the transference
of thought from one bird to another. But before we can usefully
speak of " collective cerebration " in birds, it would be desirable to
define what kind and degree of " cerebration " is to be attributed
to the individual bird. May there, for instance, be stimuli such as
currents of air, light or heat, not perceptible to even so experienced
•a human observer as Mr Selous, but producing motions on the part
of birds, whether individually or collectively, without any precedent
act equivalent to what we call " thought " in ourselves ?
W. H. Salter.
A. F. Webling, Something Beyond. 8vo, pp. ix. 277. Cambridge :
University Press, 1931. Price 10s. 6d. net.
This book, although not primarily concerned with our subject,
should be of some interest to psychical researchers, in that it shows
the effect of a study of the records of psychical research on a certain
type of mind.
The author, whose autobiography it is, was the son of a horse
dealer, and entered the church after beginning life as a city clerk.
He traces his religious experiences through a staunch faith in
Anglo-Catholicism to Modernism and doubt, and after passing
through great mental turmoil finds in the records of psychical
research a scientific confirmation of religious faith, being con-
vinced of survival solely through a study of these records, and
without any conscious psychical experience whatever.
The section devoted to the author's study of psychical research
is interesting, but would be more so if we knew what books, in
addition to Myers's Human Personality, had comprised his reading.
He assures us that his critical faculty was not in abeyance during
his study, but admits to " a will to believe " and appears to accept
telekinesis, and even the " direct voice ", without practical experi-
ence of either of these phenomena. The author's sincerity is
apparent throughout.
S. R. W. Wilson.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, June 1931.
Under the title of " A contribution to the question of a con-
nection between hysteria and mediumship " the Editor (Dr Siinner)
has a paper on the supposed abnormal experiences of a married
woman living in a village in Slovakia. Whatever may be thought
1.92 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1932
of her personal trustworthiness, it must be admitted that the
results of the observations made by both Dr Siinner and Professor
Hugo Szanto, of Bratislava (Pressburg) in this case were practically
nil.
Dr Armin Mittelberger describes a sitting for physical phenomena
with Herr Kordon-Veri. Since the latter's friend, Dr Albert
Langer, was also present, as seems to be the rule on such occasions
(and was even searched), I think the origin of the " phenomena "
may be reasonably attributed, whatever their character, to both
these gentlemen, not to Kordon-Veri alone.
Dr A. Fitz, of Pasoeroean, Java, describes a sitting with a
Chinese medium who spoke in trance in the name of various Javanese
deceased persons. It is asserted, or at least implied, that evidence of
supernormal knowledge was afforded by the medium, but Dr Fitz's
account is far too insufficiently detailed to base upon it any positive
conclusions.
Geheimrat Prof. Ludwig describes a case of a clairvoyant dream
or vision which a father had in 1923 in connection with his son's
murder (of a political character). The case is undoubtedly inter-
esting.
Herr R. Lambert speaks of the present " crisis " in the S.P.R.
and concludes by expressing the hope that a way out of this crisis,
which according to him threatens to paralyse the progress of
" paraphysics ", will be found. Incidentally he admits his belonging,
so far as belief in physical phenomena is concerned, to the " dubi-
tivists " (to use Dr Schroder's terminology), whom he rightly
considers to constitute a link between " parapsychology " and
official science (which, he adds, is hardly ready to admit even
telepathy). Should they be excluded from the researches, the work
of the " positivists ", even if these monopolise the mediums, may
be completely sterile. A most judicious remark.
In a short obituary notice on the late M. Jean Meyer, the founder
of the Institut metapsychique international, Dr Tischner regrets that
hitherto Germany has not been fortunate enough to possess " so
disinterested and magnanimous a patron " : a characteristic
admission.
Frl. Dr Gerda Walther attempts to show the utterly unsatisfactory
character of the public performances of a certain Herr W. Gubisch
who pretended to expose " physical phenomena ".
A propos of Dr Osty's paper in the Revue metapsychique for
November-December 1930, exposing the Polish medium Stanislawa PY
Dr Siinner prints a note admitting that suspicious circumstances
had been already observed at Stanislawa P.'s sittings last year in
Berlin. " We did not by any means ", he says, " regard this medium
as genuine ". P.-P.-S.
No. 482.—Vol. XXVII. Februaby 1932
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
The Annual General Meeting of the
Members of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i,
ON
WEDNESDAY, 24 February 1932, at 3.30 p.m.
N.B.
—
The formal Notice has been circulated to Members.
194 Jotirnal of Society for Psychical Research February 193
NEW MEMBERS.
{Elected 30 December 1931.)
Herbert, Benson, Winskill, Low Fell, Co. Durham.
Librarian, Case Memorial Library of the Hartford Seminary
Foundation, 55 Elizabeth Street, Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Story, Mrs, 6 Redcliffe Square, S.W. 10.
Turnbull, A, M. D., Le Chalet, Farnham Royal, Bucks.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 289th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 30 December 1931, at 3.45 p.m.,
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttleton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There
were also present : Professor E. R. Dodds, Mr L. S. Fletcher, Miss
Ina Jephson, Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart., Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr J. G.
Piddington, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Dr F. C. S. Schiller,
Mr S. G. Soal, and Dr V. J. Woolley ; also Mr Theodore Besterman,
Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Four new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
Mr Piddington announced that, having completed thirty years'
continuous service on the Council, he now wished to retire. The
Council learned of Mr Piddington's decision with great regret, and
appointed Mr L. S. Fletcher to be an elected Member of Council in
his place.
The 290th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Thursday, 14 January 1932, at 3.15 p.m., Mr
L. S. Fletcher in the Chair. There were also present : Mr W. R.
Bousfield, K.C., Miss Ina Jephson, Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.,
Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr W. Whately Smith, and Mr
S. G. Soal ; also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and Editor,
and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
The Report of the Council for 1931 was considered, and adopted
as amended.
A Committee consisting of Mr L. S. Fletcher, Sir Lawrence J.
Jones, Dame Edith Lyttelton, and Mr W. H. Salter, was appointed
to consider the celebration of the Society's jubilee.
February 1932 The Society's Seance-Room 195
THE SOCIETY'S STANCE-ROOM.
The attention of Members and Associates is called to the fact that
the Society's seance-room is available for experiments, on the
understanding that a representative nominated by the Council
should be entitled to be present on every occasion as an observer.
Applications for the use of the room should be made to Sirs W. H.
Salter. S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
ECONOMIES FOE 1932 APPROVED BY THE
COUNCIL.
In view of the need for economy (which all scientific societies have
to face) the Council, on the unanimous recommendation of the
Committee appointed in November, have been forced to curtail the
Society's expenditure in several directions. In particular they have
decided to discontinue the salary paid to Dr Woolley's personal
assistant, and the payment for the reviewing of foreign periodicals.
They have also been obliged to curtail the salary of the Assistant
Secretary, but are very glad to be able to retain her services for
half-time.
The Council greatly regret that Dr Woolley, who was not in
agreement with some of these decisions, resigned from the Society
immediately after the decisions were made. Dr Woolley had been
Hon. Research Officer for eight years and before that was Joint
Hon. Secretary (with Mrs Sidgwick) for some years, and Members
will regret the termination of his long association with the Society.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR THE YEAR 1931.
The Society's Jubilee. By the time of our next Annual General
Meeting the Society, which was founded in February 1882 and is
much the oldest Society formed for Psychical Research, will have
completed fifty years of activity. During its fifty years of life the
Society has naturally encountered many obstacles, and the Council
considers that its success in surmounting them has been due to the
fact that it has resolutely pursued the policy and followed the
methods laid down by the founders.
The financial position. The Council regrets that a time when all
members of the Society would naturally wish to congratulate them-
selves on the Society having attained its jubilee, should coincide
with a period of unprecedented financial stress. It would, however,
be idle to disregard the fact that the most important feature of the
year 1931 has been the world-wide economic crisis. This has seri-
196 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1932
ously affected the position of the Society, as it has other Societies
relying on voluntary support, owing to the resignations of Members
and Associates, who on account of financial stringency feel that they
can no longer continue their subscriptions. In the Council's opinion
the losses that the Society has sustained in this way are less severe,
having regard to the losses sustained by other Societies, than might
have been expected, but they are none the less serious.
The Council in November appointed a special Committee to
review the financial situation of the Society and to make recom-
mendations, and as the result has instituted certain changes which
will to some extent relieve the financial situation during the year
1931.
It is possible that the Society might check, temporarily at least,
this decline in membership by adopting a policy at variance with
that which it has followed ever since its formation : if it were, for
instance, in regard to the question of survival, to which the Society
has devoted much work, to become a propagandist body, or if it
were to endeavour to attract publicity by sensational methods.
But the Council is not tempted even to contemplate a policy which,
whatever temporary increase of membership it might bring, would
in the end damage the Society irretrievably. It recognises that there
has been a certain amount of dissatisfaction with the policy of the
Society ; but it proposes to adhere to its cautious and critical pro-
cedure, as likely to attain the best results in the long run. The
Society is actively engaged in important, if not in sensational work,
of a kind essential to the furtherance of psychical research, which
no other Society is attempting to perform. The Council accordingly
appeals with confidence to all Members and Associates to support
the Society to the utmost of their abilities during the present
economic crisis.
Spontaneous Phenomena. Two houses, in East London and
Hampshire respectively, were visited by Mrs Brackenbury during
the year to investigate the origin of noises for which the inhabitants
could not account. In the Hampshire case the noises were found to
be produced normally by a young member of the family, while in
the other case nothing abnormal occurred during the visits of the
investigators. Mr Besterman investigated a supposed case of
haunting in Yorkshire, and was able to explain it satisfactorily to
the persons concerned, who had invited him to look into it.
Research Work. During the year a number of visits were made to
mediums by Dr Woolley and Mrs Brackenbury, and in addition a
series of sittings was carried out by them with a young and little
known medium who was brought to the Society's notice by a
member. These sittings, though on the whole disappointing, gave
some instances of probably supernormal knowledge.
Febiu-aky 1932 Annual Report of the Council 197
Among the other mediums was Mrs Duncan, whose public sittings
were attended twice, while Mrs Brackenbury was also enabled to
attend one of her private sittings by the courtesy of the Research
Committee of the London Spiritualist Alliance.
Experiments were carried out with a view to testing the theory
of the late Dr Kilner on the perception of a so-called aura by an
eye fatigued by a di-cyanin screen.
Experiments in telepathy were carried out for some time by Mrs
Brackenbury with a lady who is not a member of the Society, but
they were interrupted by the illness of the latter and have not yet
been resumed.
A large number of experiments has also been made by the Research
Department on the manufacture, by normal means, of " paraffin
gloves " similar to those produced in the course of the sittings of
the medium Kluski, and a further important series on the methods
which may be used to make artificial reproductions of impressions
and prints of human skin on such substances as dental wax.
Besides this experimental work, the Society's records and docu-
ments relating to the unpublished poltergeist cases have been re-filed
and classified so that they can be readily referred to for study and
comparison.
Among the cases examined was an account appearing in a daily
newspaper of the alleged success of a medium in detecting and
securing the arrest of a lunatic responsible for the " Whitechapel
murders " of 1888. A prolonged investigation finally showed that
the article had appeared, almost word for word, in a Chicago news-
paper of 1895, while no confirmation of the alleged incidents could
be obtained either from police officers who worked in Whitechapel
at the time and were interviewed for the purpose, or from the
present staff at Scotland Yard.
The work with regard to telepathy and clairvoyance mentioned in
the Reports for the last few years is still being actively pursued, and
as it proceeds it becomes increasingly evident that the proper under-
standing of these two subjects lies at the root of all other inquiry
into the mental phenomena of psychical research. The present
stage of inquiry is of necessity to a large extent statistical, and on
that ground may appear to be uninteresting to those who are not
mathematically minded, but it is difficult to see how any progress
can be made without it.
To come to details, Mr Soal has now completed his very careful
and elaborate report on the experiments in telepathy at a distance
carried on under his supervision, and this report is now in the
printers' hands.
Miss Jephson is continuing her researches in clairvoyance with
cards. Parties for collecting data have very kindly been given by
m2
198 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1932
Dr Broad in Cambridge, and by Miss Carruthers, and the Oxford
S.P.R. has also contributed a large quantity of data. Points which
may prove of considerable interest have arisen and Miss Jephson is
continuing the series with a view to verifying and throwing further
light on them.
Owing to the special nature of the booktests which have been so
prominent a feature of Mrs Leonard's mediumship, it is not possible
directly to estimate their evidential value. This can only be done
indirectly by means of control experiments, that is, by comparing
the results obtained by chance alone. Two series of experiments
on these lines, carried out during the year by Mr Besterman, showed
that the results obtained in true booktests were greatly superior to
those obtained by chance, even under the most favourable condi-
tions. A report appears in Part 121 of Proceedings.
During the year Mr Besterman has begun work on a careful
analysis of all available records of sittings with Mrs Leonard. The
principal object of this investigation is to study comparatively the
characteristics of different Communicators as manifested in the
records. In addition to the records of the series of sittings held
under the Society's control in 1918, Mr Besterman is using for this
purpose the records in the possession of Mrs Fernald, Lord Charles
Hope, the Rev. W. S. Irving, Mrs Salter, Mr Montgomery Smith,
the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, Mr John F. Thomas, Miss Nea
Walker, and others, amounting so far to the records of over six
hundred sittings. The opportunity of using still further records
would be warmly welcomed.
On the invitation of our Hon. Associate, Dr Tanagras, President
of the Hellenic Society for Psychical Research, experiments in long-
distance telepathy have been begun between a group in London
organised by Mr Besterman and one in Athens. Dr Tanagras has
been very active in the past in promoting experiments in long-
distance telepathy between Continental groups in different cities,
and it is hoped that the present experiments will give useful results.
In last year's Report reference was made to preliminary work
having been done with a view to a systematic study of the psycho-
logy of testimony as applied to paraphysical phenomena. Experi-
ments to further this work, which have been organised by Mr
Besterman, have been carried out during the year in the Society's
seance-room, and a report has now been completed. Several
psychologists and others have expressed their sense of the import-
ance of these experiments.
The Council wishes to thank those Members and Associates who
have co-operated in the different kinds of work above mentioned.
The Library. The Carnegie United Kingdom Trust has now paid
the fourth and last annual instalment of the grant of £1,000 to the
February 1932 Annual Report of the Council 199
Library. With the aid of this grant the Library has been more than
doubled in extent and very greatly improved in value. The number
of books and pamphlets in the Library now stands at about 7,100,
an increase of 200 during the year.
Ninety Members borrowed 714 volumes, and in addition a con-
siderable number of volumes was consulted in the Library. These
figures show a slight decrease from last year, corresponding to the
reduction in Membership, but they do not include the 104 volumes
borrowed by the National Central Library, a considerable increase
over last year. Members continued to a limited extent to exercise
their privilege of borrowing from the National Central Library,
through the Society, books not in the Society's Library.
The Society was again represented by Mr Besterman at the
Annual Conference (at Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford) of the Associa-
tion of Special Libraries and Information Bureaux, to which the
Society is affiliated.
Myers Memorial Lecture. The Second Frederic W. H. Myers
Lecture, entitled " Beneath the Threshold," was delivered by Dr
T. W. Mitchell in the Conway Hall, London, on 24 June. Copies of
the Lecture are obtainable at the Rooms of the Society, price Is.
The Society's Presidents. Dr Walter Franklin Prince, the Research
Officer of the Boston S.P.R., honoured our Society by consenting to
be re-elected as President for the year 1931.
Prof. Hans Driesch, who was President of the Society in 1926-
1927, and who is the recognised leader of psychical research in
Germany, was elected a Vice-President of the Society.
Hon. Treasurership of the Society. Mr W. H. Salter, who had for
a long time been anxious to retire from the Hon. Treasurership of
the Society as soon as a successor was ready to take over the duties,
retired in October and was succeeded in the post by Mr L. S.
Fletcher, who had shortly before that date been co-opted a member
of Council. The Council congratulates itself on having secured Mr
Fletcher as an Hon. Officer of the Society.
Changes in the Council. In addition to Mr L. S. Fletcher, Lord
Charles Hope and Mr H. F. Saltmarsh have been co-opted as
members of Council ; their names will be familiar to all Members and
Associates as active workers for several years in psychical research.
Obituary. During the past year the Society has lost by death
seven Members and 15 Associates, one Corresponding Member and
one Hon. Associate, including the following, who by long member-
ship or otherwise have been valuable supporters of the Society :
Mr Edgar Baruch, Lady Battersea, Mrs Robert Bevan, Mr F. G.
Bromberg, Colonel J. A. Edelsten, The Dowager Lady Farrer,
Genera] Sir Reginald Hart, V.C., Miss Mabel Holland, and Mrs Tait.
Several of these had been members for upwards of forty years.
CD C CO
O CD 03
O O OS
00 O CD
CD
CD O
t-- Ol
^ rH
OOt^-COCOOt^i-HO^tHCOOOOOCO
t>t>C0OC:00C:00cDU^TiHrH00NiCiHI>CD
03 OS N n ^ lO h rl N H H rl CO iO
IS
iH ^ O O O
O rH O i-H O
C
C 1
c o i-h o © C OS
-f iO (M
rH CI
c 00 OS 1ft 00 /. o c rH c ' • > >
c
H
rH
c
1-1
CO O lA o
i-H
iO
rH
m
iH
iH 00 CO CO l-
tH
c
rH
rH
*D
ctf
CO
C 1
CO CI
H
rH
O
rH
-f
c*l
O
CD
OS
CO
<*
rH
cn
lO OS
H
CO
IN o
CD
c+i
CO CD
O rH
CO CO
OS OS
t
"a
s
8
« so S
g ft,
co tn Pq
^ q ^ eg
CO i-l CO 00 O
r- o
i-H
CSJ
GO
of
a
a
-a '3
S 3
£^
o
•g S
a 2
« S
o
S
'
-3 M
a o
£"8 8
y H 2
O
CO
2
-
C J
.9 »
is &
35
s
<3
.d S
o -2
oo '« H a
S: ,3 03
O m .a
O ? S
8 3 •
a O
s
<u a
3 « 3
— pq >>
1
-Id
fell
_ „ -4-S OT Q
- <D <U O
9 t> -rt
"g 2
1 &
g CO
t-I O ai CO
o O O © O
J3
em
3
O
M
«
a
3
2 &
t-i Ol
O CO
O O
trt
^ "3
'S s
3 3
3
f3 ao
eg
—
—
3
O
<m o to to
H H to 00
e> o o o
rH
H CO M O
„ » cs a
a | H B
«S S c§
S8s
ft tj 0 o
&3
-S ."2 S
0 0=?
1^ a s
r-i ^ +-
CO m ot
£ CD cu
53 S
t3
,:
C
&7
I
-
_
-
H
-
5 I |a
-~-
*a t-i -4
sis i
Kl ^ Q3 £
Si
cs o <M X
X rH
CO
T-I 1-f
CO
C4i
r
CM
r o
CO
q
D
-
-
•s *
S 1
03
pa
t3
S
53
•5 o
cq K) &j fe<
Si
a
tj
a
c
CO iO
: f 2 m o I -
CO 1-1 o
—
i
CM
trt
r-l
•3 1
S 8
8 <
a
CP
2 §
CO
"8
=
S °
a o
<W S
S Eh I?
—WO
^ «
o
CO *+
CO O cc
CO OS
CO
oa
ft*
s
i.
'
—
i
fei
a
s
_
a
-i Q
p
PS
p*.
5= » W
^i » g
U h t
R h? Ph P4
13
S a
iH -g
- <u
1 a
e o
CO C O i-H
CD iH OS CO
H rH H
OS tH
m co
CO £
1
1
-a g
1 T
O - - -
Eh " -
5
B
s
co o o 2
3 0 0
CO
CD 00
H
i-l in
CI co
<M ©
PL, *>
•S
.8
05 „
M -8 G)
T3
s 60 o
«1
"
s 1
o a
co
a co
C
K
M
CO a
5
I f
w
H
<
c
n
S5
:-
H
v.
g
£
c
-
S5
2 co
r-l co
O I
-1
S J T3 m
° B
. o
CO
° a
to Si
3 I 3
H > &
a a S
OS rQ cu
" CO h-<
•so*
"5 g to
a g
• CO
:
3 s
i
o
C3 OS
> >
SI»K»3 <3 »
3*
.
Cj "O :3 =
H o a d
S § B E
d
B
o o o o o r~* © o o o o
0©^00©r-<©00©0
I—I T—
I
©©O©0c0i-Hr~mo0©©
^(Ot01QQQ03H>OG4fi1N
^- c*l =4 c+l 5*1 5*1 5*1
^ N- 5*1
i_<
-
BBC
O M 1-1
fn
? #»
B <» 03
O 3 d
hi H H
§ g
5*1 5+1 5*1 5+1 c+l
P
c
2
BS
43 S H O
B m > CO
S B B
Boo
<! O O
o B B o
S .a
B £ -
M Q Ph
.0) t/3
OJ cj
1
Tf "#
o
s
° c
2 w .a
O 03 -
LO 0j §
si S & is
g H e
3
a o
B .
o o o
§ fa
-
o m
O
tn O O
O O u
CUE OQ 03
hi <a
fa W
B ft
5*1 CJ
O
« C
B E ci
e3 rt
£ hS .s =; s w
o
o
- 2 a a
BEE
O O h-<
d -a
ci li s« »
a!
S -3
g ° h-I
B —
o ^ ° °
H S 2 .o
fM CM CO
CM O
! o to
E E on tn S
O O « cS t, „
h-1 Hi 3 W Pn CJ —
OOOOOO'OOO CO
"d
-HC100OOOOOOOOO ° hi
co c-i o o c c o c-i o o o ^9
m o m o m o co o ^ cj O' O h—
it) ttl 51 N Cfl CI CI Ob LO IQ lO n _
w>. « til c*i - c+t c*i - t*l 5*1 |; j §
-d
c
=
Eg
^
204 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Febkdary 1932
Membership of the Society. The total resignations taking effect
between January 1931 and January 1932 amount to 84 Members
and 28 Associates. The majority of these are due solely to financial
stringency, and many members resigning on this ground hope to
rejoin later. In addition 12 Members and six Associates have been
removed for non-payment of subscription.
The new Members elected number 36, and also one Hon. Associate ;
and one Associate became a Member. The total membership of the
Society is now, including, in addition to 18 Honorary and Cor-
responding Members and 10 Hon. Associates, 501 Members and
308 Associates. As mentioned in last year's report it is inevitable
that the number of Associates should decline so long as the rule of
not electing new Associates is maintained.
The 1932 International Congress. During the year the Council
made various preliminary arrangements for the holding of the
Fifth International Congress in London in the autumn of 1932. in
accordance with the decision of the Athens Congress of 1930. The
serious economic position, however, which developed during the
autumn made it necessary for the Council to inform the Inter-
national Committee that any arrangements made must for the time
being be considered provisional. Since then the absence of any
improvement has compelled the Council with great regret to request
the International Committee to arrange for a postponement of the
Congress. As the depression is world-wide, it is expected that the
Council's request will meet with general approval abroad.
Monthly Meetings. In the spring the Council decided that it
would be desirable that so far as possible the meetings of the Society
should be held at a fixed time on a fixed day, and that more oppor-
tunity should be given to members to discuss the papers after they
were read. Meetings have accordingly been held at 5.30 p.m. (after
tea at 4.45) on the last Wednesday in each month from May on-
wards (except the holiday months), and have been well attended.
The papers have been followed by interesting discussions.
It is not intended to limit the papers read at these monthly meet-
ings to those offered for publication in full in Proceedings. When it
is not intended to publish the paper in Proceedings, a summary of
it, and of any interesting points raised in the discussion, is printed
in the Journal.
The Council believes that these meetings are doing a useful work
in keeping members in touch with each other and with the Society's
work.
Publications. Five parts of Proceedings were published during the
year : Part 117 and 120 in February, Part 118 in April, Part 119
in May, and Part 121 in July.
The Secretary's sales to the general public amounted to
February 1932 Correspondence 205
£73 17s. lOd. (an increase of £33 15s. 4d. on last year's sales), and
of the Proceedings and Journal to members of the Society, to
£66 lis. 2d. ; the total returns from the Society's agent in America
amounted, after deduction of commission, to £5 lis. 4d. The sale
of the Transactions of the Athens Congress amounted to £55 14s. 2d.
Meetings. The following meetings have been held during the
year :
26 Feb. Annual General Meeting.
29 April. " Poltergeists," papers by Mr W. H. Salter and Mrs
Brackenbury.
27 May. " Booktests," by Mr Theodore Besterman.
24 June. Second F. W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture :
" Beneath
the Threshold," by Dr T. W. Mitchell.
30 Sept. " A Consideration of a Series of Proxy Sittings," by the
Rev. 0. Drayton Thomas.
28 Oct. " Is Proof of Survival Possible ?
" by Mr H. F. Salt-
marsh.
25 Nov. " Personalities of Controls and Communicators bearing
Ancient or Unknown Names," by Mr A. W. Trethewy.
30 Dec. " A History of George Valiantine," by Mrs W. H. Salter.
CORRESPONDENCE.
METHODS IN EXPERIMENTAL TELEPATHY.
[In the Journal for October 1931 (xxvii. 130-5) appeared a letter
from Mr Soal criticising the telepathic experiments of M. R. War-
collier, d propos of Professor Gardner Murphy's comments on them
in Proceedings, xl. 102-3. M. Warcollier and Professor Murphy
were invited to reply to these criticisms ; their answers are printed
below. The former's letter, a personal one addressed to Mr Soal,
is printed by M. Warcollier's kind permission.
—
Ed.]
... I unfortunately lack the time to reply to your letter as it
deserves. I have no objections to make. I quite agree with you :
my work is that of an amateur. Having occupied myself with
telepathy during the past twenty-five years only in my leisure
hours, I have never been able to do really scientific work and I am
far from being satisfied. I have done what I could, but my work
is not as positive as I could have wished, just as yours has been
negative against your inclinations. The important thing is that we
have both of us done something.
Unfortunately the critical period we are about to encounter
(from an economic point of view) has compelled me to suspend our
telepathic reunions. If one day I have the necessary time (and
206 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1932
much is needed !) it is my intention to begin again on new lines, in
particular on those you suggest (prepared designs drawn at random,
etc.), and I would publish the statistics that you very properly ask
for. One table which would be very interesting would show the
percentage of success obtained by each subject during the years of
our experiments. It would show that the hits are obtained by only
a few subjects, whereas the coincidences due to chance are found
among all the subjects ; this holds good for such a period of time as
a succession of months. Then these good subjects obtain no more
successes, but their imaginations continue to " perceive " images,
which, although just as numerous or even more numerous, no longer
coincide with reality, whereas other percipients now obtain series of
successes. The same thing is observed in a single sitting : a success-
ful experiment is usually not isolated, two or three are obtained at
the same time.
You criticise above all " mental contagion." You are quite right
;
but allow me to remind you that I have not spoken of it for several
years, although the results continue to be remarkable. But the
phenomenon is too complex to be explained at present. It may be
that it is largely due to a " psychic parallelism," but I am inclined
to think that this is itself favourable to telepathy. I know that I
shall appear ridiculous in maintaining this position, but it is the
duty of those who, like you and I, do pioneering work, to take risks.
There remains one point about which I disagree with you. For
me success in telepathy does not consist in a servile copy of the
object transmitted, but rather in a translation, a schematic or
symbolic interpretation which, I know, greatly complicates the task
of the mathematician. But, you will reply, there are cards, numbers,
etc. I can only repeat that in France such experiments are not liked.
We have not the earnestness of the Anglo-Saxon, and I could not
have maintained a group for ten years with such stodgy experi-
ments : they are perfect from the mathematical point of view, but
psychologically impossible.
Allow me to point out an omission in your " cobra " illustration.
You refer to the association of ideas with birds, islands, etc., but
please note that I first drew a serpent almost identical with the
original and that I had a very clear and disagreeable impression of
a reptile. This does not prove that telepathy occurred, but you will
agree that this detail is not unimportant.
It appears to me further that your argument from the calculus of
probability is not opposed to mine. Consider, for instance, a rifle-
man of mediocre skill. His shots are very uncertain. He has six
shots. The first is not badly placed, the second is a little better,
the third is a bull's eye, the fourth is very bad, the fifth a little less
bad. the sixth fairly bad. This may be due, for instance, to the
Febkuary 1932 Correspondence 207
fact that the rifle is too heavy for him. It might be maintained that
his success was due to chance, but the rifleman himself would always
question this.
I remember having examined a beginner in qualitative analytical
chemistry. I introduced a little silver solution into a test tube and
gave it to him for analysis. When he handed me his observations
I saw with surprise that he had described the silver, but with it half-
a-dozen other substances which were not in the tube. The number
of substances that he knew how to describe not exceeding half-a-
dozen, he would have had a good chance to hit on silver if he had
obtained his results by chance, since he mentioned all the metals
that he knew. Questioned, the student explained that he had really
obtained the reactions of silver, but that he had no doubt diluted
the contents of the test tube with ordinary water instead of distilled
water. In fact, the substances that he found at the same time as
the silver could well have been introduced by water from the tap,
but I could not enter into such considerations, as you will agree,
and I ploughed the apprentice chemist. We are little telepathists
who dilute the messages we receive with the impure water of our
imaginations. . . . [Translated.']
R. Warcollier.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—The letter by Mr S. G. Soal in the October issue of the
Journal strikes me as an especially lucid, thoughtful and dispas-
sionate presentation of certain considerations which constantly
disturb us in psychical research, and perhaps above all in the study
of telepathy. It is suggested that I should " reply " to this letter.
If by a " reply " is meant a " rebuttal " I would not reply if I could,
and I could not if I would. I agree with a great deal that Mr Soal
says, and I think the questions which he raises are timely and well
stated. It is true that he and I have read certain materials which
impress him one way and me another way, but it would take a great
deal of space to clear up the issue and would involve reproducing
in the Journal a very large number of drawings and many pages of
material printed in French by M. Warcollier.
For in fact the case is the statement of an attitude towards a
large mass of experimental material, none of which, as far as I can
ascertain, is available to the readers of the Proceedings and the
Journal.1
This material, except for scattered fragments, has ap-
peared in the Revue Metapsychique. To debate with Mr Soal
1
[An abstract of a paper read before the Society by M. Warcollier in 1928
appears in the Journal, xxiv. 319-23.
—
Ed.]
208 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1932
regarding this extensive material, so to speak, " over the heads " of
those who have not had time or opportunity to follow the original
French publications month by month and year by year since 1921
would be discourteous both to the reader and to Mr Soal, and could
not possibly convince anyone.
I am uncertain whether Mr Soal refers to this entire mass of
material or only to certain selected fragments ; and if the latter, to
which ones he refers. Since it is not clear whether his comments
apply to certain samplings or to the entire material, an attempt to
meet him on his own ground would be fruitless. I do know, how-
ever, the unfailing clarity with which Mr Soal has described, both
in print and orally, his own experiments and his own opinions, and
I feel that the very fact that his own experiments have yielded
results very different from those of M. Warcollier requires comment.
The delightful combination of courtesy and sincerity which Mr Soal
shows would call for a reply in kind even if his argument were not
in itself a compelling one.
The first question seems to me this : has M. Warcollier's pro-
cedure led to results which are exactly like those produced by
" chance " ? A priori, one might expect so. Yet the expectation
is not confirmed. In fact, a very large mass of material has shown
that with ordinary persons under ordinary conditions, results like
his fail to appear. I refer, of course, to the Stanford investigations,
to Troland's investigations, to the broadcast experiments in England,
Germany and America, etc. Mr Soal assumes that negative results
of the kind which he has himself obtained will be obtained nearly
always when one gathers together a few ordinary persons (that is,
persons not especially sensitive to telepathic phenomena) ; on this
point I am not only in complete agreement with him, but would
express my conviction with somewhat more positiveness than he
cares to use. It seems to me quite clear from the work I have just
mentioned, as well as from the great body of published telepathic
work ever since 1882, that genuine " sensitives " are exceptional.
On the other hand, the material collected in Phantasms of the Living
and in the " Census of Hallucinations " and in the many other
surveys of apparitions and the like (such as those collected by Mrs
Sidgwick in 1922) indicate that the phenomena are of an order of
rareness which is comparable, let us say, with that of automobile
accidents, rather than of the order of rareness of lunar rainbows.
One would expect, nevertheless, that in a small group of twenty or
thirty ordinary persons working for a year or two, the difference
between the chance expectation and the actual results obtained with
most kinds of material would be slight.
On the other hand, from the same sources one would expect that
persons who are sufficiently sensitive to get brilliant telepathic
February 1932 Correspondence 209'
impressions rather often, say a dozen times a year, are not very
hard to find. During most of the years that I was actively engaged
in telepathic work, it was my rule to give most of my time to the
hunting of good " subjects." I suppose I spent ten hours " hunt-
ing " in preparation for every hour of experimentation. During
the three years I succeeded in finding four individuals who seemed
to be capable of fairly consistent telepathic work—these selected
from many hundreds who in turn were more or less selected from
the general population through special interest in psychic pheno-
mena or through reports of unusual experiences.
Now the difference between really getting results and merely
persuading oneself that one gets results is in some ways a much
more definite task than Mr Soal explains. In the first place, a
person who is not sensitive usually goes for weeks or months with-
out getting any results at all. It is easy to maintain a priori that
some successes will happen ; and yet, using the ordinary kinds of
phenomena—pictures, diagrams, and so forth—such as War-
collier's group uses, I have seen subjects go through a whole winter
of such experimentation without getting any clear results at all that
would even comfort their own minds or revive their flagging interest.
And if I had not seen phenomena obtained by " specially sensitive
"
persons, I should probably long since have given up interest in the
subject, since during twenty years of intermittent experimentation
and three of intensive work, I never personally got, as percipient,
experimental results of a kind which would attract attention or
which could possibly be played up as positive
' :
successes." Empiri-
cally, then, I cannot grant that coincidence does the various wonder-
ful things which are accorded to it.
In the second place, there are ways of calculating coincidence
which seems to me somewhat better than those which Mr Soal has
in mind. In the broadcast experiment from Chicago, all the items
used had been chosen for use by a roulette wheel so that this matter
of " parallel mental habits " might not be invoked as an explanation
of such successes as occurred. In this experiment the number of
animals listed among which the roulette wheel had to choose was
thirty-five. The animal actually chosen by the wheel was a walrus.
Not one single individual out of 2,500 got the walrus. Now shall we
say in the language of pure mathematics that there was one chance
in thirty-five for each person to get the walrus ?
1
If so, the attain-
ment of a zero score is supernormal to an amazing degree. Of course,
the point is that the d priori chances of getting a certain idea are not
to be computed without reference to the details of the situation.
1
[This would be true (leaving preferences out of account) only if the per-
cipients knew which 35 animals had been listed. Otherwise the chance of
getting a hit would only be one in the total number of all animals.
—
Ed.]
2 1 0 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1932
There were, for example, three hundred lions reported. If the
machine had happened to choose a lion, this would have been a
remarkably " supernormal " result. Now safety, of course, lies in
large numbers of items. We calculated how many people actually
got each item right and then calculated how much chance there
would be of any person getting two items right, provided the " hits
"
were accidents. Taking the material not in terms of a priori expecta-
tion but in terms of the empirical fraction which showed how likely
a person was to get a particular idea, the empirical chances of getting
two or more things right during the series was 6 (in 2,500) while the
actual number of such cases was 5. This means simply that we
probably had enough material to permit the gross distortion intro-
duced by the roulette wheel to be ironed out. I do not know
whether the London broadcast material could be subjected to the
same analysis, but I feel reasonably sure that exactly the same kind
of results would be found, that is, that the vast majority of persons
in any given experiment are non-psychic. (The present method is
inapplicable to single " hits," but with numbers and letters our
results were below chance.)
Again, let us return to Warcollier. Is it empirically true that
masses of coincidences of the sort which he has published do really
appear in the process of combining results from different telepathic
series 1 Is it true that the results obtained in one series would
match the materials used by the agents in another series just as
well as they match the material actually used in the given series ?
Is it true that the same individuals who secure successes in some
series which are so far ahead of chance expectation fall behind in
others ? Both Warcollier's data and my own convince me that
successes are shared very unevenly, and that this unevenness main-
tains itself from month to month and from year to year. If the
reader will follow through the Warcollier experiments by the
initials of the percipients, it will be much easier for him to convince
himself of this than it would be for me to convince him by argument.
The longer the series is continued, the more definitely one can tell
whether the bunching of success in the work of particular percipients
is a chance affair or not. This is one of many reasons why a case
like the present cannot be judged at all without considering the very
long period during which the study has been continued. Surely, if
any of Warcollier's group are really sensitive, he is himself sensitive ;
he has been at work on the problem for over twenty years and has
published abundant material on his own results.
I agree that it is frequently impossible to tell to what extent the
selecting of favourable cases out of a large mass of material may
suggest telepathy when no such process is actually at work. My
feeling is simply that Warcollier's best published results remain un-
February 1932 Correspondence 211
affected no matter how many thousands of experiments he has
carried out. In view of the fact that Warcollier's experiments are
usually weekly, rather than daily, and that his publications are
vohiminous, I cannot see that the selection factor can be as serious
as Mr Soal implies ; but even if Warcollier had experimented daily
or hourly for twenty-five years it would not affect the logic of the
situation. The much-quoted figure representing the likelihood of
monkeys typewriting copies of all the books in the British Museum
seems to me comparable to the probability that Warcollier in a life-
time could get, by sheer coincidence, what he has gotten ;
and
whether we give the monkeys a day or a million years, and allow
them one error per volume or a thousand errors, will not affect our
attitude. I cannot make this belief appear reasonable to the reader
unless, by expressing it, I can induce him to read Warcollier for
himself.
Mr Soal is, of course, absolutely right in protesting against the
habit of allowing the agents to choose their own material for
experimentation, especially if it is material noticed during the day.
I think Warcollier agrees with this, and is trying as far as circum-
stances allow to decrease this source of error. How much can be
explained by this fact I do not know. I can again only say that
my own group, though often falling into this very bad habit, did
not thereby get any such results as Warcollier has. In other words,
I think it is a criticism with much & priori force but uncertain
importance. I doubt its relevance in the long-distance work. But
I would certainly agree that since it is easy to eliminate this source
of error, it should be eliminated.
I was not aware of the fact that Warcollier completely failed
while using numbers, playing cards, etc. I should be glad to have
a reference to such experiments.
The middle paragraph on page 133 puzzles me. " If, however,
the American group thinks of a cobra and M. Warcollier has the
impression of, say, exotic birds and climbing plants, how easy to
explain this by saying that exotic birds were associated in the mind
of the agent with the idea of a cobra." This is the only sentence in
his letter which is documented by a footnote, and since the point is
concrete, it calls for a concrete answer. The object chosen in this
experiment was a drawing of a cobra coiled (to strike) and with its
head to the right, thus forming a figure which at a distance of six
or eight feet looked like a large capital S tilted to the right as if in
italics. M. Warcollier received on this occasion a figure like a capital
S tilted to the right, and beside it he wrote, " mouvement de
reptile." It will be noted among the mass of material published by
M. Warcollier that the tilted letter S is at least very rare (I have
run across no figure resembling the one obtained in this series), and
212 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1932
that although there is a fair assortment of animals, reptiles are un-
common. To get both the approximate form and the right charac-
terisation would then be a very different thing from getting simply
the idea of exotic birds and so on, to which Mr Soal refers. This is
but one case among hundreds, and it would be absurd to lay stress
upon it ; but since this is the only case in which Mr Soal's critique
has been specific, I think it only fair to M. Warcollier to point out
that in this one specific criticism due attention was not paid to the
actual results of the experiment. It raises, in fact, some question
as to the possibility of demolishing M. Warcollier's case except by
a very prolonged and exacting inquiry.
I am in entire agreement with Mr Soal as to the desirability of
M. Warcollier's undertaking experiments under some of the con-
trolled conditions Mr Soal outlines. Warcollier fully realises the
desirability of this. In fact, during 1929 we planned out a con-
siderable number of such experiments. It is, however, a matter for
the experimenter to decide as to what is to be done at any given
time, and I am not entirely sure that the division of labour will not
be best served by having M. Warcollier following his own lines for
the present, while others like myself whose groups of percipients
are less successful (not entirely unsuccessful) find a way to supply
the necessary control.
I must repeat that this letter does not and cannot touch the main
point of Mr Soal's thesis. Whether M. Warcollier's results are
supernormal or not is a question to be decided only after reading
extensively in his published work ; and the decision cannot at
present be stated in terms of the theory of probability, but only
with that kind of assent or negation which comes to us after any
prolonged study of a complicated problem. I am certain that M.
Warcollier shares my earnest hope that the more exact quantitative
methods can be successfully applied to types of material such as
those which he has published.
But since the discussion of M. Warcollier's experiments arose in
connection with my plea for a higher standard for papers to be read
at the London Congress, I think it perhaps worth mentioning that
the great majority of Warcollier's hypotheses regarding telepathic
interaction are but slightly altered forms of hypotheses which go
back to the work of Podmore, Gurney, Myers, Mrs Sidgwick, and
other pioneers. Most of his remarks regarding half-conscious or
twilight states, regarding batteries of agents, regarding subliminal
association, and so on, are to be found in literature which is classical
if any of the literature of our subject deserves that name. If it be
true that these hypotheses are unwarranted in relation to prolonged
experimental work with subjects in a normal state, I am not fully
clear as to why they should repeatedly have been invoked in the
February 1932 Correspondence 213
study of exceptional phenomena occurring in the case of medium-
ship. If it be true that real mediumship is exceedingly rare, but, if
found, exceedingly worth studying, and if hypotheses similar to
those of Warcollier have actually been evolved by the pioneers in
our field in an attempt to explain mediumistic phenomena, it would
seem to me at least possible that the testing of these hypotheses on
a large scale should be regarded as a major concern of the psychical
researcher. If I were aware of anyone else besides Warcollier who
is doing this, I should be interested in making a comparative study
regarding the degree of success which each is attaining. What I
personally hope will be accomplished by Warcollier's work is that
in time there may be improvements in experimental and statistical
method by which the mass of data collected by him may achieve
the quantitative significance which he and I would both grant it
lacks at present. It does not seem to me, however, that^the failure
of other experimenters to obtain results which are supernormal
when using methods similar to those of M. Warcollier can be regarded
as weighty, unless it can be established that the percipients used in
the two series of experiments are equally endowed.
Yours, etc.,
Gardner Murphy.
ZEITSCHRIFT FUR PARAPSYCHOLOGIE.
Sir, —Your readers may perhaps be interested to learn what con-
sequences my letter on Frau Silbert in the Journal for July 1931
has had. On 20 November 1931 the proprietor of the Zeitschriftfiir
Parapsychologie wrote to tell me that he had received a command
from his readers to dismiss me from the post of Assistant Editor
which I had held for six years, in order that future conflicts (Bester-
man-Bozzano-Silbert) might be avoided. As the proprietor of the
Zeitschrift is dependent on extremely credulous readers, he was
obliged to obey their command.
[After referring to a parallel incident which has recently occurred
in another country, Herr Lambert proceeds :] Thus the uncritical
believers form everywhere, in Dr Siinner's touching words, a " com-
munity of brothers in the faith," whose members, as he forgot to
add, protect each other from all criticism and who punish every
departure from the dogma of the community by expulsion.
At bottom I am pleased at this solution, as I have for long been
embarrassed to think that I might be regarded by the uninitiated
as sharing the responsibility for the publication of the absolutely
uncritical articles, which, notwithstanding my protests, were
accepted in ever-increasing numbers. During the lifetime of
214 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1932
Schrenck-Notzing, who ruled the Zeitschrift behind the scenes, it
at least maintained a certain standard. Since his death it has fallen
lower and lower and has published articles which even Schrenck-
Notzing rejected as being valueless. It is owing to this lack of
critical spirit, to which Count Perovsky has so often referred in his
Notes on Periodicals, and to the hostile and unfair attitude of the
Zeitschrift towards writers of great merit, that Professor Driesch's
recent withdrawal as an official collaborator in the Zeitschrift is due.
The only hope for scientific psychical research in Germany is that
when the present unfortunate situation all over the world is im-
proved it may at last be possible to establish a really scientific
periodical in which every serious investigator would be able to
express his views, whether positive or negative.
I congratulate you on working for a society which, since its
foundation, has made unprejudiced investigation in our difficult
subject its sole object. [Translated.]
Yours, etc.,
K. Lambert.
[Those of our members who keep in touch with psychical research
on the Continent will deeply regret to hear that Herr Rudolf Lambert
has recently ceased to be Assistant-Editor of the Zeitschrift fur
Parapsychologie. Herr Lambert has been a member of our Society
for many years, and recently contributed to our Journal a letter on
his experiences with Frau Silbert. While he has shown himself on
occasions a frank critic of some aspects of our Society's work, there
are very few psychical researchers outside the United Kingdom who
have upheld with equal force and consistency the ideals and tradi-
tions of our Society. The severance of his connection with the
Zeitschrift must be regarded as a serious setback to psychical
research in the German-speaking countries. —W. H. S.]
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
No. 483 —Vol. XXVII. March 1932
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, 30 March 1932, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"SITTINGS WITH VALIANTINE AND
OTHER MEDIUMS"
WILL BE READ BY
Lord CHARLES HOPE
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
N
216 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1932
PRIVATE MEETINGS.
A History of George Valiantine.
The 110th Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday,
30 December 1931, at 5.30 p.m., the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttleton
in the Chair.
Mrs W. H. Salter read a paper entitled " A History of George
Valiantine ", which it is hoped to publish in an early part of Pro-
ceedings.
During the course of the discussion Dr V. J. Woolley agreed that
in the type of sitting in which Valiantine sat at one end of the
trumpet with the sitter at the other end it was impossible for the
sitter to keep his eyes on the medium's lips.
Mr E. J. Dingwall expressed his gratitude for Mrs Salter's paper,
with which he entirely agreed. In his opinion there was no evidence
whatever that Valiantine possessed any supernormal faculties.
The evidence for the medium's Chinese voices had been stated by
Professor Giles to be valueless. The knowledge of Chinese sounds
could have been easily acquired by the medium in America.
Mr G. P. S. Mead suggested that Chinese tones were very difficult
to imitate.
The Chairman pointed out that this would not be the case if one
had had the opportunity of hearing them.
Mr A. W. Trethewy said that Valiantine's alleged Hindustani
voices were so blurred that they might have been anything.
Supernormal Occurrences in Classical Antiquity.
The 111th Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday,
27 January 1932, at 5.30 p.m., Mrs W. H. Salter in the Chair.
Professor E. R. Dodds read a paper entitled " On the Evidence
for Supernormal Occurrences in Classical Antiquity ", which is
printed below, considerably abridged, and with omission of the
references to sources.
To avoid disappointment, it is well to be clear at the outset as to
the sort of results which may be expected from such inquiries as the
present one. It is certainly hoping too much to suppose that the
authenticity of any phenomenon whose occurrence in the contem-
porary world is disputed can in any substantial degree receive direct
confirmation from the records of past ages. It is safe to say that
not a single narrative which has come down to us from antiquity
reaches the evidential standard that would justify its publication
as a case in the Journal. This was of course recognised by Andrew
Lang, that remarkable polymath, who inaugurated the study of
comparative psychical research nearly forty years ago ; but what
March 1932 Private Meetings 217
impressed him was the wide temporal and geographical distribution
of the testimony to certain phenomena : for example, the ascription
of levitation to the Neoplatonist philosopher Iamblichus in Syria,
the 17th century Italian St Joseph of Cupertino, and the 19th
century medium Home in this country. The evidence, at least
in the first two cases, cannot be called strong ; but why is the same
supernormal happening associated with these three quite uncon-
nected persons ? It is difficult, as he pointed out, to explain such a
distribution on a diffusionist hypothesis.
Personally, I am not disposed to attach quite so much weight
as Lang did to this type of argument. It is obvious that such
uniformity of testimony may often be accounted for by the operation
of a common psychological cause : for example, the alleged levita-
tion both of Iamblichus and of St Joseph seems sufficiently explained
by the idea, common to Neoplatonism and Catholicism, that the
souls of the devout strain upward toward their heavenly home (and
hence may be expected in extreme cases to carry their bodies a
little way with them). Nevertheless, it would be hasty to conclude
that comparative psychical research is concerned only with the
history of opinion and can have no bearing upon questions of fact.
I will venture to propound for your consideration two canons in
this connection. The first is a negative one, namely, that if a
particular supernormal phenomenon, alleged to occur spontaneously
among civilised people in recent times, is not attested at other times
and places of which we have adequate knowledge, the presumption
is thereby increased that it does not occur as alleged, unless it can
be shown that its emergence is conditioned either by an actual
evolutionary change or by a shift in the focus of curiosity, such as
might be produced by a new philosophical outlook. Thus if no
case of telepathy had ever been recorded before, say, 1850, consider-
able doubt would be thrown on the reality of its occurrence since
that date, unless clear reason could be shown for its remaining so
long unnoticed. This canon must of course be used with great
caution, since it involves an argument from silence, the strength of
which will vary widely with the nature of the phenomenon and the
character and amount of the general documentary evidence available
for any particular period and region.
My second canon is this : suppose a phenomenon X to be accepted
as occurring in modern Europe under conditions ABC and only
under these ; if it be recorded as occurring at another time or place
under conditions BCD, then there is a presumption that neither the
presence of A nor the absence of D is necessary to its occurrence.
Here the partial identity of the conditions described in the past
with those under which the phenomenon is obtained to-day offers
some assurance that the earlier narrative is not a piece of free
218 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1932
invention ; and on this assumption the element of difference may
in certain cases be highly instructive.
I propose now to take some of the various types of supernormal
phenomena alleged to occur at the present day, and to ask what
analogues are discoverable in Graeco-Roman literature. I shall
begin with occurrences which seem prima facie referable to tele-
pathy. The earliest spontaneous case known to me is the familiar
tale of the two travellers from Cicero's dialogue on Divination.
I know of no further instances of veridical phantasms of the dying
until we reach that vast treasury of edifying ghost-stories, the
Dialogues of Pope Gregory the Great. Less sensational, and for that
reason less suspect, are some of the examples of telepathy described
by Augustine, who is a far better witness than Pope Gregory, and
has indeed some claim to be considered the first serious student of
psychical research. Particularly interesting is a case of apparent
telepathic rapport between an hysterical patient and a priest who
was in the habit of visiting him. The priest's house was twelve
miles distant from the patient's, and the latter could always tell
the exact moment at which the priest was setting out to visit him,
and would describe exactly all the stages of his journey. He
eventually recovered and his supernormal powers then disappeared.
It will be noticed that these instances of spontaneous telepathy
come from relatively late authors. If it be asked why no case of
the sort is recorded before the 1st century B.C., I think the answer
is probably that until about that time no plausible theoretical
explanation of such cases was available. It was Cicero's teacher
Poseidonius who first gave general currency to the philosophical
doctrine of sympathy, i.e. an underlying unity which was said to
link every fractional mind and every particle of matter in the
universe with every other and with the whole. The earliest extant
author to use this general doctrine as a means of explaining telepathy
and other occult phenomena is Plotinus in the 3rd century a.d. ;
but there is some ground for thinking that the explanation goes
back to Poseidonius himself. And once the theory was established,
facts which would otherwise have been passed over as mere curiosi-
ties of coincidence acquired a possible significance and thus began
to be recorded.
Experiment is in general a still later growth. There is indeed
one celebrated early story which might be claimed as the first
successful case of experimental telepathy. I refer to King Croesus'
ingenious test of asking six different oracles to tell his messenger
what he, Croesus, far away in Sardis, was doing at a certain hour.
The messengers themselves did not know, but from the Delphic
oracle the King's emissary received the correct answer that he was
occupied in boiling a lamb and a tortoise together in a copper
March 1<J32 Private Meetings 219
cauldron. In later antiquity, various oracles laid claim to telepathic
or clairvoyant powers, and there were also private clairvoyants.
One feat in particular, the reading of sealed letters, gave rise to
considerable controversy between believers and sceptics. Among
professional clairvoyant mediums the one best known to us is
Albicerius of Carthage, of whose powers several instances are related
in detail by Augustine.
Belief in prevision was widespread at all periods, and the evidence
is correspondingly abundant, though poor in quality. The philoso-
phical difficulties which stand in the way of acceptance of this
power to-day were not generally felt in antiquity Its reality was
especially championed by the Stoics, on a priori grounds. Scrying
(usually by boy mediums, in a vessel of water or oil) was widely
practised as a means of discovering the future ; this may be an
importation from the East. There is also one instance of the use of
a device analogous to the " ouija-board ".
Prevision and other manifestations of supernormal knowledge
were often alleged in association with possession. Like most early
peoples, the Greeks attributed to the intrusion of an alien spirit not
only cases of multiple or alternating personality, but also such
conditions as epilepsy, hysteria and many forms of mental and even
of bodily disease—despite occasional rationalist protests, from
Hippocrates to Plotinus. In the early period, so far as we know,
the invading personality was always assumed to be a god or
"daemon". The orthodox Greek view was that the dead were
safely imprisoned in Hades. An exception was made for the unquiet
ghosts of those who had died untimely or by violence, or had failed
of due burial. These are they who prowl in graveyards and haunt
the living. In the best-known ancient story of a local haunt, the
one in Pliny's Letters, the ghost was laid as soon as its bones were
discovered and buried. It was the revolutionary theory of
Poseidonius, that the dead dwell not in an underground Hades but
in the air, that made spiritualism for the first time thinkable.
Tertullian tells us that in his day, while some possessing spirits
called themselves gods, some professed to be the souls of deceased
gladiators and others claimed to be the ghosts of relatives. We are
never told that they gave evidence of identity.
From the notion of possession it is a short step to that of medium-
ship, the exploitation of which was until Roman imperial times
mainly confined to certain oracles. At Delphi the prophetesses
were thrown into trance states in which Apollo was thought to
speak through them ; the method of inducing the trance was a
subject of dispute even in antiquity. Oracles of the dead existed
at certain places, but we do not know whether these involved
mediumship. Magical papyri give recipes for the induction of
220 Journal of Society for Psychical Research march 1932
trance ; but the best ancient descriptions of this state are found in
Iamblichus and Michael Psellus. Iamblichus says that the normal
consciousness is sometimes entirely suppressed, sometimes survives
side by side with the intruding personality. Psellus says that
possession may be recognised " when the subject is deprived of all
activity . . . but is moved and guided by another spirit, which
utters things outside the subject's knowledge and sometimes
predicts future events". Some of Porphyry's " oracles " seem to
be based on actual trance utterances.
For the occurrence of physical phenomena at sittings the chief
witness is Iamblichus. He appears to allege that luminous appari-
tions may be expected, that levitation may occur, and that spirit-
forms may sometimes be observed passing into and out of the
medium. Porphyry thought that these spirit-forms might be
built up by the psychic activity of the medium out of " the material
supplied " and especially out of " matter taken from living bodies."
This comes near to a theory of ectoplasm. For telekinetic pheno-
mena I can find no true parallel, just as I can discover no evidence
that poltergeists were active in antiquity. The nearest approxima-
tion to either type of occurrence is perhaps in the stories told by
Josephus and Philostratus of obsessing daemons who at the special
request of the exorcist demonstrated that they had really left the
body of their victim by overturning previously specified objects in
his neighbourhood.
On the whole the resemblances between the phenomena described
by the Neoplatonists and those recorded as occurring in the seance-
room to-day appear sufficiently numerous and striking to afford
prima facie ground for the assumption that the facts underlying
the two sets of records are of the same order and referable to similar
agencies. And in fact Iamblichus is often claimed as one of the
most important historical witnesses to the truth of spiritualism.
This seems to me rather odd. For with all the parallelisms I have
enumerated there is associated one fundamental difference, viz.
that what the spiritualists attribute to the activity of a discarnate
human mind the Neoplatonists attribute to gods or daemons. We
have, indeed, seen that in spontaneous cases of possession the
" Control " sometimes gave itself out to be the soul of a deceased
person ; it is also true that deliberate evocation of the dead, though
much rarer than the evocation of gods or daemons, was sometimes
undertaken. But of evocation of the dead by means of a medium
there is little evidence. Iamblichus admits that the evil souls of
the earth-bound dead may occasionally intrude upon a seance, and
he is said once to have detected a soi-disant Apollo as being really
the ghost of a gladiator. But his spirit-forms and luminous
phantoms are always those of gods or daemons ;
gods and daemons
March 1932 Private Meetings 221
were the objects of the invocations preserved in the papyri ; and the
authors of Porphyry's oracles, when they describe themselves at all,
invariably describe themselves as gods.
So far as I can see this circumstance puts the spiritualist in a
somewhat awkward dilemma. Is he to regard the Neoplatonist
phenomena as genuine or fraudulent ? If they are fraudulent,
obviously they do not help his case ; and the sceptic may invite
him to explain why in a society so abundantly equipped with
potential mediums and ardent investigators as that of the 4th
century a.d., the genuine spirits failed to make use of these admir-
able opportunities. If, on the other hand, the phenomena are to
be accepted as genuine, he must decide whether they were produced
by non-human spirits or by the dead masquerading as non-human
spirits. If he adopts the latter hypothesis, the sceptic will wish
him to explain why the dead of antiquity entered into so widespread
a conspiracy to hide their identity and deceive the anxious inquirers.
And if, finally, he accepts the agency of non-human spirits, a new
problem presents itself ; how shall he account for the cessation of
this agency to-day, and the substitution for it of an entirely different
agency which nevertheless produces the same effects 1 Once he
admits the notion that any single seance phenomenon is or ever has
been produced by a discarnate non-human agent, he is indeed lost ;
for since we know nothing at all of the nature or powers of such
agents, there can be no theoretical difficulty, once their existence is
admitted, in attributing to them the whole range of phenomena
associated with modern spiritism. Moreover, the Neoplatonic
(and Catholic) " daemonist " hypothesis is, by its very vagueness,
far less open to a priori criticism than is the spiritualist. The
a priori objections to a belief in the continued activity of the dead
are in the judgement of many modern persons, myself included,
very strong objections indeed ; but these considerations do not
apply to the activity of beings who have never experienced death.
It would seem, therefore, that the spiritualist should think twice
before he calls the Neoplatonists as witnesses for the defence.
As for the sceptic, a comparison of ancient daemonism with modern
spiritism will probably suggest to him the conclusion that in periods
of religious decay men will invoke the aid of magic to support by
ocular evidence whatever article of a crumbling creed is nearest to
their heart's desire and least capable of defence upon philosophical
grounds.
A discussion followed, in which the Chairman, Mrs Carpenter,
Mr G. R. S. Mead, Mrs Kingsley, Mr G. W. Lambert, the Rev.
W. S. Irving, Mr J. Hettinger, Lady Barrett, and Mr Besterman
took part.
222 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1932
CORRESPONDENCE.
IS PROOF OF SURVIVAL POSSIBLE ?
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir, —After reading Mr Saltmarsh's interesting paper under the
above title (Proceedings, xl. 105 ff.) it struck me that instead of
attributing a number of theoretical potentialities to normal tele-
pathic action in a general way, it would have been more fruitful to
have analysed and compared some of the most cogent specific
examples of evidence for survival and test them with this touch-
stone.
An example of such test-proof evidence to my mind, if we agree
(as Mr Saltmarsh appears implicitly not to agree) that latency is
hardly likely to endure for six months, is the Bowyer-Bower case
(Proceedings, xxxiii. 167). Captain Bower's apparition was seen
not only at the time of his sudden violent death, but also six months
later (by his mother and again by his fiancee). The details of
development and behaviour are strikingly suggestive of the operation
of an external intelligence. Accepting the facts as truthfully
reported the experience is surely utterly incongruent with any
known case of spontaneous unveridical hallucination experienced
by a person in either good or ill health, and there is no room for
expectation as an explanation.
After studying the subject carefully I find that the evidence for
expectation as a contributory cause of hallucination is extremely
meagre : hallucination, i.e. as distinct from illusion. Most of the
cases reported are illusory, 1
the result of an observed natural
physical movement (e.g. a door opening) or of natural sounds.
Where a phantasm of an expected friend is seen, we cannot be sure
that it is not a spontaneously produced phantasm of the living
person, and the cases reported are rare. In the famous Merton
case the apparition was never seen when expected ; Mrs Leonard
never had her experience of " leaving the body " when she desired
it : communications on expected themes and from expected sources
are the exception at trance sittings. I myself, subject to hypnagogic
hallucinations, never have them when I think of them and await
them. The mental tension of expectation seems thus to be fatal
to psychic experience of certain kinds and is probably the cause of
failure in telepathic experiments. In successful series of experi-
ments confidence (as distinct from hope or expectation) has probably
1
Miss Jephson's phantasmal cheque {Journal, xxvii. 184) was probably
illusory rather than hallucinatory ; i.e. " built upon " some shadow in the
envelope she looked into. From her account one assumes that she looked
into the envelope for it and that the handling was an hallucinatory elaboration.
March 1932 Correspondence 223
been born of experiments unemotionally and off-handedly carried
out (by suitably endowed persons). There is clearly an element
of doubt or irritation in expectation ;
sufficiently " ruffling " may
we not suppose to disturb the " currents " ? Were a medium to
expect trie trance to supervene rather than to be confident or im-
passive about it, failure would probably result. At a sitting with
Mrs Brittain, which she had inconvenienced herself to give me, she
commented distressfully several times on the delay of the trance.
While we were engaged in conversation which interested her she
suddenly said " Ah, that's better !
" and " went off".
Yours, etc.,
Ernest S. Thomas.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—-Mr Saltmarsh {Proceedings, xl. 105 ff.) puts forward many
interesting theories and hypotheses which may or may not negative
the proof of survival. It would, I think, be of interest to many if
he would give his opinion on, and a solution to, the following case
reported in Light for 26 May 1928, p. 244 :
"... Mrs Dowden was the means of obtaining an important fact
that nobody living knew, and it was subsequently verified. This
case was connected with a legal dispute, so an assumed name must
be given.
" About a hundred years ago a man died whom I will call Arthur
Graham, but the year of his death was not known, nor his burial-
place. The whole law case hinged on the date of his death. It was
essential that his tomb should be found ... the police failed to
trace it.
" One interested in the matter came to Mrs Dowden with a
letter that had been written about a hundred years previously by a
woman related to Arthur Graham. The writer of the letter pur-
ported to communicate through Mrs Dowden and stated that the
tomb of Arthur Graham was in a churchyard that had no church
standing m it in a certain district in London, the name of which
was given. Mrs Dowden was not acquainted with this part of
London. The sitter doubted this information, but went in search
of the grave as directed, and found that the information given was
correct. He discovered the tomb of Arthur Graham, exactly as
described m the sitting, and the information was used in the law
case though its source could not be revealed."
It is, of course, easy to postulate that Mrs Dowden or the sitter
might on some occasion which had escaped their recollection have
visited the churchyard in question and there seen the tomb as
subsequently described. Mrs Dowden is, however, quite convinced
tnat she has not, at any time, visited the said churchyard. She
224 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1932
has a horror of them and always avoids them. Neither is she
familiar with the district indicated. The sitter was quite positive,
at the time, that the information given was incorrect and that
no churchyard without a church existed in that part of London.
It seems unlikely, therefore, that he could have conveyed the
required information to Mrs Dowden as the result of a forgotten
visit though, of course, this possibility must be taken into con-
sideration.
Unconscious telepathy from some person unknown would hardly
cover the case. For this would necessitate someone vaguely
wandering through the churchyard who, consciously or uncon-
sciously, noted the name and date on a certain tombstone yet was
unaware of the search for the burial-place. But allowing for this
it seems hardly credible that the information required could have
been conveyed by some person unknown to Mrs Dowden just at
the moment when she was searching the Ouija Board for the
necessary details.
The case mentioned above would seem to dispose of the theory
of latent telepathy. Nothing whatsoever was known to those
concerned as to the locality of the grave of " Arthur Graham " and
the information given through Mrs Dowden related to events of
one hundred years ago. Moreover, the hypothetical communicator
expressed much diffidence in alluding to her association with
" Arthur Graham". She stated that she feared the scandal which
was current in her lifetime in connection with the matter. It might
be possible, however, to postulate some form of hereditary telepathy
as an explanation.
Yours, etc.,
E. B. Gibbes.
[It has unfortunately proved impossible to obtain corroborative
details of the above case. Ed.]
CONTROLS AND PREMONITION.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—With reference to Mr Trethewy's paper in the January
Journal, may I suggest two illustrations which, though they may
have occurred to others, I have not seen in print ? As to the
identities of " Imperator " and others, and their inconsistencies, if
you ring up Harrods, the reply will be " Harrods speaking " : ask
for detail and you will learn "Groceries", and (by a disregard of
rules) further enquiry might disclose the speaker's name. Now
the probability is, that in ten calls, you will be talking to ten
separate individuals—yet all using (till pressed) the same " name ".
March 1932 Correspondence 225
As to premonitions, imagine a trained observer in a balloon
viewing a cross-roads with high blind hedges. He sees two cars
approaching, and by experience calculates that they will probably
collide. Suppose, further, that he " telepaths " to one driver his
situation of danger and causes him to slow down half-consciously.
Having just escaped accident the driver will attribute his delivery
to premonition. In a sense he is right : but no question of pre-
destination arises, since his warning was due wholly to the use of
ordinary intellectual prevision though reaching him abnormally.
Note that authentic " prophecies " rarely reach far ahead.
Yours, etc.,
B. G. Bouwens.
REVIEW.
P. Thomas Bret, Precis de Metapsychique. I. Subconscient et Meta -
psychisme. [II. La Parapsychique.] 8vo, 2 vols. Paris :
J. B. Balliere et Fils, 1927-1930.
In these two volumes and in a third not yet published the author
sets out to give a complete account, theoretical and practical, of
the science of " metapsychics ", anglice, psychical research. He
opens his first volume, after some introductory remarks, with a
discussion on the vocabulary of the subject and a suggested glossary.
For some of his proposals he will find difficulty in winning accep-
tance in this country. For example, Myers's definition of telepathy
as " the communication of impressions of any kind from one mind
to another independently of the recognised channels of sense " is
generally accepted amongst English-speaking writers. Dr Bret
wishes to limit its application to a particular class of phenomena
typified by apparitions of the dying. Telepathic impressions in
general he would describe as " telegnosie " or " metagnosie " ; a
telepathic link between two persons is a " metadesme ".
Dr Bret is open to the general criticism that he overestimates his
readers' powers of assimilating new words ; a list of some two
hundred technical terms, including such unfamiliar combinations
of sound as " endometaplasmie " (transfiguration), " ichnognosie
"
(psychometry), " metallactobare " (supernormal changes of weight),
" metaphtongue " (supernormal sounds), " metarsisme " (levita-
tion), may give rise to needless confusion and alarm ! It is probably
a drawback to any science to be too heavily encumbered with
" jargon " ; it must certainly be a drawback in psychical research,
which derives much of its material from ordinary men and women
and should strive therefore, so far as possible, to be intelligible to
them.
•226 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1932
Dr Bret's general classification and theoretical discussion of
phenomena is based upon his first main division of the field into
" metagnosie ", supernormal perception, and "metergie", super-
normal action. This implies that mental phenomena will be
differently classified according as we assign the responsibility for
them to an agent or a percipient ; for example, telepathy, in Dr
Bret's limited sense, is classified under " metergy ", as a form of
supernormal agency.
The philosophic theory upon which Dr Bret bases his survey
may be summed up as follows :
(1) Individual man consists of two
elements, a normal or natural element, and a metapsychic or
metetheric element, linked to the natural element in some unknown
way, and by its interaction with it, frequent in mediums, rare in
others, causing every kind of supernormal phenomenon. (2) The
metapsychic element of our individuality existed before the natural
element and will continue to exist after it. (3) Force and matter
are two forms of the same thing. The difference between a super-
normal mental image and an ectoplasmic materialisation is one of
degree only.
To survival of death and communication with the dead as
spiritualists and some others understand these terms, Dr Bret will
have little to say, although he admits that certain " metapsychic
remnants " may prolong their post-mortem activity for a time.
If, as some will think, Dr Bret is too ready to cut the knot of
certain psychical problems which do not happen to fit his theory,
as witness his references to Mrs Piper (i. 138, ii. 163), he may seem
on the other hand too favourable to the claims of such phenomena
as he feels himself able to explain, that is, the whole range of super-
normal physical phenomena, including spirit-photography and
full-form materialisations : he instances the pithecanthropus
alleged to have been observed at a sitting with Kluski, and speaks
well of Eglington (sic) and Mirabelli. The tendency to theorise
on insufficiently established data has always been a danger in
psychical research.
But even those to whom many of Dr Bret's conclusions are
unacceptable, may find much to interest them in these two, mainly
theoretical, volumes ; the third volume, still unpublished, which is
to contain a detailed examination of observed phenomena, is likely
to be the most interesting to psychical research.
H. de G. S.
March 1932 Notes on Periodicals 227
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsijehologie,
July 1931.
Dr Bernoulli and Herr E. K. Miiller print a paper entitled " A
new investigation of the properties of teleplasma ", being an
extract from the protocol of an " experimental seance " on 10
February 1931, and a statement of Herr Miiller on his observations.
Several enlarged photographs are appended.
Dr Kindborg of Breslau has a long paper on the Oppau Spuk.
which he investigated personally and in whose genuineness he firmly
believes. The phenomena appear to have consisted exclusively of
rappings (barring a rather doubtful case of " direct " writing).
Professor Ludwig describes a very striking case of an apparition
of a person recently deceased from the reminiscences of Don Bosco,
the founder of the Salesian order (died in 1888, beatified by the
Roman Catholic Church in 1929). The apparition was of a very
unusual nature, was, it seems, perceived by many persons, and bore,
from the religious standpoint, a thoroughly orthodox character,
Ruigi Comollo's voice repeating three times the words :
" Bosco,
Bosco, Bosco, I am saved !
" Prof. Ludwig thinks it however worth
while to discuss at some length (and to discard) the hypothesis of a
practical joke.
The Baroness Margit Veszi-Mantica narrates a case of spon-
taneous phenomena (heavy blows) occurring at Dunavarsany
(Hungary) in 1908. Dr Lipschitz insists on the necessity of " tele-
plasmic nebulae " being submitted to spectral analysis ! He is good
enough to admit incidentally that such an experiment may well
succeed but once in a hundred years (p. 345). Herr Wratnik
narrates a case of a fire of an " occult " nature occurring in the
presence of Hilda Zwieselbauer, for which fire he unhesitatingly
makes an evil (unseen) entity, by the name of Joscht, responsible.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsijehologie, August 1931.
As was to be expected, Stanislawa P., who was thoroughly
exposed at the Institut Metapsychique last year, has found defenders.
In the present number of the Zeitschrift Dr Schwab undertakes to
show that she has genuine mediumistic power : an old story which
we have witnessed ad nauseam since modern spiritualism began.
Herr Hans Schubert describes some thoroughly non-evidential
seances held in a castle reputed to be haunted. Herr Giinther-
Schwerin discusses Spuk and materialisation. Reference is made
to a curious hypothesis put forward by a Professor Danmar according
to which ghosts avail themselves when manifesting in places where
there is no living medium of a particular substance accumulated
there called by Danmar medialum. If the house is repaired, the
228 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1932
" stocks " of this medialum are accidentally destroyed and the
phenomena cease !
Dr Bernoulli has a short paper on a lecture delivered at Zurich on
" Occultism and Conjuring " by the conjurer Ottokar Fischer. No
attempts at duplicating " mediumistic " phenomena were made,
but some of Herr Fischer's statements appear to have been interest-
ing, e.g. when a propos of Eleonora Zugun, he accused of collusion
a lady closely connected with Eleonora. He also stated that the
" phenomena " of Kordon-Veri are due to collusion.
Zeitschrift fit r Parapsyehologie, September 1931.
Dr Mattiesen prints the first instalment of a paper whose purpose
is to put forward a new and hitherto, he thinks, a neglected argument
in favour of the spiritistic hypothesis : the experiences of those who
have felt themselves "out of the body". Altogether 42 cases are
quoted, of which several were published in our Proceedings.
Professor Blacher discusses the " Principles of paraphysical
research ". His standpoint is, as we know, ultra-positive. In
passing he informs us in a footnote that he views Mr Besterman
with intense indignation !
Herr Kiinhaupt, of Berlin, narrates at secondhand an interesting
instance of what may have been a collective visual hallucination,
though it is difficult to feel quite certain that the supposed ghost
may not have been a real person after all.
Herr Haslinger has a few lines on the " front " which, he thinks,
is forming itself in various countries against the " negativism " of a
certain group in the S.P.B. Dr Konstantinides, of Athens, defends
Dr Tanagras's " psychoboulic " theory of premonition against some
ironical remarks in a recent number of the Revue Metapsychique.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsyehologie, October 1931.
The " ectoplasmic " threads which several years ago enjoyed
a transitory notoriety occupy in the present number a prominent
place owing to Mme Ideler, whose performances in this respect are
described by Prof. Blacher. On two photographs we see the medium
" levitating " in this way a small object (hands held on both sides
of the object of course).
From Herr Josef Sell's paper on " Parapsychological emanation
and infra-red rays " it appears that the medium 0. Sch. is again
being experimented with. In a footnote the Editor informs us that
the medium with whom sittings were recently held at Zurich by
Dr Bernoulli " seems " also to have been 0. Sch. The fact is
significant seeing that this gentleman is identical with a medium
once investigated by the late Dr von Schrenck-Notzing and then
dropped because detected in trickery.
March 1932 Notes on Periodicals 229
A judge, Obergerichsrat Ingruber, has a paper (favourable) on
Frau Maria Silbert. In the Kleine Mitteilungen, Herren Haslinger
and D. Walter decline henceforward, in view of some recent ex-
periences, to introduce investigators to that medium. Dr Zenker
narrates various " spontaneous " incidents savouring of Spuh out
of his own and other people's experiences. Among them figures a
guitar alleged to have been moved without contact at a sitting with
" Miss "
(?) [Annie] Eva Fay !
Mr Florizel von Reuter reproduces an interesting account of a
Spuk case alleged to have happened at Dortmund in 1713, which
account appeared in a Dortmund newspaper in 1926 and is stated to
have been taken from a pamphlet by Dr Gerstmann (the chief
witness) printed in 1714. Dr Mattiesen brings to a close his paper
begun in the September number. An extract is quoted at the end
from a letter of Professor Hans Driesch's who says that to him too it
seems beyond doubt that such " excursions " support very strongly
the spiritistic theory. Our late President seems however to have
a slight doubt as to the reality of the alleged facts.
" Superrealism and Parapsychology " is the subject of a paper
by Dr Servadio. In Kleine Mitteilungen Countess Wassilko-Serecki
protests against some assertions made recently at Zurich at a lecture
by Herr Ottokar Fischer, a Vienna conjurer, as to the part played
by her at a sitting of Eleonora Zugun, the Rumanian peasant girl
" medium ".
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, November 1931.
Dr Carl Bruck has a paper entitled " Sensitive or Medium " and
reproducing verbatim statements made in Berlin in 1928 at a sitting
of a " scientific character " by the Rev. Arthur Ford. Dr Bruck
seems fully convinced that Mr Ford possesses truly telepathic and
clairvoyant (or rather clairaudient) powers, as to which opinions
will widely differ.
Dr Simsa, a Prague physician, describes some sittings for physical
phenomena of an extraordinary kind held recently at Prague-
Branik, with a " medium " named Wolf, aged 25. The " pheno-
mena " had been of a spontaneous character at first (stone-throw-
ings, etc.). Dr Simsa admits that the control used at his sittings
" was not sufficient for strictly scientific purposes ", and that " our
experiments were not meant for all sceptics "
(p. 532). These
experiments are to be continued.
Dr Gerda Walther has a paper (first instalment) on spontaneous
physical phenomena in England, dealing chiefly with observations
of the late Mr and Mrs MacKenzie, of the British College for Psychic
Science.
In Kleine Mitteilungen we are informed of the decease at Niirn-
230 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1932
berg, at the age of 60, of Dr Joseph Bohm, whom the Editor styles
" a pioneer in the sphere of parapsychology ". Prof. Blacher informs
us that his sittings with the medium Mine Ideler have been pro-
visionally interrupted owing to the " incompetent, unkollegial and
especially inopportune intervention " of a Herr E. K. It is very
unfortunate that the learned Professor should not express himself
more clearly : as they are, his words lay themselves open, alas, to a
rather sinister interpretation.
Zeitschrift fur Parapsychologie, December 1931.
This number opens with a description by Dr Carl Vogt of some
of Kordon-Veri's card " phenomena " witnessed by him at Graz in
May. The article should be read in conjunction with a note by
Dr Schroder entitled " Occultism and Conjuring " and printed in
the October number of the Zeitschrift fur metapsychische Forschung.
From it it follows that Herr Ottokar Fischer, a Vienna conjurer,
has expressed himself in a manner quite unfavourable to the
genuineness of these performances, though this circumstance has
of course failed to convince Dr Schroder, by whom the Kordon-Veri
card "phenomena" were filmed, it appears. The discussion is
likely to go on.
Dr Simsa brings to a close (provisionally) his paper on the Prague-
Branik sittings and physical " phenomena ". A curious—if
sinister and unfortunate—feature of the latter was the wholesale
killing of some sixty chickens and ducklings, which killing Dr Simsa
" much suspects " to have been of " occult origin " ! It is earnestly
to be hoped that these awful Branik " manifestations " will remain
unique in this respect.
Dr Gerda Walther brings to a close her paper on spontaneous
physical phenomena in England—in which country Iceland is this
time included. Prof. Ludwig Jahn has a paper on various occur-
rences supposed to have been supernormal which took place in 1930
in a village near Cologne. P.-P.-S.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
No. 484.—Vol. XXVII. April 1932
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
ON
WEDNESDAY, 2j April 1932, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"THE RELATION BETWEEN PARAPSYCHICAL
AND PARAPHYSICAL PHENOMENA "
WILL BE READ BY
Mr W. H. SALTER
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.4$ p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
o
•232 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1932
NEW MEMBERS.
{Elected 10 February 1932.)
Van Deren, H. S., Hume-Fogg Building. Nashville. Term., U.S.A.
Vesme, Cesar B. de, 3 Rue Lacretelle Prolongee, Paris. France.
{Elected 24 February 1932.)
De Lara, Madame A. S., 5 Hook Heath. Woking, Surrey.
Grosvenor, The Hon. Mrs Norman, 2 Upper Grosvenor Street,
London. W. 1.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 291st Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 10 February 1932, at 3.15 p.m.,
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart., in the Chair. There were also
present : Mr W. R, Bousfield. K.C.. Lord Charles Hope, The Hon.
Mrs Alfred Lyttleton, G.B.E.. and Mr W. H. Salter; also Mr
Theodore Besterman. Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
.signed as correct.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The 292nd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square.
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 24 February 1932, at 2.45 p.m.,
Sir Oliver Lodge in the Chair. There were also present : Mr
L. S. Fletcher, Lord Charles Hope. Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.,
Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, and Mrs
Henry Sidgwick ; also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and
Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The 293rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 2-1 February 1932. after the Annual
General Meeting, Sir Oliver Lodge in the Chair. There were also
present : Mr L. S. Fletcher. Lord Charles Hope. Sir Lawrence J.
Jones, Bart., Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter,
and Mrs Henry Sidgwick ; also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian
and Editor ; and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
Ai>rti. 1932 Meetings of the Council 233
Mrs Henry Sidgwick was elected President of Honour of the
Society, and Sir Oliver Lodge was elected President, for the year
1932.
Mr W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Secretary : Mr Lancelot S.
Fletcher, Hon. Teasurer ; and Mrs W. H. Salter," Hon. Editor.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication : The Earl of Balfour.
Dr C. D. Broad, Sir Oliver Lodge. Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr J. G.
Piddington, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs Henry Sidgwick. and Mr W.
Whately Smith.
House and Finance Committee : Mr Lancelot S. Fletcher, Miss Ina
Jephson. Mr W. H. Salter. Mrs W. H. Salter, and Mr Sydney C. Scott.
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were elected
for the year 1932 as follows :
Corresponding Members : Professor Henri Bergson, President
Nicholas M. Butler, Dr Max Dessoir, Professor Dr S. Freud, Pro-
fessor Pierre Janet, Dr C. G. Jung, Count Carl von Klinckowstroem,
Maurice Maeterlinck, Professor T. K. Oesterreich, Dr Eugene Osty,
Dr Walter F. Prince. Professor Charles Richet. Dr Rudolph Tischner.
Honorary Associates : Miss H. A. Dallas, Dr Frederik van Eeden,
Kev. A. T. Fryer, David Gow, J. Arthur Hill, Professor J. H. Muir-
head. Professor Charles Sage. Miss F. Melian Stawell. Dr A. Tanagras.
THE CELEBRATION OF THE SOCIETY'S JUBILEE.
It has been decided to hold the celebration of our Jubilee at the end
of June and the beginning of July, this being the time of year most
likely to be convenient to the greatest number of our Members.
The provisional programme is as follows :
29 June, 5 p.m. Presidential Address by Sir Oliver Lodge,
F.R.S., D.Sc.
30 June, 9 p.m. Reception by the President and Council.
4 July, 3 p.m. Address on the History of the Society by Mrs
Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt.. LL.D., President of Honour.
Will all Members kindly make a note of these dates ? Further
particulars will be announced in the May Journal.
Donations for the Society's Jubilee Celebrations.
Mrs F. W. H. Myers - £25 0 0
Anonymous - 20 0 0
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. - 10 0 0
Sir Oliver Lodge 10 0 0
£65 0 0
234 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April Wte
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING.
The Annual General Meeting of the Society was held at 31 Tavistock
Square. London. W.C. 1, on Wednesday. 24 February 1932. at
3.30 p.m.. Sir Oliver Lodge in the Chair.
The following Members were also present : Lady Dickinson
Berry, Mr Theodore Besterman, Mrs Theodore Besterman, Miss
Carruthers. Mr E. J. Dingwall, Mr J. R. K. Duff, Mrs C. B. Fernald,
Mr J. W. Findlater, Mr J. Arthur Findlay. Miss Fleming. Mr L. S.
Fletcher, Mrs Goldney, Lieut. -Col. H. F. Grant-Suttie, Lord Charles
Hope, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mrs Kingsley, Mrs Leaning,
Dr T. W. Mitchell, Miss Isabel Newton, Mr I. B. Nicholl, Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mrs Henry Sidgwick, Mr W. S. Mont-
gomery Smith. Mr A. H. Strawson. Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, Mr
A. W. Trethewy, Mr A. M. D. Turnbull. Mrs Vatcher, Miss Margaret
Wallace, Mr M. West, and Mr S. R. W. Wilson.
The Secretary having read the notice convening the Meeting,
the Chairman observed that as the Report of the Council had
already been printed in the February Journal there was no need
to read it over again. He wished to draw attention to the para-
graph (February Journal, p. 196) beginning " It is possible that the
Society ..."
The Hon. Treasurer, Mr L. S. Fletcher, presented his financial
statement with the remark that it was not a very cheerful occasion
for any one to take on the Hon. Treasurership. The Society had
been suffering from the economic strain, like other similar Societies,
particularly those dependent on voluntary subscriptions. He
referred to the Special Committee appointed towards the end of
1931 to advise as to what should be done to make both ends meet,
and to the economies which had been carried out in consequence.
One of the largest items of expenditure was the printing bill, and the
Council had very reluctantly decided that it would be necessary to
make a cut of £30 under this head. He was glad, however, to be
able to announce that he had received from an anonymous source
an offer of a contribution of the amount of the cut.
Mr Fletcher also referred to the Jubilee celebrations which it was
proposed to hold in the course of the year. Some expenditure
would be necessary on these celebrations, and he had received from
the same source a promise of £20 towards the extra cost which the
Society would incur in regard thereto. He hoped he would not be
going beyond the functions of an Hon. Treasurer in saying that
perhaps other members would like to follow this example.
A discussion followed in which the following Members took part
:
Dr E. J. Dingwall, Mr L. S. Fletcher, Mrs Goldney, Mr W. H. Salter,
Mrs W. H. Salter. Mr A. H. Strawson, and Mr M. West.
April 1932 Long-J) istance Telepathy 235
Mr Findlay moved a vote of thanks to Mr Salter, the retiring
Hon. Treasurer, for his services, and this was carried.
The Chairman announced that there were no candidates for elec-
tion to menbership of the Council other than the six members who
retired by rotation, and he declared those six members re-elected
accordingly. Their names are : Mr W. R. Bousfield. K.C., F.R.S..
Professor E. R. Dodds, Mr L. S. Fletcher, Miss Ina Jephson. Dr
F. C. S. Schiller, and Dr Maurice B. Wright.
Messrs Hartleys. Wilkins. Avery and Flew were re-elected
Auditors for the forthcoming year.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 112th Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday.
24 February 1932, at 5.30 p.m., Sir Oliver Lodge in the Chair.
Mr Theodore Besterman read a paper entitled " The Psychology
of Testimony in Relation to Paraphysical Phenomena," which will
be published in Part 124 of Proceedings.
A discussion followed in which the Chairman, Sir Lawrence Jones,
Miss Macklin, Dr E. J. Dingwall, the Rev. J. W. Hayes, and Mrs
Baggally took part.
AN EXPERIMENT IN LONG-DISTANCE TELEPATHY.
For some years Dr A. Tanagras, an Hon. Associate of the Society
and President of the Hellenic Society for Psychical Research, has
been conducting experiments in long-distance telepathy between
a group in Athens and groups in Paris, Vienna, Berlin, and other
places. In 1931 he was good enough to invite me to co-operate
with him in such an experiment between his group and one to be
formed in London, an invitation I was of course very glad to accept.
The two groups met at the same time, allowing for the difference
in longitude. One group then attempted for five minutes to
transmit an object telepathically to the other group, the process
being repeated after an interval of five minutes. Two objects
having been transmitted in this way the group now acted as per-
cipient, two objects being transmitted in the same way by the other
group. The objects chosen for transmission and the impressions
received were recorded in duplicate by each group, one copy being
put in the post to the other group as soon as possible after each
sitting. In the present experiment each of the objects available for
transmission was numbered, and a set of corresponding numbers
was chosen from at random, the number being then replaced, so that
the whole series was available each time.
In these experiments conducted by Dr Tanagras there had
236 Journal of Society for Psycltical Research Apbil1932
hitherto been no limit to the range of objects chosen for transmission.
This method is open to various objections, amongst them the
difficulty of evaluating the results. On the other hand, I was
anxious to avoid going to the other extreme and using numbers or
playing-cards. I therefore suggested, as providing a means of
making the results susceptible to statistical evaluation without
losing the emotional element, that twenty subjects of quasi-universal
appeal be chosen and that one of these twenty be transmitted each
time by each group. To this Dr Tanagras agreed, and I therefore
put together a set of postcards representing the following subjects :
the Crucifixion, the Virgin and Child, the Prince of Wales, Julius
Caesar, Napoleon, Nefert-iti, a mummy, an elephant, a horse, snakes,
a butterfly, the Houses of Parliament (London), St Paul's Cathedral,
an aeroplane, a railway engine and train, a steamer, a plate, a vase,
and a chair, together, for control purposes, with a blank card. A
duplicate set was sent to Dr Tanagras. Some of the cards were in
colours, with a view to testing their relative efficacy in the event of
a successful experiment.
Each group sat twelve times, between 5 November 1931 and
11 February 1932. The London group consisted of thirteen sitters
and the Athens group of twenty-five sitters, a total of thirty-eight.
The members of the London group put in 93 attendances and those
of the Athens group 118 attendances, a total of 211. The number
of guesses recorded was 226 by the London group and 448 by the
Athens group (the members of which usually made several attempts
for each object), a total of 674 guesses. The probability of obtaining
a hit by chance alone being one in twenty, the successes obtained by
the London group should have numbered 11.3, by the Athens group
22.4, or 33.7 in all. The actual hits obtained, on the most liberal
estimate, were respectively 12, 17, and 29.
Thus the experiment unfortunately failed to produce any direct
evidence of telepathy, and an analysis for deferred impressions was
equally unsuccessful. Th. B.
CORRESPONDENCE.
Methods in Experimental Telepathy.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir. —The courteous remarks of M. Warcollier which appeared in
the February number of the Journal and Prof. Gardner Murphy's
very interesting contribution to the same issue, call for some reply
from me. I will first deal with M. Warcollier's letter. The choice of
the " cobra " illustration I admit was an unfortunate one, though
when I picked it out I was perfectly aware that the percipient had,
April 1932 Correspondence 237
in addition to getting an impression of exotic birds and climbing
plants, actually sensed a reptile. The example was not intended as
a specific case for criticism but was merely cited as an illustration of
the kind of thing I had in mind when I said that capital letters, etc.,
do " not permit of the experimenters claiming equivocal successes
on the score that an associated idea has emerged in the mind of the
percipient."
I still maintain, however, that when one experiments with '"
free
"
material a very wide connotation can be given to the word " success."
For instance, on 28 March 1926 one of Warcollier's agents con-
centrated on a picture of one of H. G. Wells's Martians showing a
pair of big eyes in an enormous head, and a bunch of tentacles
(Revue Metapsychique [1927], p. 359). The percipient draws a
fountain with four jets and thinks of a diver. M. Warcollier inter-
prets the four jets of the fountain as a successful attempt at the
tentacles, and remarks that there is an extraordinary resemblance
between the head of the Martian and the head of a diver in his
helmet. But is this really good enough ? Personally it leaves me
unconvinced. If for instance the percipient had drawn an onion
with its roots hanging down I should have been much more im-
pressed. I have recently been looking through all Warcollier's
published sketches and I do not think I have found a single pair of
drawings of which I could say with any conviction, " Here is a
coincidence so exact in its numerous details that it is absolutely
beyond chance." At most I have been able to say, " This is
suggestive," or " This is interesting."
I do not quite see the point of M. Warcollier's illustration of the
man firing at a target. If, for example, it was true that in a long
series one tires, so that the first two or three shots were much better
than the rest, a statistical series would, if carried out for a sufficient
number of days, infallibly demonstrate the superiority of the early
shots. What the marksman himself thinks as the result of a single
trial is of no importance.
I am quite ready to agree with Prof. Murphy that Warcollier's
experiments are voluminous, but I can scarcely admit that the
published successes are voluminous. Let us take, for instance, one
of M. Warcollier's longest reports, that of the work of his group in
the year 1925 (see Institut Metapsychique, Les Conferences en 1926,
pp. 36-51). Including four successes which are described in the
Revue Metapsychique (1927) ,
pp. 359, 362 and 369, and the American
experiments for 1925, we have in all about 36 published successes
for the year 1925. There may, of course, have been others, but
these are all that M. Warcollier has thought fit to describe. These
successes are shared among at least nine percipients. It is true,
however, as Prof. Murphy states, that one or two of the percipients
238 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1932
(in this case M. Warcollier himself and M. Du.) seem to get an undue
share of the successes. But what the true interpretation of this fact
may be I am not clear. It might conceivably be explained on the
supposition that these two percipients were more active than the
rest of the group and managed to put in a bigger average of experi-
ments per evening. It might even be because they attended the
weekly sittings more regidarly than the others. M. Warcollier
simply does not provide us with the information we require in
order to form a conclusion. In this report, as in many others, we
are not even told who was present on any particular evening. We
are not told the number of experiments done by each person. For
the most part we are not even given the exact times at which the
agents concentrated on their objects or the intervals between the
recording of the successful impression and the time at which the
agent concentrated.
Again, my own statistical experiments with large groups have
definitely convinced me that in guessing at free material percipients
who on an average make 3-4 shots per experiment do at the end of
20 or 25 experiments score an appreciably larger number of successful
hits than those who average only 1-2 shots per experiment. In my
experiments with the Warcollier group a single person would some-
times record as many as five distinct drawings in his attempts to
guess the object shown. These are factors which have to be taken
into account before one can decide that the uneven distribution
of Warcollier's successes is due to superior telepathic power on the
part of certain percipients.
Prof. Murphy has asked for references to experiments in which
Warcollier's percipients have failed with playing-cards, numbers,
capital letters, etc. There are references to experiments with
playing-cards in Warcollier's book La Telepathic Experimental
(1921). Though M. Warcollier appears to think that some of these
experiments or card games were successful, on the evidence pre-
sented I can only conclude that they were probably negative. For
instance, on p. 174, he mentions an experiment with playing-cards
in which the chance of success was 1 in 13. In a series of 260 trials
he tells us that 24 successes were obtained, which he interprets as
a positive deviation of 20% from the chance expectation (20).
But this positive deviation (4) is even less than the standard
deviation (4.3) and can signify absolutely nothing. It is true that
M. Warcollier goes on to say that he has alivays obtained a positive
deviation with this game, but what is the precise meaning to be
attached here to the terms " always " ? It is of course normally
an even chance whether the deviation from the expected number is
positive or negative, and no one ought to be excessively surprised
if a run of five or six positive deviations should occur from time to
jVpril 1932 Correspondence 239
time. For instance, if one does the game five times the chance
expectation that all five trials will give positive deviations is 1 in 2 5
or 1 in 32, for six games 1 in 26
. and so on.
A series of seven or eight experiments with letters of the alphabet
carried out at a distance of some hundred miles, in which M. de
Sainville was agent and M. Warcollier the percipient, is described
in the Institut's Conferences en 1928. pp. 298-302. Not one of these
eight letters was guessed correctly, though it is to be noted that a
considerable number of partial successes are claimed with free
material in this same series.
As regards experiments with numbers I do not find very many
in M. Warcollier's published work, but a certain number of experi-
ments with three-figure numbers were undertaken by Warcollier's
percipients in connection with my own group, though without
success.
Prof. Murphy seems to be begging the question when in the
•concluding paragraph of his letter he says that he does not think
" that the failure of other experimenters to obtain results which
are supernormal when using methods similar to those of M. War-
collier can be regarded as weighty unless it can be established that
the percipients used in the two series of experiments are equally
endowed." If, for instance, I were to estimate the endowment of
Warcollier's percipients on the basis of their two years' work with my
own group I should be compelled to conclude that this endowment
was very slight indeed. If on the other hand I were to judge the
endowment of my own group of 600 by the letters in which they
recorded their previous spontaneous experiences, I should be
tempted to believe that at least a hundred of them constituted the
psychic cream of the country.
In Les Conferences en 1926, p. 37, M. Warcollier tells us how he
formed his group. He made an appeal to a selected public of about
500 persons in the year 1922. From these 500 he obtained 50
accounts of supernormal experiences. Twenty of these fifty persons
agreed to take part in regular experiments.
Now all this seems very remarkable when compared with my own
experience. Through a broadcast appeal I obtained not 20 but
350 cases of people who claimed to have had supernormal experiences
and who agreed to take part in regular experiments. Yet it seems
that with eighteen times as many " psychics
"'
I was unable to find
a single one who was really able to convince me in the subsequent
tests that he or she possessed genuine telepathic powers. But out
of a small group of twenty Warcollier seems to have been able to
find at least six or seven genuine percipients ! Frankly. I am
sceptical, and the absence of any real control experiments and of
adequate accounts of experimental details makes me search for the
240 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1932
secret of Warcollier's coincidences in other possible factors than
the operation of telepathy. Of M. Warcollier's honesty of purpose
and sincerity there can be no question, and no one who has had the
privilege of knowing him personally could ever doubt it. Nor do
I think it possible for anyone to prove that the best individual
coincidences that he cites are not examples of telepathy. At the
same time I believe that the factor of selection of favourable cases-
is far more important than Prof. Murphy believes it to be. My own
work has convinced me that with free material if one goes on long-
enough one does now and then note a remarkable success and
occasionally an impression is recorded by some percipient, which,
while it does not fit the actual objects gazed on by the agents, would
yet count as a notable success if it had only been recorded a fortnight
earlier or a fortnight later. And is it really necessary to possess the
unlimited time and untiring energy of typewriting monkeys in
order to pile up the few hundred coincidences that M. Warcollier
has recorded in his published work since 1921 ? I cannot help
thinking that Prof. Murphy has rather exaggerated the actual
amount of success obtained by Warcollier.
But I freely admit that the case puzzles me. I feel that if I
could have been present at a few of the actual meetings of this
group and studied the exact procedure I could soon make up my
mind as to the part played by coincidence, psychic parallelism,
multiple guesses, verbal amplification of impressions after drawings
have been compared (if this ever happens), etc. But under the
circumstances, while agreeing with Prof. Murphy that Warcollier
has a real case that cannot be demolished offhand, however much his
methods of presenting his reports may be criticised, I feel unable
to come to any definite conclusion.
Prof. Murphy raises one other interesting point with regard to
his own method of calculating coincidences (p. 210). In the case
where a number of different objects are used in succession, even if
they differ from one another as much as teapots and lions, is it
really safe to assume that the operations of guessing at two classes
of objects in succession are independent events ? Let us assume
for example that the percipients are told that the first object is one
of ten animals whose names are given and that the second object is
one of ten flowers whose names are also given. In order to find a
chance expectation of a percipient getting both objects right I doubt
very much if it would be correct merely to find the empirical pro-
babilities of each separately and combine them by multiplication.
For by doing so one is assuming that a person who thinks of a lion
say for his first guess is as likely to guess any particular one of the
ten flowers as a person whose first guess was a sheep. Now it may
easily be that those who guess lions will tend to choose as their
April 1932 Correspondence
second guess a yellow flower and those who guess sheep a white
flower. Hence serious errors might arise—especially with large
numbers of percipients—if one merely multiplied the empirical
probability factors obtained from each experiment separately. And
this may be true to a greater or less degree of all classes of objects.
In the B.B.C. experiment for instance, there were two playing-
cards thought of by the agents. The first card resulted in about
56% of red guesses while in the second experiment the percentage
of red guesses fell to 53%. This fluctuation in the popularity of
red is far too great to be a mere chance variation. The first card
shown was actually a black card and the second a red one. and here
it would lead to serious error if one said that the probable number
of people who ought to get the colour of both cards correct is
N x -44 x -53, where N is the number of percipients (supposed the
same in both experiments).
Yours, etc.,
8. Gr. SOAL.
Is Proof of Survival Possible ?
To the Editor o/ The Journal.
Sir, —May I trespass on your space to reply briefly to the points
raised in the two interesting letters appearing in your last issue ?
Mr Thomas thinks that it would have been more fruitful to have
analysed concrete cases. I agree : in fact. I intended to do so but
found that any adequate analysis would have expanded the paper to
an inordinate length.
The question of the limit to be assigned to the duration of latency
is a peculiarly difficult one : we have so little data to go upon. If
the deferred impression be a centrally originated hallucination,
then exteriorisation of a subconscious memory might account for it
and latency might extend almost indefinitely. If, on the other hand,
the hallucination is provoked by some external cause, it is difficult
to see how it comes to be deferred at all. Does the provoking cause
remain in operation until it produces its effect—does it, as it were,
continue knocking at the door until it is opened 1 Or if the effect
on the recipient be produced immediately and passage from the
subliminal to the supraliminal be deferred, where, if not in the
subconscious memory, is the impressed stored ? This seems to me
to be another example of the difficulty which is so often encountered
in psychical research of estimating the probability of various
alternatives, and confirms me in the opinion that acceptance
of any hypothesis is. in most cases, governed by individual idio-
syncrasy.
242 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1932
Concerning expectation as a contributory cause of hallucination.
I agree that by itself expectation may prove a hindrance rather
than a help, but if the subject be in a highly suggestible state I
think that vivid expectation may provoke hallucination indirectly
by means of auto-suggestion.
Miss Gibbes is good enough to ask my opinion on a case reported
in Light. I agree that it is extremely unlikely that Mrs Dowden
should have preserved a subconscious knowledge of the location
of the tomb derived from unconscious observation on the spot. It
is, of course, possible that the sitter might have possessed the
knowledge normally and forgotten that he had done so. There
is, however, no evidence to show that this was the case, and it is a
perfectly gratuitous supposition.
I think also that unconscious telepathy from some unknown
person is, though theoretically possible, extremely unlikely, as the
requisite linkage is so very complex and indirect. The hypothesis
of clairvoyance seems even less acceptable : we can hardly suppose
that Mrs Dowden would clairvoyantly search all the graveyards in
London for a particular tomb.
Presumably the writer of the letter handed to Mrs Dowden was
aware at some time during her lifetime of the place where Arthur
Graham was buried, though there is no information on this point.
However, assuming this, the supposition would be that, by means
of the letter, the mind of the medium made contact with the surviv-
ing consciousness of the writer and derived the information there-
from. The part played by the letter is very mysterious. Personally
I cannot accept as plausible the theory that an inanimate object
sends out an emanation or radiation which gives information con-
cerning persons who owned, handled or otherwise were connected
with it in the past. If one postulates radiation some account must
be given of its nature. Are the rays a stream of particles ? If so
what are these particles ? Or are they waves, and if so in what
medium and of what wavelength ? And anyhow, how can an
emanation or radiation convey information except by means of a
code of symbols, such as Morse ? And finally, can we suppose that
this activity can continue for a hundred years as in this case ? I
suggested in my report on the Warren Elliott sittings a possible
explanation based on a modification of the temporal conditions
governing the subconscious mind of the medium. I must leave it
to others to judge whether it is plausible and, if so, whether it is
applicable to this case ;
personally I am inclined to think that the
hundred years involved stretched the theory almost too far.
As the result of these considerations I am disposed to the opinion
that this case, if the evidence is otherwise satisfactory, which, as I
gather from the Editor's note, appears somewhat doubtful, gives
April 11)32 Correspondence 243
considerable support to the spiritistic hypothesis. There are
alternatives but, to my mind, they are less plausible, though others
may assess the probabilities differently. Yours, etc.,
H. F. Saltmarsh.
REVIEWS.
Frederick H. Haines, Nothing but the. Truth : the Confessions of a
Medium. 8vo, pp. 322. Watford : The Pure Thought Press,
1931. Price 7s.^d. net.
Joseph F. Snipes, Fifty Years in Psychic Research : a Remarkable
Record of Phenomenal Facts. 4to, pp. 483. Boston : Chappie
Publishing Company, 1927. Price $4.
In his early days Mr Haines was a rationalist ; in middle life he
went to church, but without enthusiasm ; then he became interested
in spiritualism, had good sittings with several well-known London
mediums, developed automatic writing and trance, and reached
full conviction that he received messages from his son who was
killed in the war, also from friends and from high spirits who lived
on earth long ago. The investigations were begun in a spirit of
scepticism, and were conducted carefully ; Mr Haines took a
stenographer, and had full notes taken ; he was careful not to give
away information, and he studied the records in critical fashion,
wishful only to get at the truth. The results seem to contain much
that was supernormal, and some of them can hardly be accounted
for by telepathy from the sitter.
In the exercise of his own psychic powers, a prominent feature
was the finding of lost objects by the help of impressions or auto-
matic writing ; and one at least of these seems to go beyond sub-
liminal perception and memory, being apparently a case of true
clairvoyance if we are to avoid the supposition of help from dis-
carnate minds. As to the communicators who are of remote time,
there can be no evidence of identity and the reader can form his
own opinion ;
they and their teachings are of the Vale Owen kind,
and edification rather than evidence is their aim. The book is
clearly an honest record ; the writer is a retired business man and
would not claim that his book is a literary production of high order
—there are many slips in grammar and the like—but he does give
the impression of having tried to give an exact account of his
experiences. And his interpretation of those experiences is reason-
able enough. It is to be noted that he is aware of the various
alternative hypotheses, and he maintains a critical attitude, not
only to the sceptical explanations but also to some of the activities-
of spiritualism. The book has value as a psychological study of a
medium's mind from within.
244 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1932
Mr Snipes's book is of the same character, but is more discursive
and less evidential. The author has visited many mediums, and
he and his wife developed psychic powers. The evidence, such as
it is, is not given in scientific fashion, and large areas of the book
are occupied with ostensible communications from Henry Ward
Beecher. Horace Greeley, Thomas Paine, and other famous people :
there is much repetition, and the matter is mainly of a sermonising
but unimpressive character. Mr Snipes says he has seen table
levitations without contact, and received what seemed to him
evidential slate-writing with Slade ; but the accounts are casual
and chatty, not full notes made at the time. J. A. H.
J. Arthur Findlay, On the Edge of the Etherie. 8vo, pp. 177.
London : Eider and Co., 1931. Price 3s. 6d. net.
The etherie theory of the survival of human personality is so
widely held that a book giving fully and clearly what that theory
implies is sure to be of interest to our members. In 1924 Mr
Findlay, a member of our Society, published a small book containing
a summary of his experiences with the Glasgow medium, John C.
Sloan, with an introduction by Sir William Barrett : the present
book contains a much fuller report of Mr Findlay's sittings with
that medium. A large part of the book is devoted to explanations
given through the medium of the etherie theory of survival and of
the modus operandi of communication, together with comments by
Mr Findlay in which he claims that this theory is in harmony with
recent discoveries in physics. Mr Findlay himself emphasizes the
fact that the theories of the physicists are continually changing,
and it is to be hoped that the physicists will not be so inconsiderate
as to produce new theories which will not harmonise with mediumis-
tic explanations. This part of the book, although of considerable
interest, can hardly be considered evidential.
In chapters VII, VIII and IX, however, Mr Findlay gives an
account of several incidents which he claims as not only super-
normal, but as incapable of explanation by any hypothesis except
that of survival. Unfortunately, however, the cases are not
reported in conformity with the standards followed by our Society.
For instance, the striking case of " Eric Saunders " (the first of the
evidential cases quoted by Mr Findlay) suffers from the fact that
we are not given firsthand statements from Mr Findlay's brother,
to whom the communication was given, nor from the man through
whom the correctness of the communication was subsequently
verified. It cannot be too often impressed on writers of books on
psychical research that good cases gain enormously by being re-
corded in the way that cases are recorded in our Proceedings and
Journal. W. H. Salter.
April li)32 Reviews 245
Caesar de Vesme, A History of Experimental Spiritualism. Vol. i.
Primitive Man. Translated by Stanley de Brath. [Vol. ii,
Peoples of Antiquity. Translated by Fred Rothwell]. 8vo,
2 vols. London : Rider and Co., 1931. Price 10s. 6d. net
each volume.
A comprehensive work treating of the supernormal beliefs of
mankind in all ages and parts of the world was badly needed. It
could only be attempted as the result of a lifetime of study devoted
to the subject. This M. de Vesme has given it. and the progress of
the work will be watched with sympathetic interest.
The French title of the book is Histoire du Spiritualisme experi-
mental, and the first volume appeared in 1928. The two volumes
before us are a translation of about two-thirds of the first French
volume. It will thus be seen that, when completed, the work will
be on a very large scale, and it should occupy an important place in
the literature of psychical research. In a note to the English
edition the author explains that he is using " Spiritualism " in its
most extended sense, and that " experimental " is to be given a
wider meaning than it usually bears in English, and should be taken
as including the results of observation as well as experiment.
The principal thesis of the first volume is that belief in spirits,
and religious ideas generally, did not originate, as supposed by
anthropologists, in the misinterpretation of natural (i.e.
'*
normal ")
phenomena, but that they are based on the observation of super-
normal phenomena, and on correct inferences drawn therefrom.
This interesting hypothesis is supported by a wealth of instances,
the Journal and Proceedings of the S.P.R. being quoted with
gratifying frequency, and by ingenious arguments. Unfortunately
not all the authorities quoted are of the highest standing.
In the second volume M. de Vesme modestly disclaims any
attempt to produce an " erudite book, and it would of course have
been impossible to explain in detail the beliefs of persons belonging to
so many civilisations, from Egypt to Peru, without making the book
unwieldy. M. de Vesme is however to be congratulated on having
in both volumes covered so much ground, and on having brought
together so much material of interest to the student of our subject.
The translation of the second volume leaves a good deal to be
desired, and there are numerous mistakes in names and in classical
words : e.g. the Egyptologist " Flinders,"' Epiphanus, Naupakton,
neknia (several times), Serapeums. An important passage of the
Odyssey (xi. 219-222) is translated (p. 138) in such a way as to be
barely recognisable. It is to be hoped that blemishes of this kind
will be avoided in the translations of the rest of the work, for the
successful completion of which we offer M. de Vesme our best
wishes. W. H. S.
246 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1932
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Zeitsch rift fur metapsychische Forschung, June and July 1931.
Count Rehbinder brings to a close his study of wills-o'-the-wisp.
He adduces interesting and somewhat puzzling incidents from his
own experience. Baron Dr von Winterstein discusses " Chance
coincidence and destiny ". Dr Kuchynka has a paper on autoscopy
(the seeing of oneself), a " phenomenon " which does not seem to-
me to be of peculiar interest, so far as there is nothing in it to
distinguish it from a purely subjective hallucination. In one of
the incidents described in the present paper there is however some
very slight evidence that such may not have been altogether the
case.
Professor Blacher has a paper on apports observed at sit-
tings with various mediums, and Herr M. G. Bruckner writes
enthusiastically on the " wonders " of Frau Maria Silbert. Chiefly
d propos of the same medium Dr Haslinger vehemently attacks
Mr Besterman and is also hard on Mr Salter and the present
supposed " negative " tendencies of the S.P.R. as a whole. It is
curious to find in Dr Haslinger's paper the names of two learned
Jesuits said to champion the genuineness of Frau Silbert's
phenomena ".
Archiv zur Kldrung der Wunschelrutenfrage, July 1931.
This review is to be the organ of the Verband zur Klarung der
Wunschelrutenfrage. our Corresponding Member Count von
Klinckowstroem, Baron Rudolph von Maltzahn. and Herr Erwin
Marquardt being the Editors. It is of a strictly scientific character,,
and the introduction to this first number is excellent. We wish
(unfortunately rather belatedly) the Archiv every success.
Monistische Monatshefte. August 1931.
Count Klinckowstroem discusses " Stage clairvoyants and
pseudo-telepaths ". The tendency of the essay is thoroughly
negative. It should be read in connection with the same writer's
article in the Berliner Tageblatt, 1931, no. 444, which deals with
Herr Kordon-Veri's card " experiments ". Count Klinckowstroem
tells us, by the way, that the latter gentleman failed egregiously in
1930, in Vienna, when dealing with two experts in conjuring (Herren
Ottokar Fischer and Martin Kirschen).
P.-P.-S.
ERRATUM.
Journal xxvii. 201. in the footnote to the Accounts, for
" £108 19s. 2d." read " £101 5s. 5d."
No. 485 —Vol. XXVII. May 1932
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, 25 May 1932, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"THE RESULTS OF RECENT CARD-
EXPERIMENTS "
WILL BE READ BY
Miss INA JEPHSON
[P T.O.]
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
p
JUBILEE CELEBRATIONS
1882-1932
Revised Programme
WEDNESDAY, 29 JUNE 1932, 5 p.m.
CONWAY HALL
Presidential Address by Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
THURSDAY, 30 JUNE, 9 p.m.
LANGHAM HOTEL
Reception by the President and Council to Members
and Associates
FRIDAY, 1 JULY, 3 p.m.
CONWAY HALL
Address on the History of the Society by Mrs Henry
Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D., President of Honour
MONDAY, 4 JULY, 8.30 p.m.
CONWAY HALL
(TO BE ANNOUNCED LATER)
Members and Associates are asked kindly to make a note of these dates.
Final particulars zuill be announced in due course.
An invitation to the Reception is enclosed.
Mat 1932 Meeting of the Council 249
NEW MEMBERS.
Duckworth, Mrs Arthur, 43 Catherine Street, London, S.W. 1.
Manuel, Alexander G., M.D., 10 West 58th Street, New York, U.S.A.
Maude, Mrs A., 14 Lancaster Gate, London, W. 2.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 294th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 30 March 1932. at 3.15 p.m., Mr
W. E. Bousfield, K.C., in the Chair. There were also present :
Lord Charles Hope. Miss Ina Jephson. Mr G. W. Lambert. The Hon.
Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter,
and Mr S. G. Soal : also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and
Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
The Report of the Annual General Meeting was read and accepted.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
Mr S. G. Soal was appointed an elected member of Council to fill
the vacancy caused by the resignation of Dr V. J. Woolley.
The following were co-opted as Members of Council for the year
1932-1933 : Dr C. D. Broad, Dr William Brown, Mr J. Arthur Hill,
Lord Charles Hope, Professor Julian Huxley. The Hon. Mrs Alfred
Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr H. F. Saltmarsh, and Mr W. Whately Smith.
Dr Th. Wereide, of Oslo, was elected an Hon. Associate for the
year 1932-1933.
The Monthly Accounts for January and February 1932 were pre-
sented and taken as read.
A SITTING WITH BERT REESE.
By Dr Walter Franklin Prince.
It may be of interest for me to relate the story of my only meeting
with Bert Reese (sometimes spelled Ries). This man, as most
persons interested in psychic research know, attained a very high
reputation for his extraordinary performances which had the appear-
ance of telepathy, when they were not supposed to be of the nature
of messages from the dead, a theory which he sometimes encouraged.
Most readers will remember the testimonies of more or less prominent
people on the continent of Europe and elsewhere regarding him, and
I need not refer to these. I myself was told, before I saw him,
250 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1932
stories of his marvellous achievements, by at least twenty persons of
general good sense, including successful merchants and lawyers, and
even a judge of a high court. As these persons told the story, there
was no possible way to explain the feats performed, according to any
normal process. More than one man said to me, when I ventured to
express the possibility of doubt, " Then I must be either a liar or a
fool. I am telling you what I saw with my own eyes ". But, as the
late Dr Morton Prince and I, shortly before his death, with the rela-
tion in turn of amusing examples, agreed, the eyes are, in certain
situations, very uncertain and deceptive instruments.
Every one of these witnesses substantially stated as follows, before
proceeding to further detail :
" He told me what was on folded slips
of paper before he ever touched them ". If that were so ; that is to
say, if the slips remained folded and were not touched by Reese, and
yet he was able to tell what was upon them or to make perfectly
relevant replies to what was on them, there seems to be no escape
from the conclusion that what he did was of supernormal
character.
I am making, of course, no new revelation. Several persons have
given more or less of an account of the way that Reese accomplished
his successes, a way capable of a number of variations. But it may
be of interest, nevertheless, for me to tell how he did it when he gave
me a sitting. I do not, of course, make any point-blank denial that
Reese ever had any telepathic results, and I say nothing of those
cases where his procedure was different than it was with me, although
I doubt that any variation of his procedure was less tricky than the
one in my case. I wrote out my report, which has never been pub-
lished, almost immediately after Reese had gone. That report re-
mains in the files of the Society which I was then serving, so that I
cannot tell the exact date, but it was a year or two before Reese's
death. What I am to say is very clear in my memory. I shall show
the high probability that every one of the men who told me their
stories and who had witnessed a similar procedure (and it was almost
precisely similar in most cases), when he said, " He answered what
was on my folded slips before he ever touched them ", although of
undoubted honesty, was mistaken. I shall show also the very psy-
chological groove, so to speak, down which he slipped into error.
Having heard so many stories with their categorical affirmations,
I was naturally anxious to meet Reese. A mutual friend, who had
seen him perform many times and who believed in him thoroughly,
was also anxious that I should meet him. He used his influence with
Reese, who one day unexpectedly appeared at my office, and told
me that he was willing to demonstrate at that time.
I was seated at a roll-top desk in a well- lighted room, and rather
expected that he would sit down by me there, but he wandered into
May 1932 A Sitting with Bert Reese 251
an adjoining room and suggested that instead we sit at a table in
that room. He did not wish to sit on the same side of a piece of
furniture with me, as he would be compelled to do at the desk, for so
located he could not perform his manipulations unperceived.
As I readily assented, he asked for a sheet of paper and was given
it. He proceeded, apparently, to tear this piece of paper into five
fragments of about the same size. Although on the look-out, I did
not see him conceal any fragment, but directly after the sitting was
over and he had gone, I did what so many failed to do : fitted the
five pieces together, and. as I expected, found that another was
needed to make up the entire sheet. A piece having been ab-
stracted and concealed must, logically, be intended to play an im-
portant part in what was to follow.
Reese asked me to write some question or sentiment on the pieces
of paper, directed to five persons, " the most of them passed on ",
and to address the persons by name. He instructed me then to fold
the slips separately several times.
We went into the room containing the table, and he asked if two
ladies present could also sit, and I assented. Thereupon I sat at the
right extremity of the long side of the table, Reese directly opposite
me, and the two ladies, whom we will designate as Miss L. and Miss
M., at the end between us.
It should be here stated that Reese, at that time a very old man
but with all his uncanny cleverness undiminished, had a curious
voice and a curious style of conversation. His articulation was in-
distinct, so that all three of us were more disposed to look at his face
than we otherwise would have done, and the same tendency to look
at his face was encouraged by his drawling volubility, intermitting
now and then for a few moments, but ever beginning anew, and
skipping from one subject to another, sometimes making an affirma-
tion, sometimes indulging in a remark of quiet humour, and at times
asking a question. I tried to resist this beguiling tendency to look
away from the table to his face, but was afterwards obliged to ac-
knowledge my lapses.
As I held the five slips of paper (let me hereinafter call them by the
old term " billet ") Reese asked me if I knew which message or
question of mine was located on which billet. Before we really
settled down to business, and while he was chatting, several times
he broke off to ask this question again of me, and every time 1
answered truthfully that I did not. What difference did it make
whether I knew or not, on which billet any particular writing of mine
was to be found ? This, that if I did know, and observed that he
got back a billet from a person to whom he apparently had not
given it, I should know that something was rotten in Denmark.
Presently Reese said, " Give Miss M. a billet ". I instantly passed
252 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1932
one to her, so that my movement and his, as his arm was partly
stretched across the table and pointed at her, were almost simul-
taneous. His pointing finger came perhaps one foot from the billet
as Miss M. received it. First impression upon the spectator's mind
—
he did not touch the billet.
Reese chatted a bit more, then said, " Now give Miss L. one ", and
precisely the same procedure followed, though this time he did not
have to extend his arm as he pointed, since Miss L. was next to him.
Impression deepened—he did not touch the paper.
A little more chatting, and he directed that Miss M. receive
another billet, and pointed as before, and probably his finger came
a little nearer it. Again the psychological impression is deepened,
until it becomes a groove—he did not touch the paper. Then Reese
said, " Keep the other two yourself ", and told an interesting story,
which got us to smiling. The story finished, he casually and quietly
added, " No, I think we'll let Miss L. have another one ". I ex-
tended my hand toward Miss L. with the folded paper in it, and this
time Reese intercepted the paper, when his hand was probably not
more than six inches from that of Miss L. Here is where the twenty
witnesses who had told me their stories fell down. Either, through
the effect of the three instances where Reese did not touch the billet,
the witnesses failed to observe that he did touch it in the fourth case,
or having casually observed it, its very naturalness prevented its
having any abiding place in the memory.
The fourth billet was taken by Reese, and the back of his hand
and his curved fingers so held that the action of his thumb was in-
visible to any of the three witnesses. He was so fiendishly clever
through long practice as to be able, in the moment when the billet
was invisible, to shove his abstracted and folded slip of paper out
beyond the tip of his fingers and to put it in Miss L's hand without
the switch being observed.
I should have earlier said that both ladies were directed where to
hold the billets, so that each had one in each hand. It was necessary
for Reese to keep trace of the locations of the papers in order not to
make any mistake in the subsequent steps of his performance.
He now had, therefore, one of my billets, while Miss L. held
another in one hand and a dummy in the other. Reese waited a
little while and went through the business of having some kind of a
mediumistic spasm, put on the appearance of receiving inspiration,
and drew a sheet of paper which was on the table toward him. Upon
this sheet of paper, drawn close to his edge of the table, he proceeded
with his right hand alone to make queer characters resembling
Hebrew. This device was intended to, and did enchain our attention.
1 confess with shame that I thoroughly supposed that his message
was being set down in that form, which he would afterwards trans-
Mat 1932 A Sitting with Bert Reese 253
late. While we were looking at the making of the characters, his
eyes were naturally downcast—it would have been impossible to see
whether he was looking at the paper or beneath the edge of the table,
which he really was—while his left hand underneath the rim of the
table unfolded my billet and he read it. (If I had had another
sitting, I would have been on the look-out for this hieroglyphics busi-
ness, but he probably would not have used it a second time with the
same person. As I have learned from other sources, he had various
devices to enchain the attention.)
Next Eeese began to tell what was on the paper, and to answer it.
The halting and imperfect way that he did it may have been partly
the effect of my bad writing, but was certainly a bit of consummate
art with which he imitated mediumistic business. There remained
no question that he had become aware of what I had written. Hav-
ing made his response, he said to Miss L., " Now let's have the billet
that is in that hand " (pointing to the hand which did not hold the
dummy) " and we will see whether that is right or not ". He took
the billet deliberately, drew his hand to his edge of the table, and
apparently spread what he had received out upon the table, but. of
course, another substitution had been made, so that what he really
opened upon the table was the billet which he had just read, and he
was provided with another one in advance. Were not the spirits
kind, or did not his telepathy surpass any other ever heard of, that he
not only learned what was on the papers, but also was able to tell
exactly in which hand of which person the particular ones were to
be found ?
Of course, he proceeded in the same fashion with the other two
billets, last of all getting back the dummy from Miss L.
Mind, I do not claim to have actually seen all the acts and move-
ments which I describe. It was practically impossible to see a single
substitution. Houdini said, in one of his books, that Bert Reese
was the greatest " billet-switcher " that the world ever knew, and
that without his own many years of experience he could not have
detected what the movements meant. What I did was to observe,
as minutely as I could, the utterances, the outstanding acts, the
sheltering posture of the man's fingers, and every possible detail, and
immediately afterwards to sit down to gather these indicia, and to
give the only possible rational interpretation for them as a whole.
The main fact that I did observe, however, in itself largely tells the
story and explains why a multitude of honest men look back to their
experiences with Reese and erroneously declare that Reese told them
what was on their billets before he ever touched them. I saw that
he did not touch the first three of them, but that he very unobtru-
sively and carefully did intercept the fourth, and in that act is the
key to the whole mystery of his performance. Add to this (in spite
2 54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1932
of my not seeing any actual substitution) the damning fact of con-
cealing one piece of the sheet of paper of equal size with the others
and keeping silent about the fact that it was abstracted, also that
curious and reiterated question whether I knew which writing was
on which billet, a question which could have no earthly occasion
other than as explained above.
As he told it, and as he believed that it occurred, there would be
no normal explanation for the incident of Reese's work as described
by the late Thomas A. Edison. But it was never told in the detail
necessary to understand exactly what took place. Whether it is true
or not, as Reese boasted to me, that Professor Muensterberg was
bowled over by him and had proposed having a series of experiments
in order to study the first psychical phenomenon of which he was
convinced, but was prevented by his death, I do not know. But,
remembering that Reese, as reported to me afterward, boasted to
some friends that he had fooled me, before putting belief in the
Muensterberg story, I should want to see those letters of the Harvard
professor which Reese said he would show me but never did. After
his performance with me, I grasped him warmly by the hand, utter-
ing several such expressions as "It was very interesting—it was
very extraordinary ". I had hoped to have another sitting with
him, but I could tell by Reese's manner as he went out that my
remarks, for all their fervour, did not have the right wording to
satisfy him, and he never would give me another sitting.
I repeat those words to-day, it was very interesting, and very
extraordinary indeed. I have seen some of the cleverest magicians
on the platform, but I never saw a whole programme that interested
me so much as the marvellous art of this man, who could accomplish
substitutions with three people present, none of whom were more
than three feet from him, without it being possible directly to detect
the acts of substitution, and do all in so calm, deliberate and non-
chalant a manner.
CORRESPONDENCE.
A THEORY OF SURVIVAL.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,
In Mr Saltmarsh's paper (Proceedings, xl. 105 ff.), which
effects such a valuable clearing of the ground for psychical research,
one point is touched on which, I think, deserves more critical atten-
tion from psychical researchers.
On p. 108, the author speaks of the faces and finger-prints which
are alleged to be formed out of some kind of teleplasmic or ecto-
May 1932 Correspondence 255
plasmic substance during sittings with physical mediums. The
physical characteristics, the forms of the face, the markings on the
skin of the fingers, etc., he continues, " originally depended on the
highly complex arrangement of the skin, muscles, nerves, etc., of the
living body of the deceased person. This arrangement was broken
up at death and the material scattered. In order to be reproduced
this material must be reassenbled in its original form or a facsimile
made out of other material. Is there any reason for holding that
the person who originallly owned the body is the only or even the
most likely agent who could do this reassembling ? I am inclined
to think that this is not so."
The point which I think requires discussion is the most likely inter-
pretation of an identified finger-print of a deceased person, if proved
to be genuine.
At death the material particles are certainly scattered, as Mr
Saltmarsh says, and it is also true to say that their arrangement is
broken up, if by " arrangement " is meant no more than their actual
spatial distribution. But, if by " arrangement " is meant the
system of forces or dispositions which (whatever they are and how-
ever they may act) determine this spatial distribution during life,
then I do not see that there is any direct evidence which obliges us
to assume its destruction. Such destruction is commonly assumed ;
thus, on p. 126 Mr Saltmarsh refers to " disembodied minds " in a
way which suggests that disembodiment is the inevitable corollory
of survival. This is the common assumption, but to my mind it
runs ahead of the evidence. Personally, I should regard the pro-
duction of a finger-print, indubitably recognised as that of a deceased
person (fraud being excluded), as strong evidence of the survival of
that person's body, meaning by the " body " an effective system of
non-physical dispositions which in life determines the minute spatial
arrangement of the cellular units or particles in the body—for
example, of the skin-ridges forming the finger-prints. If we suppose
such an effective organising system to exist and not to be included
in the chemical and physical properties of the particles themselves,
there appears to be no particular reason why it should not survive
death. If it did so, and afterwards came into contact with any
substance of a kind which it could influence, it might quite well re-
arrange this substance automatically in precisely the same way as
that in which it had in life arranged the physical cell-matter of the
organism.
I am considering that what is essential in the body is an organising
system, analogous in a rough sort of way to a magnetic field, and
that its visible appearance depends upon a supply of suitable
material within its field of influence, much as a card sprinkled with
iron filings is essential to make a magnetic field visible. Remove
256 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1932
the filings, and the field is no longer apparent to the senses ;
bring
the filings back, and the original pattern reappears.
Now, if the finger-print of a deceased person can be proved to have
appeared impressed on paraffin-wax at a sitting, it seems much
simpler to assume that it has not been produced by " thought " at
all but by the actual presence of the deceased person's " body "
acting automatically on some peculiar kind of substance.
It may, of course, be the case that the medium has only to think
of X's thumb for a model of it in ectoplasm to be formed, complete
in every detail of all the complicated lines ; but when looked into,
this theory is very difficult to believe. Even granting an existing
record of the finger-print of the deceased (such a record must be
supposed to exist for purposes of identification), the theory demands
an extraordinary concatenation of marvellous processes. (1) The
medium must obtain clairvoyant access to this recorded impression.
(2) She must either (a) retain a subconscious memory of it, perfect
in every detail, while she is reproducing it in ectoplasm at the sitting,
or (6) maintain a subconscious rapport with it during the sitting
sufficiently close and minute to enable her to reproduce a complete
replica. (3) Her thought influences the ectoplasm directly. The
reproduction is of an idea, and intermediary mechanism is lacking,
thus making the process semi-magical.
On the other hand, the theory of a non-physical " body " of forma-
tive dispositions has a certain a priori plausibility ;
it is not alto-
gether an ad hoc hypothesis coming directly out of the blue. Some-
thing of the kind would appear to be inevitable unless we accept a
rigidly mechanistic form of biology. Without such a hypothesis,
that is to say, those formative dispositions which are effective in
shaping and maintaining the organisms in life must be assumed to
reside entirely within the material particles themselves. That such
a theory, consistently upheld as an ultimate or metaphysical scheme,
is fraught with immense difficulties, can scarcely be denied. Such
an eminent biologist as Dr J. S. Haldane has said, " A mechanism of
hereditary transmission is simply a contradiction in terms
. '
' Neither
need the rejection of mechanism necessarily involve vitalism or an
instrumentalist view of the mind-body question. There is, I think,
a possible via media ; but that is going too far afield.
What I wish to point out is that the existence of some such non-
physical " body " is placed quite on the cards by biological facts
alone, and that the hypothesis, if introduced into psychical research,
would explain such a thing as a post-mortem finger-print far more
simply and naturally than that of a mediumistic " thought-picture
"
reproduced in ectoplasm.
I do not say that a surviving " body " of this kind, even if proved
to exist, would establish the survival of the personality. But, if it
May 1932 Reviews 257
were associated with appropriate and characteristic mental pheno-
mena, it would go a long way in forming an important chain of
evidence.
Yours, etc..
G. N. M. Tyrrell.
MME KAHL-TOUKHOLKA : A CORRECTION
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,
Glancing through an old copy of Proceedings (xxxviii. 410),
my eye was caught by Mr Besterinan's account of his sitting in Paris
with a Russian medium. Mme Kahl-Toukholka. who seems to have
endeavoured to name his wife to him as " Genriette ". Mrs Bester-
man's name being Henrietta, Mr Besterman suggests in his account
that " Genriette " is the French version of it plus an initial G.
Actually, the matter is simpler. Russians always turn such an
H into G, so that the Russian form of Henrietta would be " Gen-
rietta ". The difference in the final vowel of Mme Kahl-Toukholka's
version seems a small matter—to be explained perhaps by the French
termination of an otherwise uncommon name—compared with the
accuracy (to Russian minds) of the initial consonant.
Yours, etc.,
C. E. Bechhofer Roberts.
[I am greatly obliged to Mr Bechhofer Roberts for his correction,
which simplifies the incident I recorded and improves its evidential
value. Th. B.]
REVIEWS.
Ludvig Dahl. We are Here. Foreword by Sir Oliver Lodge. 8vo,
pp. 256, 3 ill. London : Rider and Co.. 1931. Price 7s. 6d.
net.
" We are here ", or actually " We here ". is the introductory
phrase used by two communicators who purport to be the sons of
the author, a Norwegian Judge, in their talks with him through the
mediumship of his daughter Ingeborg. Ludvig Dahl, the eldest son,
met with a sailing accident on 29 May 1919 and was killed ;
Ragnar,
the youngest, died of tuberculosis on 31 May 1921. Seven months
after the eldest son's death the Judge and his family held a table
sitting, at which his married daughter, Ingeborg. proved to be the
medium, and by interpreting the tilts of the table in the usual way
it was learned that the purporting communicator was Ludvig.
The difficulty of obtaining evidence where the medium is a
member of the family is obvious, but Judge Dahl assures us as
2.58 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1932
regards " proofs of identity ", that " these were readily and satis-
factorily given, by way of little familiar reminiscences from Ludvig's
early childhood " (page 27), apparently overlooking the fact that
these, if familiar, would certainly be known to those present, in-
cluding probably the medium. The name of a Swedish gardener to
whom Ludvig was much attached when about four years old was
given, however, the author remarking (page 27), " I am especially
mentioning this example because that name was so far from our
thoughts." On the following page he tells us that, as far as he and
the family were concerned, they needed no further proof.
On the death of the youngest son, Ragnar, he too became a regular
communicator, and from 1923 onward the ouija board was used
instead of the table. Ingeborg being sometimes in trance, sometimes
awake. The greater part of the book is occupied by descriptions of
life after death received by this method, but an interesting feature
of the mediumship from the point of view of psychical research, is the
clairvoyant state which takes place at the conclusion of the ouija
board sittings. In this state the medium apparently sees and hears
her brothers, and is quite unconscious of the presence of the rest of
the family. She becomes childlike in the clairvoyant condition, and
it is only with difficulty that the communicators can get her to repeat
what they wish to say. On awaking from this condition she is
able, says Judge Dahl. to give interesting descriptions " supple-
mented by messages of significant and even evidential contents,
directed to some stranger who happens to attend the seance. Then
a name may be given, which she was unable to give during the
clairvoyance, or an allusion to the earth life of the person concerned
"
(page 101). This would seem to have something in common with
Mrs Piper's " waking stage ", and it is regrettable that so few details
or information received in this way are given.
Chapter 5, entitled " Miscellaneous Episodes ", is devoted to inci-
dents connected with various types of phenomena claimed for the
medium, including reproduction of the handwriting of deceased
persons, booktests, and apports. The handwriting phenomena are
illustrated by photographic reproductions of the handwriting of
various communicators while alive, of that purporting to come from
them through the hand of the msdium, and of the medium's own
handwriting. The signature in the letter of the deceased English
lady to her niece bears a quite striking resemblance to her signature
while alive—more so perhaps than does the spirit-writing of Wiers-
Jenssen to his original writing. The reproduction of the medium's
handwriting shows no resemblance to any of the others, and we are
assured in both cases that she had never seen the original hand-
writing. With regard to the letter from the English lady, the
author states on page 227 that the medium's " knowledge of English
Mat 1932 Reviews 259'
is limited to that of the average Norwegian girl who has attended a
secondary school. An English letter she had never before written."
The booktests are of quite a different type to those obtained by
Mrs Leonard, and from the description given by Judge Dahl it does
not seem that normal knowledge on the part of the medium of the
books and their contents can be ruled out. Briefly, the books were
in a room in Judge Dahl's own house. There were apparently only
two shelves of them, an upper and a lower. The communicators,
Ludvig and Ragnar, said they would go into this room and read a
passage from any book that the sitters chose. Thus the 7th book
from the left on* the upper shelf was selected (the total number of
books on each shelf is unspecified). This turned out to be Words-
worth's Poetical Works, and several passages from page 316 were
read correctly, apparently in English. Other successful tests of the
same kind are given, but they would be more convincing if the sitters
had been allowed to select the page, as well as the book, or if the books
on the shelves had been thoroughly mixed up before the sitting.
Of the apport phenomena little can be said, except that their
supernormal character depends entirely on the good faith of the
medium, as she was not of course controlled in any way. The first
phenomenon, however, took place in full light. In this case, a piece
of paper, said to have been given to her by the invisible Ludvig,
suddenly appeared in the medium's hand. In the second case two
letters were produced in her hand after " a slight click " (page 240)
when she was standing in the middle of a room
£i
with hands out-
stretched and palms upward."
It is much to be hoped that further records of Fru Ingeborg's-
mediumship will be made from a more critical and evidential stand-
point.
S. R. W. Wilson.
Henri Mager, Water Diviners and their Methods. Translated by
A. H. Bell. 8vo, pp. xi. 308, 7 ill. London : G. Bell and Sons,
Ltd., 1931. Price 16s. net.
Abel Ernest Martin, Diagnostic Radiesthesique en Medecine-
Veterinaire. 8vo, pp. 102. Paris : Librairie Le Francois, 1932.
Readers who followed the three-cornered discussion in the Journal
for November 1931 (Towards a Theory of Dowsing) will be glad to
have in an English translation one of the principal French books on
the subject. Where so much is obscure it is gratifying to find an
author who can boldly say, as M. Mager does in his Introduction,
" My object has been attained. I have solved the enigma of the
divining-rod and perhaps the enigma of matter."
The first half of the book is mainly historical. An account is
260 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mat 1932
given of several famous dowsers, mostly French, and their methods.
There is a long section, fully illustrated, on different forms of pen-
dulum used in dowsing, but M. Mager distrusts the pendulum alto-
gether as responding too readily to the conscious or unconscious
thought of the dowser, whereas " the divining rod in competent
hands refuses all such complaisance."
After describing the various types of forked rod used by dowsers,
M. Mager enquires " Why the rod moves ". Like other continental
theorists, he does not accept the hypothesis familiar to English
readers from Sir W. Barrett's work, that the movements of the rod
are due to unconscious muscular action exteriorising a purely psychic
perception on the part of the dowser. They are due, he holds, to a
line of force coming up through the ground and impinging on the
apex of the forked rod : the force travels along the right branch up
the right arm. through the right side of the body, and discharges
through the right foot into the ground, and a similar circuit is estab-
lished through the left branch, arm and leg, there being an absolute
division down the centre of the body. If either half of the body is
insulated, e.g. by a rubber shoe, the circuit of that side is destroyed
and the rod fails to function properly. Copper, he maintains, stops
the current on the right side, but not the left : iron the current on
the left, but not the right.
M. Mager's principal contribution to the theory and practice of
dowsing is the use of rods of divers colours. These, he claims, re-
spond in different ways according to the chemical composition of the
substances whose vibrations cause the rod to move, so that it is
possible by his method to tell not only the area of a subterranean
field of water, its depth and force, but also its purity and potability.
He describes in some detail the experiments that led him to this con-
clusion, and the successes which he claims to have achieved in put-
ting his discoveries in practice.
What is lacking in the book is evidence that M. Mager's methods
if followed by other dowsers would give similar results. Until this
has been shown the objective validity of the methods must remain
in doubt. It is to be hoped that M. Mager's very interesting, if
speculative, book, will induce other dowsers to put his theories to
the test.
A like criticism applies, as the author candidly admits, to the
second book. Dr Martin, a veterinary surgeon, claims that it is
possible by means of a pendulum to discover whether an animal is
in a healthy condition or not, and if it is unhealthy, to locate the
mischief : if the pendulum is held in the left hand and the right is
stretched out as an " antenna " towards the animal, the pendulum
will rotate counter-clockwise if the animal is healthy, and will oscil-
late without rotation in the neighbourhood of an unhealthy organ.
Mat 1932 Notes on Periodicals 261
If the experimenter will place the beast between himself and the. sun
and will hold, in the same hand as the pendulum, a temoin of the
appropriate substance, he will discover the cause of the mischief, as
the appropriate temoin will now make the pendulum rotate. Thus
by means of a steel temoin Dr Martin discovered that a cow had
swallowed a knitting needle, and so on. Dr Martin admits, however,
that without pathological training, no results of value are likely to
be obtained.
W. H. S.
Ottokar Fischer. Illustrated Magic. Trans. J. B. Mussey and
Fulton Oursler. -ito, pp. xiii. 203, 234 portraits, diagrams and
ill. New York : Macmillan Co., 1931. Price 25s. net,
An American translation from a German original, admirably got
up. containing descriptions and the modus operandi of a great number
of classical conjuring tricks and illusions, with photographic illustra-
tions of the details of apparatus and manipulation. Besides chapters
on card magic, feats of dexterity, stage and optical illusions, the
mystery of puzzles and of escapes, none of which, except for the
existence of people who insist on the mediumistic capacity of that
master of escapes, the late Harry Houdini, are of special concern to
the S.P.R., there are discussions of such other subjects as stage mind-
reading and clairvoyance and ghosts, and feats of fakirs, in which
we may consider ourselves more directly interested. A good de-
scription of the codes used by stage telepathists is given. If more of
the public had read this chapter before witnessing the performance
of the Zancigs there would have been fewer to insist upon their
possession of genuine telepathic capacity. In the chapters on
fakirs an explanation is given of the mango-trick and of at least one
variety of the famous rope-trick, as seen by Mr Dittmar. an engineer,
in which " an ingeniously woven rope was used, which on a skilful
toss by the fakir became stiff and stood upright. One coil of the
rope rested on the ground offering enough support so that not a man,
it is true, but at any rate a small monkey, could climb up and down."
It seems impossible that a wretched trick of this kind could have
given rise to the travellers' tales of the performance of which one so
often hears, but eye-witnesses of which are so hard to find.
EVERARD FEILDING.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Mercure de France, 1 December 1931.
Dr Libert-Chatenay contributes an article on precognition. He
accepts precognition as actually occurring, both in the states of
waking and sleep, the only controversy being as to its nature and
262 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1932
cause. He lays it down that in both these states the individual
maintains relation with the external world of time and space as well
as with the infinite and eternal universe, the former being the pheno-
menon, the latter the noumenon.
Man has therefore the power to acquire knowledge of the past,
present and future. Knowledge of the past is governed by the laws
of logic, which laws have been discovered and stated. Knowledge
of the future is acquired by the operation of the mind in another
direction where the laws of logic cannot follow. The laws governing
this operation have yet to be discovered.
All nature is subject to law, it follows that there is no such thing
as fortuitous coincidence ; what appears to be such is only what he
calls " concordance ". He therefore denies the existence of chance
as an independent causative factor.
It may be questioned whether any instructed person to-day really
holds the view attacked ;
surely all that is meant by chance is a
concatenation of causes and circumstances so complex and so im-
perfectly known as to defy calculation.
Dr Chatenay quite rightly points out that there is no causal rela-
tion between the premonition and its fulfilment, there is no " fatalite
de soi " only logically " en soi ".
He quotes with approval Maeterlinck's phrase " les noces mer-
veilleuses que celebrent l'Espace et le Temps " and says that the
solution of the problem of precognition must be sought in this
concept.
The remainder of the article is a criticism of the view expressed
by Auguste Lumiere on the matter of a premonitory dream. Sub-
stantially this is that the number of dreams is so great that it must
sometimes happen that apparent premonitions occur due simply to
chance-coincidence, and he cites two examples of coincidence which,
he says, are more extraordinary than the fulfilment of any dream.
Dr Chatenay objects that the phenomena are of an entirely different
order and argues against Lumiere's conclusion, not altogether, in
the writer's opinion, with complete success.
He ends by citing three examples of what he calls precognition in
space. These, however, being simultaneous monitions, are irrele-
vant.
Though it cannot be said that the article throws any fresh light on
the subject, it is worth studying by those interested in the problem.
H. F. Saltmarsh.
No. 486,-Vol. XXVII. June 1932
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
This month
The Society for Psychical Research
celebrates its Jubilee
1882-1932
The arrangements are set out on the next two -pages
JUBILEE CELEBRATIONS
1882-1932
PROGRAMME
WEDNESDAY, 29 JUNE 1932, 5 p.m.
CONWAY HALL
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
by Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
THURSDAY, 30 JUNE, 9 p.m.
LANGHAM HOTEL
Reception by the President and Council to Members
and Associates
FRIDAY, 1 JULY, 3 p.m.
CONWAY HALL
ADDRESS ON THE HISTORY OF THE SOCIETY
BY
Mrs Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D., President of Honour
MONDAY, 4 JULY, 8.30 p.m.
CONWAY HALL
LECTURE ON PSYCHOLOGY AND PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH
by William Brown, M.D., D.Sc, F.R.C.P.
JUBILEE CELEBRATIONS
1882-1932
The officials of the Society will be At Home at the Eooms of the
Society, 31 Tavistock Square, London,. W.C. 1, on Sunday afternoon,
3 July, and hope that Members and Associates will come in quite
informally.
^ * ^
Invitations to the Reception on Thursday, 30 June, were circulated
with the May Journal.
:J:
Tickets for the three meetings on 29 June, 1 July, and 4 July, are
enclosed with the present issue of the Journal to enable Members
and Associates each to bring one friend to these meetings. Members
and Associates themselves will be admitted as usual on signing their
names at the door.
:|: i[:
DONATIONS FOR THE SOCIETY'S JUBILEE
CELEBRATIONS
Mrs F. W. H. Myers - - £25 0 0
Anonymous - - - - - - - 20 00
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart. - - 10 0 0
Sir Oliver Lodge - - - - - 10 0 0
H. F. Saltmarsh 2 2 0
Lady Butt -------200
£69 2 0
266 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1932
NEW MEMBERS.
{Elected 27 April 1932)
Ball, Mrs, 11 Nevill Park, Timbridge Wells, Kent.
De Janasz, Robert, 5 Bryanston Street, London, W. 1.
Loach, Mrs, 4 Lansdowne Road, Bromley, Kent.
Olliver, C. W., Zugerberg, Switzerland.
Rowntree, W. S., 15 Chatsworth Road, Brighton, Sussex.
Talbot, H. M., 102 Farley Road, Croham Heights, Surrey.
Tennant, Mrs, Hams Plot, Beaminster, Dorset.
Wilkinson, L., Deepdene, Aldeburgh, Suffolk.
{Elected 25 May 1932)
Heard, H. F. Gerald, 28 Portman Court, London, W. 1
Reeves, E. A., F.R.A.S., F.R.G.S., 85 Langbourne Mansions, London,
N. 6.
Smith, Mrs M. A., 33 Dale View Crescent, London, E. 4.
Wood, Christopher, 28 Portman Court, London, W. 1.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 295th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 27 April 1932, at 4 p.m., The
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There were
also present : Dr William Brown, Mr Lancelot S. Fletcher, Lord
Charles Hope. Miss Ina Jephson, Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart., Mr
W. H. Salter and Mrs Salter ;
also, Mr Theodore Besterman, Lib-
rarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Eight new members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The Monthly Accounts for March were presented and taken as
read.
The 296th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 25 May 1932, at 3.45 p.m., The
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There were
also present: Mr W. R, Bousfield, K.C., Dr C. D. Broad, Dr William
Brown, Professor E. R. Dodds, Mr Lancelot S. Fletcher, Lord Charles
Hope, Miss Ina Jephson, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Dr T. W.
Mitchell, Mr W. H. Salter, and Mr S. G. Soal ; also Mr Theodore
Besterman, Librarian and Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
June 1932 J/-
»
tint/s >>i (lie Council 267
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct.
Four new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The Monthly Accounts for April 1932 were presented and taken as
read.
PRIVATE MEETINGS.
Sittings with Valiantine and Phoenix.
The 113th Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday,
30 March 1932, at 5.30 p.m., The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton in
the Chair.
Lord Charles Hope read a paper entitled " Report on Some
Sittings with Valiantine and Phoenix in 1927/' which is printed,
somewhat abridged, in Part 125 of Proceedings.
In the discussion which followed Miss Fleming asked whether
direct communications had ever been received through Valiantine
from relatives who had died quite recently.
Mr C. A. Moss suggested that Valiantine might be descended from
an Itaban and that he might thus have a knowledge of the language.
Miss Reutiner said she had sat with Valiantine and understood that
communications had been received through him in Hindustani.
Lady Barrett asked to what extent it was claimed that the foreign
messages given by Valiantine and Phoenix consisted of consecutive
sentences or words.
Mr Besterman added that Dr Whymant appeared to use the word
" conversation " rather loosely. An exchange of words and phrases
certainly appeared to have taken place, but unless each observation
had some definite connection with the foregoing one. this could
hardly be called a conversation.
Dr E. J. Dingwall agreed that this was a crucial point. In general
he thought that Dr Whymant's observations were to be attributed
to hallucination. But in regard to the Chinese he felt this assump-
tion could hardly be made.
Mr G. R. S. Mead said that the sounds of Chinese were very diffi-
cult for a European to reproduce.
The Rev. J. W. Hayes, Mrs Carpenter, Colonel Dick, and Mr
Strawson also took part in the discussion.
Lord Charles Hope, in replying, said that he had not himself re-
ceived communications from recently deceased friends. There was
considerable doubt whether Hindustani had actually been spoken
in Valiantine's sittings. It was possible that the medium sometimes
got telepathic impressions.
26S Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1932
The Relation between Parapsychical and
Paraphysical Phenomena.
The 114th private meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday,
27 April 1932, at 5.30 p.m., Sir Lawrence Jones in the Chair.
Mr W. H. Salter read a paper entitled " The Relation between
Parapsychical and Paraphysical Phenomena," of which an abridg-
ment is printed below.
The question as to the nature of the relation between para-
physical and parapsychical phenomena is one which must have
exercised the mind of every student of psychical research, but little
light is thrown on it in the standard literature of our subject. Pod-
more's The New Spiritualism is probably the most helpful book.
The object of this paper is to touch briefly on a few aspects of this
question.
Is psychical research concerned with two distinct and unrelated
subjects which by the accident of history have come to share a com-
mon name, or do paraphysical and parapsychical phenomena own
some common underlying factor which unites them as naturally as
zoology and botany ?
Some persons, but probably no Members of our Society, might
perhaps suggest that the question could be sufficiently answered by
saying that all alleged supernormal phenomena are the products of
deliberate fraud, but confining our attention to instances of both
types of phenomena which, whether certainly supernormal or not,
are not due merely to deliberate fraud, we have enough material to
go on.
We start with a human predisposition to regard mental marvels as
incomplete if unaccompanied by a marvel on the physical plane.
This is an integral part of the popular conception of the supernatural,
well established long before mankind began to suspect that much
which passed as supernatural was in reality supernormal.
Coming to the beginning of modern psychical research we find in
the Hydesville rappings in 1848 the mental and physical factors
closely combined. The raps, it will be remembered, are reported to
have given correct replies to questions, the answers to which were
normally known only to the questioners. Whether or not the Hydes-
ville phenomena were fraudulent is immaterial for the present pur-
pose, as during the decades which followed them the association of
mental and physical phenomena was confirmed in popular opinion by
two types of phenomena, in which the physical factor, though we
should not now regard it as supernormal, was not the mere product
of fraud.
The first of these was table-tilting, which became popular in the
1850's. The notion that the movements of the table in themselves,.
June 1932 Private Meetings 269
apart from any question of the content of the messages spelt out,
were due to some supernormal force long survived Faraday's demon-
strations that they were caused by unconscious muscular action.
Even more important, perhaps, were the somatic conditions attendant
on mediumistic trance. In the then state of medical science it was
only to be expected that these should seem to be quite outside the
ordinary course of nature.
Through D. D. Home's mediumship the traditional association of
the mental and physical is carried over into the age of scientific
inquiry. The records of Home's spirit messages are, however, so
imperfect that it is impossible now to determine whether he pos-
sessed any real parapsychical powers ;
Myers, Barrett and Podmore
were all inclined to accept them. But it is, of course, on his para-
physical phenomena, still so hotly debated, that Home's present
fame rests. With Stainton Moses the association continued, but
whether his physical phenomena was genuine or not, they were pro-
duced under very inferior conditions, and it is not for them, but for
the Spirit Teachings, and for one or two cases of possibly supernormal
knowledge, that he deserves consideration.
When however we come to the principal mediums of the next
generation, such as Mrs Piper and Eusapia, the cleavage between
the two types of mediumship becomes obvious, and has, with some
exceptions, persisted to our day. In the line of succession to Mrs
Piper we have Mrs Leonard, Mrs Warren Elliott and the S.P.R.
group of aiitomatists, while Eusapia's lineage includes Eva C,
Kathleen Goligher and the Schneider brothers. The cleavage is not
absolute. Mrs Leonard's recent autobiography makes mention of a
few physical phenomena, but it is not clear that these were produced
through her own mediumship. Mrs Thompson, during the earlier
part of her mediumship, produced physical phenomena. Nor must
the versatility of Margery be overlooked, although as long as her
phenomena are produced under the same auspices as hitherto, re-
sults which would help us in our inquiry are not to be expected.
While the cleavage is not complete it may none the less be said
that, during practically the whole of our Society's existence, all the
physical phenomena that matter derive from one group, and all the
mental phenomena that matter from the other. Can this cleavage
between the two types of mediumship be paralleled in the sphere of
spontaneous phenomena ? Let us consider the three main types,
the poltergeist, the " fixed local ghost " and the veridical phantasm.
The typical poltergeist is purely physical and unconnected with
any display of supernormal intelligence. There are, however, a few
apparent exceptions. In the Hydesville case already mentioned the
raps were reported to have displayed supernormal intelligence in
answering questions. The Derrygonelly case investigated by Sir
270 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1932
William Barrett in 1877 is another exception of the same kind (see
Proceedings, xxv. 390). If a good number of more cases of the same
type were forthcoming and were supported by good evidence, we
might be led to the conclusion that this class of phenomenon had
some linkage with parapsychical phenomena, but on the present
scanty evidence we cannot assume more than a chance connection
between the physical phenomena, which are typical, and the mental,
which, assuming them to be well established, are very rare.
The type of haunting known as the " fixed local ghost " is hard to
place. It is very rare, and to judge from our records, is growing
progressively rarer. There seems very little evidence for imputing
intelligence to it, but it would appear that somehow a physical point
de repere is an essential factor as in psychometry, a form of medium-
ship accepted by so cautious a critic as Dr Walter Prince.
Veridical phantasms are generally accepted as purely psychical,
subject to the reservation made by Myers and Richet regarding
reciprocal and collective cases. Myers's views are not very easy to
follow : equally with the other authors of Phantasms of the Living he
rejected the view that the body has a rarified duplicate, a " meta-
organism " capable of projection to a distant point in space : this
would imply, to use his words, the existence of a meta-coat and meta-
trousers. What he argued for was " the breaking loose of a psychical
element . . . definable mainly by its power of producing a phantasm,
perceptible by one or more persons, in some portion or other of space,"
and discussing a particular case he adds, " a certain psychical ele-
ment so far detached itself from its organism as to affect a certain
portion of space, not materially nor even optically, but yet in such a
manner that to a certain kind of immaterial and non-optical sensi-
tivity a phantasm became discernible " (see Phantasms, ii. 277 seq.).
Notwithstanding the great weight which attaches to any considered
opinion of Myers, the difficulties of this conception seem to outweigh
those involved in supposing that collective hallucinations are tele-
pathic in origin, and have no spacial existence at all.
It would seem therefore that the cleavage noticed between the
paraphysical and parapsychical in mediumistic phenomena is even
more pronounced in spontaneous phenomena.
A word is perhaps necessary as to cases of mixed or combined
mental and physical phenomena, such as spirit photography or the
" direct voice " of trumpet mediumship. In many of the cases re-
ported it would appear that mental phenomena of poor quality are
accepted because they are guaranteed by physical phenomena which
are no better, and vice versa ; there are few types of mediumship for
the genuineness of which the evidence is less satisfactory.
Let us now consider whether the two types of phenomena operate
through some common or similar force, and also whether they origin-
June 1932 Private Meetings 271
ate in any common or similar psychology in the persons through
whose agency they occur. Under the first heading we may compare
telepathy and telekinesis as being the two best authenticated forms
of each class of phenomena.
Telepathy is generally accepted as a purely psychical process, inde-
pendent not only of any physical force known to us, but also of any
force which, while unknown, yet conforms to known physical laws.
The main, but not the only, argument in support of this view, is that
telepathy takes no account of distances, and treats with disrespect
the law of inverse squares. The evidence for telepathy has not yet
convinced general scientific opinion, but so far as it goes, it seems to
point to the direct action of mind upon mind. One sometimes hears
telepathy spoken of as a sort of " beggarly rudiment " that the
S.P.R. ought long ago to have left behind ; but it is such a revolu-
tionary conception, that if nothing else had been done by the Society
in the last fifty years beyond bringing it as near the point of proof as
it has been brought, our time would not have been wasted.
Whether telekinesis, on the assumption that it is genuine, is to be
regarded as the direct operation of mind on matter, or as the operation
of mind on normal matter through the medium of matter in the
abnormal condition known as ectoplasm, it does not in either aspect
seem to offer any analogy or parallel to telepathy.
Various theories have from time to time been put forward to ex-
plain the connection between paraphysical and parapsychical pheno-
mena such as the etheric and ideoplastic theories. If one starts with
the essential connection of the parapsychical and paraphysical as
proved, it is legitimate, possibly inevitable, to adopt some theories of
this kind as a missing link, but it is not satisfactory to reverse the
process and make the missing link an argument to prove the connec-
tion.
In considering the psychological conditions favouring the produc-
tion of either type of phenomenon it is best at the outset to confine
our attention to the spontaneous instances of each type and to pro-
ceed later to mediumistic phenomena, since the genuineness of each
medium's performances must be judged separately, while the much
greater number of persons concerned in the production of spontan-
eous phenomena more readily permits generalisation.
A glance at Phantasms of the Living or Mrs Sidgwick's later collec-
tion of similar cases will show the very wide distribution of spon-
taneous mental phenomena. It is impossible to point to any type or
class of sane human being and say, " there goes a typical agent or
a typical percipient " or, " there goes a person who is most unlikely
to transmit or perceive a veridical hallucination." Poltergeist
phenomena, on the other hand, conform to a general type, as agreed
both by those who believe in their genuineness and by those who do
272 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1932
not. They centre round some individual of a type almost too familiar
to require description. Usually it is a child, occasionally an adult, in
either case mentally or physically subnormal. The surroundings are
usually uncongenial, and the main purpose of the phenomena seems
to be to compensate the depressed person round whom they centre
by conferring a transient importance. The poltergeist, if left to run
its course unchecked, may develop into regular physical mediumship,
and so it becomes important to inquire whether anything is to be
found outside the limits of poltergeist phenomena psychologically
analogous to the " naughty little girl." to use Podmore's convenient
label for the typical poltergeist.
Two parallels at once suggest themselves. First the mischievous
phase, often observed in cases of multiple personality, of which the
Sally of Morton Prince's Miss Beauchamp is probably the best-
known . The second is the child control frequently appearing in the
case of mediums of various types. The nature and origin of Sally
has been much debated, but it is sufficient for the present purpose
that as the result of dissociation there emerged a very tricky, clever
child personality, quite unlike either the normal Miss Beauchamp or
any of her other subsidiary personalities, and eager to play mis-
chievous pranks on them ; a character in fact very closely resembling
the child medium of poltergeist cases, except that Sally was more
amusing and attractive. Margaret of the Doris Fischer case comes
into the same general class as Sally. It will be remembered that the
re-integrated Doris is credited by Dr Walter Prince with supernormal
powers.
Of the child Controls of mediums many seem to be no more than
noms de guerre. Others, such as Feda, have all the distinguishing
marks of personality, whether independent of or subsidiary to the
normal personality of the medium. Feda, according to the universal
testimony of Mrs Leonard's sitters, has the attractive characteristics
of Sally without her less admirable traits. But except in the one
respect of childishness there is as little resemblance between Feda
and the typical " naughty little girl " of the poltergeist cases, as there
is between poltergeist phenomena and Mrs Leonard's trance com-
munications.
But with the other types of mediums we may find instances of
child Control much more in line with the poltergeist cases. There is,
for example, Stainton Moses's " Little Dickie," who it will be re-
membered provided the comic relief in the almost too serious atmo-
sphere of Stainton Moses's sittings. Like Sally he was amusing and
mischievous and showed little regard for the physical comfort of the
principal personality : for instance he hit Stainton Moses on the head
with a brass candlestick. His kinship with the typical child medium
of poltergeist cases is also apparent.
June 1932 Private Meetings 273
Mrs Thompson, who produced physical phenomena in the earlier
stages of her mediumship, but later confined herself to trance com-
munications, had a child Control Nelly, and Mrs Piper had a child,
Chlorine, as one of her earliest Controls.
With Mrs Leonard's Feda we reach the opposite pole to the type
represented by Sally, Dickie and the " naughty little girl " of the
poltergeist cases. That there should be differences in the characters
of child Controls is not surprising, but may be significant. They
correspond to the differences between real flesh and blood children.
Not all little girls are naughty little girls, and not all children, thank
goodness, become the centres of poltergeist disturbances. While it
seems that there is a natural tendency for mediumistic dissociation
to bring to the surface a child personality endowed with those char-
acteristics which most children share, playfulness and some liking
for make-believe, the nature of the child personality which rises to
the surface seems to vary with the fundamental nature of the medium,
and the phenomena produced seem to vary in the same way. Mrs
Leonard, as everyone knows, is a well-balanced contented woman,
and Mrs Piper has been described as placid in the extreme.
Stainton Moses, on the other hand, though successful as clergyman
and schoolmaster, was obviously something of a misfit. It is not
of course suggested that the " Dickie " phase of Stainton Moses was
responsible for the whole of his phenomena : it would be absurd to
attribute the Spirit Teachings to a mere " infantile regression."
Podmore's analysis of mediumistic psychology in The Newer Spirit-
ualism (Book II, chap, i) is in many ways admirable. He stresses
the common psychological origin of physical and mental mediumship
in dissociation, bringing to the surface a child personality. " The
trance personality," he says, " is commonly non-moral in the sense
that many children and some savages are non-moral. ... It shows
little desire, has perhaps little aptitude, for distinguishing between
facts and fiction," and so on. Hence he finds it natural that most
trance mediums have at one time or another produced physical
phenomena, or as he puts it, " they voyage in the same boat with
Home and Eusapia ." He excepts cases of slight dissociation such as
those which result in automatic writing. The analysis would be even
better if he had not ignored the great divergence between the types
of child personality evoked by dissociation, and probably if he were
writing this chapter now with knowledge of more recent develop-
ments he would have laid more stress on the differences, and less on
the similarities between the two types of mediumship.
We may sum the matter up by saying that, so far as concerns spon-
taneous phenomena, which occur without trance and so without dis-
sociation, there is no psychological connection between the two types :
so far as regards mediumistic phenomena, in cases where there is no
274 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1932
dissociation, or only a slight one, there is also no connection : in
mediumistic cases, where there is much dissociation, there is a con-
nection in the emergence of the child phase or personality, but only a
superficial one, as the child personalities vary as widely as the normal
personality of the mediums themselves.
So far the discussion has left the question of fraud on one side, but
it is impossible to conclude it without asking which particular kind
of mental phenomena and which of physical are being compared with
each other. As regards the mental it is generally agreed that
abundant evidence is forthcoming for the genuineness of both
spontaneous and mediumistic phenomena. With the physical
phenomena the case is entirely different, and the difference in evi-
dential value suggests some fundamental difference inherent in the
two types of phenomena. The contrast has been so well and so
recently drawn by Dr Walter Prince in his Presidential Address that
it is unnecessary to dwell on it in detail.
In the discussion which followed the paper, Mr Besterman referred
to Dr Osty's recent investigation of Rudi Schneider as affording
another instance of paraphysical phenomena (in that case, interfer-
ence with an infra-red ray by some substance or force which could not
be photographed) apparently responding to intelligent direction.
Mr Hettinger, Mr Findlater, and Miss Reutiner discussed the con-
nection between mental and physical phenomena with regard to table
tilting and the direct voice.
Mr Lambert emphasized the difficulty of drawing a clear-cut dis-
tinction between genuine physical phenomena and hallucinations,
while admitting that hallucinations affecting several senses of several
percipients at the same time were almost unknown.
The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas said that it was important that
everybody who was interested in psychical research should test their
own powers for the production both of mental and of physical pheno-
mena, as nobody knew what their powers were until they had tested
them. He believed that there emanated from mediums what he
would call a " field of influence " and that it was of denser character
in the case of physical mediums than with mental mediums, and he
hoped that apparatus would be invented to enable us to investigate
it,
Miss Fleming and Mr Wilkinson also took part in the discussion.
Junk 1932 Correspondence 275
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE STATISTICAL METHOD OF ASSESSING THE EVI-
DENTIAL VALUE OF MEDIUMISTIC COMMUNICATIONS.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,
In vol. xxxix of Proceedings, p. 58, Mr Saltmarsh, dealing with
the difficult problem of scoring sittings so that the statistical method
may be applied to them, writes :
" The closest analogy seems to be
the marking of examination papers on some literary subject where
differences of opinion, individual idiosyncracy, nuances of meaning,
all complicate the matter." This comparison between the problem
of scoring and the marking of examination papers on some literary
subject should make the following experiment of great interest.
Some time ago, the Durham University School Examinations
Board authorised an experiment to test the reliability of the methods
of marking the English papers set for the School Leaving Certificate.
The papers comprised an essay and precis (a two-hour paper) and
answers to six questions on set books in literature (a three-hour
paper) . All the scripts from one school—48 in number—were marked
separately by seven examiners of long experience, both in teaching
and examining. These examiners did not meet or consult one another
about the marking but were told the object of the experiment. The
result, given in the table below, was astounding, even to teachers and
examiners prepared for differences in standards of marking.
Examiner Fail Pass Credit Special C
A 1 16 27 4
B 0 2 :;i L2
C 7 30 11 0
D 0 9 36 3
E 5 16 27 ii
F 2 7 37 2
G 19 L2 17 0
This discrepancy in the marking becomes even more pronounced
if the " Credit " mark (the most important one) is taken and candi-
dates divided into two classes.
Examiner Below Credit Credit and Above
A 17 31
B 2 46
C 37 11
D 9 39
E 21 27
F 9 39
G 31 17
276 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Joxe1932
Finally, when this classification was examined, it was found that
only one candidate out of the 48 was placed by all the examiners in
the same class.
The bearing of this experiment on the statistical method in
psychical research is obvious. It shows how sound is Mr Salt-
marsh's view (p. 59) that " the ideal method would be to have each
record scored independently by several persons, who would be pro-
vided with a set of rules for their guidance ; a discussion between them
of each disputed point would in all probability then result in some
compromise, and the average of the final scores might be taken as a
fairly reliable estimate." It is quite true, as he says, that such a
method " would entail an enormous amount of labour," but an inves-
tigation made on this principle (together with the other suggestions
he makes in the Appendix) would be a valuable contribution to
psychical research.
Yours, etc.,
J. W. FlNDLATER.
[The interesting experiment referred to by Mr Findlater is de-
scribed in two articles by Charles Roberts and H. V. A. Briscoe in
The A.M.A. (the journal of the Incorporated Association of Assistant
Masters in Secondary Schools), for December 1931 and February
1932 (xxvi. 319-20, xxvii. 47-8). Arrangements are being made for
a similar experiment in the marking of mediumistic records.
—
Ed.]
IS PROOF OF SURVIVAL POSSIBLE ?
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,
In the April Journal under the above heading Mr Saltmarsh
has very clearly set forth some of the difficulties he finds in connec-
tion with the idea of latency. Of chief interest is his suggestion that
if an impression is received as a memory there is no reason why a
period should be set to its latency. I think all these difficulties dis-
appear if we take the word latency in its scientific connotation, where
there is always the idea of potential energy ; not that of the ever-
resilient-spring type, but (as there are experimental psychological
grounds for positing) something analogous to an electric charge which
slowly loses strength if not discharged.
But the theory of latency was only suggested provisionally to
account for phantasms of the recently deceased without having to
attribute them to discarnate agency (v. Myers, Human Personality,
concise ed., p. 223). Incidentally it necessitated rather high-
handed action with a considerable mass of well-attested evidence for
phantasms of the dead, which has in effect to be attributed to tele-
pathic impressions received by the percipients from unknown living
June 1932 Correspondence 277
persons in a state of perturbation at their recollections of fear or
apprehension under strange natural or apparently praeternatural
experiences. The theory is mainly based upon the " lagging " ob-
served in certain historical telepathic experiments with hypnotised
subjects (v. loc. cit.) which, it may be suggested, may possibly have
been due not to latency at all. but to lethargy or slowness of action
on the part of the percipients. It is not " latency " which causes the
proverbial Scot to laugh at a joke A while others are enjoying joke B.
The Morton haunting, the Barter ghost, Miss L. Dodson's exper-
ience, the F. G. case (the scratched nose)—to mention a few old re-
corded examples of apparitions—are strongly suggestive of discar-
nate agency, which is supplemented by (e.g.) the Statius, Ear of
Dionysius and Lethe cases and the best evidence obtained by Mr W.
Irving and Mr Drayton Thomas with Mrs Leonard.1
It is in my opinion not possible to do the evidence justice by
generalised pronouncements on the different categories of material
collected by the Society, although categorical proof may be a con-
summation never to be realised.
Yours, etc.,
Ernest S. Thomas.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF TESTIMONY.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,
I venture to assume that most of the members of the S.P.R.
must have been amazed at the contents of the Society's Proceedings
for May 1932. Officially they consist of a report of a " series of
experimental sittings . . . for the purpose of investigating the most
favourable conditions for observation in sittings for psychical
[sic, read " physical.'"
—
Ed.] phenomena." The Cotincil approved
the scheme.
Six sittings were held, and each was attended by seven members of
the Society [this is not correct : see the report, pp. 369, 373.
—
Ed.]
making forty-two in all. After each sitting they answered a written
questionnaire by Mr T. Besterman as to what had actually happened
during the twenty-five minutes that the sitting occupied (movements
on the part of the lady enacting the medium, interruptions by him-
self, etc.) and he marked them for the accuracy and scope of the
answers. The rest of the Proceedings is taken up with eighteen
1
The remarkable incident of the pseudo-personality John Ferguson recorded
by Mr Soal (Proc. S.P.R.. vol. xxv) from his sittings with Mrs Cooper, which
weighs against the " spiritistic hypothesis," may perhaps be correlated with
what was said by controls through Mrs Leonard io Sir Oliver Lodge regarding
" masks " and " personations " (v. Conviction of Survival, pp. 23-33) although
the cases are obviously different in character.
278 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1932
pages of elaborate tables concerning the marks the sitters earned,
and Mr Besterman's analysis of them. As the procedure at all these
sittings was identical, they yield no results whatever as to the inves-
tigation of the most " favourable conditions for observation " which
was their avowed object, but only show the comparative powers in
observing of forty-two unnamed persons.
It is impossible to imagine a more futile issue of the Proceedings of
a Society whose aim is Psychical Research, for from first page to last
there is nothing however remotely connected with it. Surely it
would be better if, during any month, there is nothing whatever to
report about the Society's activities in their subject, to notify the
members, and issue no Proceedings at all, but save the expense of
photographs, plans, printing and publication, till the Council has
some material which is of possible interest to its members.
Yours, etc.,
E. F. Benson.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
The Lancet, 17 October 1931.
Dr Robert M. Riggall, Hon. Clinical Psychologist to the West
End Hospital for Nervous Diseases, gives a brief account of an
interesting case of an eightfold multiple personality. It is the
case of a woman, now aged 41, whose medical history is known
since 1915. As Dr Riggall is a psycho-analyst it is interesting to
note that the various personalities fit very well into a psycho-
analytical view of human personality. This feature does not
appear in the classical cases of multiple personality. So far as can
be gathered from Dr Riggall's brief account the splitting of the
personality began in 1915, when the patient herself claimed that
she was a dual personality. While under the care of Dr W. H. B.
Stoddart at St Thomas's Hospital during 1916 and 1917 " several
different personalities were discovered by means of hypnosis." It
would be interesting to learn precisely how these personalities were
" discovered." It is unfortunately only too often true that such
pseudo-personalities are " suggested " to the patient by the hypno-
tist himself. A case of eightfold personality is so unusual that it
is to be hoped a detailed report will be forthcoming in due course.
Th. B.
No. 487.—Vol. XXVII. July 1932
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY,
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1,
ON
WEDNESDAY, 28 September 1932, at 5.30 p.m.,
WHEN A PAPER WILL BE READ ENTITLED
"SUPERNORMAL PHOTOGRAPHY"
BY
Major W. RAMPLING ROSE
AND
Mr FRED BARLOW
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
280 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1932
The Rooms of the Society will be closed after Saturday, 30 July,
until Monday, 12 September. Correspondence will be forwarded to
the staff during this time. Members may borrow not more than
six volumes from the Library before the Rooms close. The next
number of the " Journal " will be issued in October.
THE SOCIETY'S JUBILEE 1882-1932.
The celebration of the Society's Jubilee was inaugurated by the
delivery of his Presidential Address by Sir Oliver Lodge, on 29 June,
in the Conway Hall. His Address will be printed in Part 127 of
Proceedings.
On the following day there was a Council Dinner at the Langham
Hotel. The President, Sir Oliver Lodge, presided, and the following
were present : Dr Eleanor C. Lodge, Mr and Mrs Brodie Lodge, Miss
Norah Lodge, Sir Lawrence and Lady Jones, Dame Edith Lyttelton,
Mr and the Hon. Mrs Harold Myers, Lady Barrett, Mr S. C. Scott,
Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P., Lord Charles Hope, the Hon. Everard
Feilding, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, Sir Reginald Johnston,
K.C.M.G., Mrs E. W. Allison, Mr C. H. Ardron, Mrs W. W. Baggally,
Mr F. Barlow, Mr and Mrs Theodore Besterman, Dr and Mrs William
Brown, Mr and Mrs H. Bury, Miss Carruthers, Mrs. Coombe-Tennant,
Mrs De Crespigny, Professor and Mrs E. R. Dodds, Mrs C. B. Fernald,
Dr D. F. Fraser-Harris, Dr Lionel Giles, Mr David Gow, Mr C. C. L.
Gregory, Rev. J. W. Hayes, Rev. W. S. Irving, Miss Boucher James,
Miss Ina Jephson, Mr and Mrs G. W. Lambert, Mr G. R. S. Mead,
Mr and Mrs Ernest Milton, Dr and Mrs T. W. Mitchell, Miss Isabel
Newton, Miss Ramsden, Mrs Kenneth Richmond, Major Rampling
Rose, Mr and Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal, Professor F. J. M.
Stratton, Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, Mr E. S. Thomas, Rev. H.
Thurston, Miss Vincent, Miss Nea Walker.
After the loyal toast Sir Ernest Bennett proposed " The pious
memory of the Founders and the future prosperity of the Society "
;
and Sir Oliver Lodge proposed the health of Mrs Sidgwick, the
President of Honour, referring in moving terms to the great services
she had rendered the Society and the regret felt by all at her inability
to be present. He also referred to the regretted absence (due in some
cases to reasons of age and health, and in others to the world-wide
economic depression) of distinguished foreign members of the Society.
Letters of congratulation and regret had been received from Pro-
fessor Charles Richet, Professor Hans Driesch, Professor Henri
Bergson, Dr W. F. Prince, Professor Max Dessoir, Professor T. K.
Oesterreich, Dr Eugene Osty, Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo,
Graf C. von Klinckowstroem, Dr Tanagras, Dr R. Tischner, Mr Carl
Vett, and others.
July 1932 The Society's Jubilee 1882-1932 281
Professor Gilbert Murray also wrote regretting that an important
engagement in connection with, the League of Nations Union pre-
vented his presence at the Jubilee celebrations.
The dinner was followed by a Reception by the President and
Council, to which all Members and Associates were invited. There
was a large attendance, and an excellent programme of music was
provided by the Griller Quartet.
On 1 July Mrs Henry Sidgwick's paper on the history of the Society
was read in the Conway Hall by the Rt Hon. the Earl of Balfour.
Her paper is circulated herewith as Part 126 of Proceedings.
On 2 July Dr William Brown, F.R.C.P., Wilde Reader in Mental
Philosophy in the University of Oxford, delivered an Address in the
Conway Hall on " Psychology and Psychical Research," which will
be published in Part 127 of Proceedings.
MORE ALLEGED OCCURRENCES OF THE ROPE-TRICK.
By The Hon. Everard Feilding.
Having been recently reminded, through reading for review Ottokar
Fischer's Illustrated Magic, of the verbal account given me some
twenty years ago by a friend (who prefers to be referred to by his
initials, but whose name is known to the Editor) of an occasion on
which he had himself seen a performance of the rope-trick, I asked
him to write a report of his experience. Several letters have passed
between us, but for brevity I have to summarise the resultant of his
original statement and of his answers to my questions.
16 February 1932.
" One Sunday afternoon in December 1903 in my bungalow on the
Wynaad plateau, S. India, my boy Daniel told me a group of
jugglers had arrived and would like to perform before me. I de-
murred, thinking they were of the ordinary type. . . . David, how-
ever, insisted that they were out of the ordinary and I agreed. . . . The
group consisted of four, an aged man with a long white beard, an-
other man middle aged, a woman and a small boy of about 10 years
from the Telegu country. They proceeded with their performance,
which was good, . . . and after a little time I dismissed them. Some
little time after, Daniel appeared to say they were still at the back
and were anxious to show us a special trick which he declared to be
'
so so clever,' but they wanted a promise of 15 rupees. . . . The
verandah not being suitable we went outside. They told me I was to
see the boy climbing up a rope to the sky. I may say here that while
I knew this to be a wonderful trick and had read of it in books I did
not know that but few people had seen it, and I have, ever since,
blamed myself for not noting details with more care.
282 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1932
" The performance which had gone before had been carried through
by the three younger members of the group, the old man contenting
himself with droning on some pipes. In this matter however the old
man took complete charge.
" He asked for four saucers which he placed at the corners of a
square of about 6' x 6'. In the centre of the square he placed a
shallow earthenware vessel, about 15" in diameter. The boy stripped
off everything except a '
langooty '
and string. The old man poured
some grayish powder into the saucers and central chatty.
" He insisted that if Daniel was to watch he must sit close to me
so he squatted between my feet, he also stipulated for dead silence,
no smoking, and we were both to watch him carefully.
" He put a match to the powders, and from all the vessels arose a
thin column of rather pungent smoke. He then took a fine rope,
coiled it, and held it in his right hand. The boy kept close to him the
whole time and copied every movement he made.
" He then squatted down and kept up a sort of incantation, mak-
ing passes with his hands. (These passes were not out of the ordinary
but of the type usually made by jugglers when at work.) In the
meantime the man and woman were busy on the tom-toms. This
went on for some time until I got rather bored ; but was afraid to
take my eyes off him as I expected something to happen any mo-
ment. Suddenly he moved towards the centre column of smoke
keeping his eyes on us throughout, and after what seemed a short
time, flung the rope into the air. The boy sprang for the rope and
disappeared up the rope through the smoke column. The whole
thing was very quick, he seemed to go up, dwindle and disappear.
I remember it was a case of the boy being hauled up by, rather than
climbing, the rope, for his position as I saw him was that of a man
being lowered on a rope with his foot in a loop of it, one arm out-
stretched holding the rope above, the other arm by his side. He
just disappeared rope and all. The tom-toms had been worked up
to a roar and then .suddenly ceased.
" When I looked down again the old man was sitting calmly op-
posite with a smile on his face. The boy was not to be seen but
presently the woman cupped her hands and called, and the boy ap-
peared on the hill nearby. This was a high hill about as high as that
on which the old bungalow at W. [a place known to me. E.F.]
rested, although much more precipitous. That is all I can tell you
of what I saw. Daniel saw all I saw, and was worried declaring it
to be '
devil's work'.
" The old man declined discussion on the trick simply asking for
his fee. which he got.
" Daniel and myself were the only onlookers, my other servants
having gone away for the day. Daniel declared he felt ill and had
July 1932 More Alleged Occurrences of the Rope-Trick 283
a bad head that night and next day, but knowing Daniel to be rather
fond of master's whiskey I put this down to what I found had always
previously been the cause of such heads. I did not time it, but the
whole affair took about half an hour. The time was between 5.30
and 6 p.m. The old man was really aged, though fairly active, and
I should have put him down as 80 and over."
22 February 1932.
" The following answers to your questions may help you. (1) The
account was made from memory, but the details were planted in my
mind when I wrote a letter at the time describing it to my father.
" (2) When I say '
fine '
rope I mean a rope of ordinary thickness,
of say \ inch to f inch in diameter. I did not examine the rope, but
from what I remember it was of ordinary make.
"
(3) No, the smoke was not thick enough to obscure the boy. I
could not say to what height the boy went, but he certainly grew
less and less, until he vanished. The rope seemed to go with the
boy.
" (4) I did not see the end of the rope for all my attention was
riveted on the boy.
" (5) The rope vanished with the boy, nor did I see it again, and
I did not examine it.
" (6) As regards the time taken from when the man flung up the
rope to when the boy and rope disappeared I could not rightly say,
but it seemed a matter of very few seconds.
" (7) As regards the height of the hill, an active boy could have
got to the top of it easily in five minutes. It must have been the
same boy for it was a lonely place, and no other people could have
been '
pressed '
into the service of the jugglers. I cannot of course
say how long it was before the boy appeared ; but it seemed almost
at once after I looked down that the woman called out, and he ap-
peared.
" (8) As to whether at the time everything seemed quite normal
like a conjuring trick, or whether I felt as if I had been bemused or
made the victim of an optical illusion, it seemed to me an ordinary
trick which I could not explain, and I do not remember ever thinking
I was in any way bewitched, or bemused.
" (9) At that time of year the days were short : I do not remember
what the light was like, but it was usually dark by 6 to 6.10 p.m. in
December. The sunset I could not see at any time from the bungalow
site as the country was very broken."
I wrote further to ask if the report to his father was extant and
whether he could not say approximately whether the boy went up
10 feet high or 20 or 50 or 100. Also, as it seemed to me impossible
that a rope hanging from the sky with a boy disappearing up it could
284 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1932
appear like an ordinary trick, whether there was nothing about it
that seemed abnormal.
To this he replied :
25 February 1932.
" I am sorry to say the account I wrote for my father is not extant.
" (2) I'm afraid it is very disappointing, but I cannot state any
given height [to which the boy seemed to go]. The boy disappeared,
and as he disappeared decreased in size so that the height must have
been well over the maximum you instance.
'*
(3) I was only 23 years of age when I saw this trick performed,
and at the time did not consider it any more wonderful than that
one of placing a boy in a basket, piercing him with swords, the boy
presently appearing perfectly sound and intact from the bottom of
the garden although one had never taken one's eyes from the basket
into which he had originally stepped. As I say, I was young at the
time and did not appreciate the wonder I was being shown.
" No, I cannot say there was anything which seemed abnormal
to me."
Up to this point, I had abstained from reminding my friend of
anything he had told me before. As I have said it was about 20
years ago, but my recollection of the account he then gave me was
absolutely clear on two points, viz. that the height of the rope did
not exceed 10-12 feet and that when he looked at the top of it it
seemed muzzy, i.e. not normal. The difference was so striking that
I asked whether the mythopoeic faculty had been at work in his
mind or in mine. He replied :
7 March 1932.
" I fear it is in my mind, not yours, that the mythopoeic faculty
is at work. There is no doubt as regards the rope not being a long
one, for the coil I saw was small, so my memory as regards the
ending of the trick is probably faulty, and what I told you some
twenty years back (very nearly) would be more exact. There is no
doubt that Daniel my servant considered himself bemused : but as
for myself, whether my memory through distance has become
warped I cannot say, but I am quite unable to remember whether
my vision of the boy was clear or foggy at the moment he disappeared.
" Now that you mention the fact I clearly remember telling you
what you write and that is, I should say, probably what is correct.
One tells these stories (based on fact) to people who murmur '
How
wonderful ' and forget all about them, and one is therefore rather
inclined to slur actual detail happenings and in time forget what to
the keen analyst of such matters are the main essentials, so you must
forgive me if I have disappointed you."
Well it certainly is disappointing, but even the account as my
July 1932 More Alleged Occurrences of the Rope-Trick 285
friend first told it me years ago was sufficiently impressive to make
it probable that the trick he saw was something very difEerent from
that described in the book which has given rise to this discussion
(see my review in Journal S.P.R., May 1932, xxvii, 261).
Since writing the above my attention has been called to some
correspondence about this trick which appeared in the Morning
Post at the end of January 1932, amongst others from MrsPennell-
Williamson, of Boscombe, who supplemented her account in a letter
to myself. She refers to an occasion 35 years ago when she saw the
rope-trick in Mussoorie in Northern India. Her version differs from
H.A.'s in that she says the boy climbed up the rope hand over hand
and vanished at the top at a height of from 20 to 30 feet, coming
back after a few moments from another part of the grounds of a
hotel, from a window on the first floor of which she viewed it. This
lady is of opinion that the effect was one of some hypnotic influence.
Various officers wrote to the Morning Post maintaining that the
rope-trick was purely a myth, chiefly on the ground that although
they had offered rewards for its performance no one had ever come
forward to claim them. Reference, however, was made by one
correspondent to Lord Frederick Hamilton's book Here, There and
Everywhere, published in 1921, which contains a story told to the
author by Colonel Barnard, at one time chief of police in Calcutta,
who with an English subordinate saw what purported to be the
trick. Colonel Barnard, having never seen the rope-trick, had in-
structed his policemen to inform him of the arrival in Calcutta of any
juggler professing to do it. At length the police told him that a
man able to perform the trick had come and would show it on con-
dition that Colonel Barnard should be accompanied by one friend
only. The Colonel took with him one of his English subordinates ;
he also took his Kodak. They arrived at a poor house in the native
quarter, where they were ushered into a courtyard thick with dense
smoke rising from two braziers burning mysterious compounds. The
juggler, naked except for his loincloth, appeared and commenced
salaaming profoundly, continuing his salaams for some little while.
Eventually he produced " a long coil of rope. To Colonel Barnard's
surprise the rope began paying away, as sailors would say, out of
the juggler's hand of its own accord, and went straight up into the
air. Colonel Barnard Kodaked it. It went up and up, till their eyes
could no longer follow it. Colonel Barnard Kodaked it again. Then
a small boy, standing by the juggler, commenced climbing up this
rope, suspended to nothing, supported by nothing. He was Kodaked.
The boy went up and up, till he disappeared from view.
" The juggler, professing himself angry with the boy for his
dilatoriness, started in pursuit of him up this rope, hanging to noth-
ing. He was Kodaked, too. Finally, the man descended the rope
286 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1932
and wiped a blood-stained knife, explaining that he had killed the
boy for disobeying his orders. He then pulled the rope down and
coiled it up, and suddenly the boy reappeared.
" The two Europeans returned home absolutely mystified. Colonel
Barnard went into his dark room and developed his negatives.
Neither the juggler, nor the boy, nor the rope had moved at all. The
photographs of the ascending rope, of the boy climbing it, and of the
man following him, were simply blanks, showing the details of the
courtyard and nothing else. Nothing whatever had happened : but
how, in the name of all that is wonderful, had the impression been
conveyed to two hard-headed, matter-of-fact Englishmen ?
"
I have no means of judging whether when Colonel Barnard told
his story to Lord Frederick Hamilton or when the latter wrote his
book the mythopoeic faculty had been at work on one or other of
them, as seems to have been the case with my friend H.A. It will
be noticed that in two respects their accounts tally, i.e. the smoke-
producing powder or herbs, and the impression that the rope went
up of itself. Through another correspondent of the Morning Post,
Mr F. I). Logan, I was referred to an account of the trick in the
journal of the great Moorish traveller, Ibn Battuta, who went to
China in about 1345 and records how he there saw a juggler take a
wooden ball with holes in which were long leather thongs and throw
it in the air till it rose right out of sight,—the audience were sitting
in the Palace Court during the hot season—when nothing remained
in his hand but a short piece of the cord [or thong]. He then ordered
an apprentice to go up the cord until he too disappeared from sight.
The juggler called him three times without receiving any reply, so he
took a knife and climbed up till he disappeared as well. He then
threw down the boy's hands, feet and trunk, and finally his head and
then came down himself puffing and blowing and smeared with blood.
After saluting Ibn Battuta's host, an Emir, he placed the boy's limbs
touching one another and gave them a kick, when he rose up as sound
as ever. This so amazed Ibn Battuta that he got a palpitation of the
heart, so they gave him a potion, and then a Cadi sitting next to him
told him that there was no climbing or coming down or cutting up of
limbs at all, but that the whole thing was hocus-pocus.
This is only one of many accounts of marvels performed by fakirs
in Ibn Battuta's presence in India and China, which in the 14th cen-
tury would have offered a rich field of work for the S.P.R.
ON A SITTING WITH RUM SCHNEIDER.
By William Brown, M.D., D.Sc, F.R.C.P.
Owing to the appearance in the popular press of highly-coloured
reports of my recent experiences with Rudi Schneider, I felt it
July 1032 On a Sitting with Rudi Schneider 287
desirable to publish an accurate description over my own signature
as promptly as possible. For this reason I contributed the following
two letters to The Times of 7 May and 14 May respectively. The first
letter gives an objective account of the " phenomena " which I wit-
nessed, and my immediate mental reactions to them. The second
sets out the results of a week's hard thinking and reflection on the
whole experience, and states my considered opinion about it.
I may add that I was present at one or two " successful " sittings
with Rudi Schneider three years ago, and have had many unsuccess-
ful or " negative " sittings with him before the remarkable sitting to
which these letters refer.
I. From The Times of 7 May 1932.
Sir,—As a certain amount of publicity, unsolicited by me, has
been accorded to a striking experience which I had last Tuesday
night at the National Laboratory for Psychical Research, I should
like to give a brief record of my impressions in your journal, while they
are still fresh in my memory. A detailed record of every incident was
made at the time by a shorthand writer, but that is another matter.
I was one of a circle of seven people at a seance with Rudi Schneider,
the Austrian medium. We sat, holding hands, in front of a "cabinet",
or small recess, curtained off by two heavy curtains edged with
luminous strips, with the medium to the side, about 2 ft. from the
left-hand curtain, and fully controlled as to hands, feet, and head by
one of the sitters. A shaded red lamp hung in front of the curtains,
and on the floor in front of them, illuminated by the red rays, was a
small table with a detachable top on which was placed a knotted
handkerchief. A luminous waste-paper basket was also near by. In-
side the cabinet, on the floor, were vases containing different kinds
of flowers—daffodils, anemones, etc. I searched the cabinet care-
fully and found nothing else there. Then the room was plunged into
darkness, apart from the red light, and Rudi went into a trance char-
acterised by rapid breathing, which was kept up over long periods
of time. His trance personality, " Olga ", appeared and spoke in
whispered German.
Later the curtains began to shake and billow out as if blown by
a breeze, and we had a feeling of cold. After some experiences with
the basket, which " Olga " directed me to place on my knees and
then to hold near the curtain, and which was moved and tugged by
some unseen agency, sounds of movement seemed to come from the
small table, and a loud bang was heard in a far corner of the room.
Subsequently, on turning up the light, we found that the detachable
top had been hurled over our heads into that corner, and that the
knotted handkerchief had been transported over our heads into the
opposite corner of the room.
288 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1932
Then a mass of flowers suddenly emerged from the curtains at a
level of about 4 ft. from the floor and fell under the red lamp. They
had been caught up from the vases in the cabinet by some unseen
agency. Mr Harry Price, the director of the laboratory, who was
sitting immediately in front of the shaded red light, was asked by
" Olga " to hold a flower by its head, with the stalk pointing towards
the curtains, under the red light. It then disappeared towards the
cabinet. I was asked to do the same with another flower. I felt an
impact at the end of the stalk, and then the flower was drawn from
me into the darkness. These were the outstanding events of the sit-
ting. I could find no evidence of fraud or trickery, and, while retain-
ing an alert and critical attitude of mind throughout, I had a strong
feeling of some mysterious power working from within the cabinet,
a power for which I could imagine no mechanical or pneumatic con-
trivance as a cause—at least such as would be possible under the con-
ditions of the seance.
I have had sittings with many other " physical " mediums, and in
no case have received the impression of genuineness in their manifes-
tations such as I had with Rudi last Tuesday night. Undoubtedly
the phenomena are worthy of the closest scientific investigation.
I am, Sir, yours faithfully,
William Brown.
II. From The Times of 14 May 1932.
Sir,—In my letter of last Saturday I endeavoured to give a con-
cise, accurate account of a " successful " seance with the young
Austrian medium Rudi Schneider at which I was present on Tuesday
night, 3 May. I briefly described the chief events that occurred and
also my own mental reactions to them. At the time I had a feeling
of conviction that the phenomena could not be accounted for in
ordinary terms—in other words, that they were supernormal. But
intellectual conviction comes, if at all, only after reflection upon all
the relevant circumstances, and this involves in its scope a very wide
circle of facts both physical and psychological. Direct observation,
free from any inaccuracy, may point imperiously in one direction and
yet a full consideration of all the circumstances may indicate a differ-
ent interpretation. In psychical research, as in the investigation of
crime, circumstantial evidence is of supreme importance.
My experiences are paralleled by those of Dr D. Fraser-Harris and
of all the other sitters (a large number) who were present at one or
another of the more successful seances, and I understand that their
conviction of the genuineness of the phenomena was at least as strong
as mine. Moreover at the Institut Metapsychique in Paris the
director, Dr Eugene Osty, held a large number of seances with Rudi
last year, using infra-red rays and elaborate photo-electric receiving
July 1932 On a Sitting with Rudi Schneider 289
apparatus, whereby he seems to have demonstrated absorption of
such rays to the extent of 30 per cent, and more by action at a dis-
tance under trance conditions. These interesting researches are de-
scribed in " Les Pouvoirs Inconnus de l'Esprit sur la Matiere
"
(Librairie Felix Alcan, 1932). Similar results with infra-red rays have
been obtained in one or two sittings here in London with less elab-
orate apparatus.
Nevertheless, one is not relieved from the necessity of the closest
scrutiny of all the circumstances of these researches, and during the
past week my mind has hardly ceased from an active review of every
conceivable aspect of the problem. The human element must be
closely considered, the temperament, situation, and motives of every
person concerned, both here and abroad, so far as it is at all possible
to discover them. The order of events, the conditions of the seances,
certain observations which seemed insignificant at the time but
which may prove to be important in the light of later events—these
and many other considerations must play their part in helping one
to come to a final verdict.
In the light of such considerations as these I am still unable to dis-
pute the genuineness of the phenomena that I experienced. On the
other hand, the extensive lacunae in my knowledge of this wider
circle of facts prevent me from going sponsor for the phenomena, in
spite of their immediate impressiveness. Intellectual conviction can
only come, if at all, after a much more stringent scientific investiga-
tion carried out in a university laboratory or in the seance room of
the S.P.R., with trained scientists and psychical researchers as
sitters. In saying this I am not depreciating the very important pre-
liminary work that has already been done, both here in England and
on the Continent, but I am emphasising the need of confirmatory
evidence and of systematic verification. Further knowledge is re-
quired of the exact physiological and psychological nature of Rudi's
trance state, or so-called trance personality " Olga "—whether
genuine or spurious. An outstanding difficulty in this kind of re-
search, distinguishing it from ordinary scientific research, is that one
has to adapt oneself to the whims and preconceptions of the medium
on pain of getting no " phenomena ". One cannot dictate the condi-
tions of the investigation, but has to submit to dictation from him
or from his trance personality. Therefore indirect and hidden con-
trol of the investigation needs to be exceptionally stringent and far-
seeing.
Whether genuine or spurious, Rudi Schneider's trance manifesta-
tions are worthy of the closest scientific study, and will well repay
such study.
I am, Sir, yours faithfully,
William Brown.
290 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1932
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF TESTIMONY.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Str,—I have read with interest Mr E. F. Benson's criticism of the
experiments in the psychology of testimony published in the last
number of the Proceedings. He does not seem to me to have under-
stood the point of such experiments. It is generally realised by those
who have studied the evidence for the physical phenomena of
spiritualism that there is a strong tendency in witnesses to take an
exaggerated view of their own powers of observation and of their
ability to report what they have seen. The only way to convince
them of this is to give them the opportunity of comparing their ac-
count of what they think they saw or heard on some given occasion,
with an authentic account of what actually happened, by the person
or persons who know this from the inside as it were. And that is
what Mr Besterman endeavoured to do. Of course if he could have
produced the expectant atmosphere generally prevalent at a real
seance as S. J. Davey did, the evidence would be more interesting,
but in an experiment conducted under the auspices of the Society it
would hardly be permissible to do this. The effectiveness of the
evidence obtained would be increased by adding to the number and
varying the items, but if this is done it will hardly be necessary to
publish tables of the results every time.
Yours, etc.,
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir, —In the June Journal Mr E. F. Benson ventures to assume
that most of the members of the S.P.R. must have been amazed at
the contents of the Society's Proceedings for May 1932. I had formed
a similar opinion, but on other grounds than those put forward by
Mr Benson. I thought that many of our members would have been
surprised to learn that the accounts given by intelligent witnesses
of the events of a short sitting for physical phenomena could be so
faulty and so incomplete. Some of our members may not have read
the remarkable papers by Hodgson and Davey in Proceedings, vols,
iv and viii and the possibilities of mal-observation and lapse of
memory revealed in those papers may be unknown to them. Yet to
have knowledge of these possibilities is of the first importance in all
investigations of paraphysical phenomena, and serious students of
psychical research should welcome Mr Besterman's Report.
I do not understand how Mr Benson can describe such a report as
futile or maintain that there is nothing in it " however remotely con-
July 1032 Correspondent 291
nected " with psychical research. In my opinion some knowledge of
the psychology of testimony is essential in every form of psychical
research whatsoever.
Yours, etc.,
T. W. Mitchell.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir.—Mr E. F. Benson's letter in the June issue of the Journal
protesting at what he terms the futility of the contents of the
Society's Proceedings for May 1932, seems to me to show a very ill-
judged lack of appreciation of Mr Besterman's experiments. He
complains that the investigations " only show the comparative
powers of observing of forty-two unnamed persons." But is not that
the very crux of psychical research—the powers of observing of
named or unnamed persons 1
The great majority of us in these matters must always take our
evidence second-hand. The bulk of the " evidence " collected by
our Society after fifty years of effort is in the form of reports of per-
sonal experiences from persons unknown to most of us. Now quite
apart from the bona fides of these witnesses what are their " powers
of observing ?
" Surely a vital question indeed ! Mr Besterman's
investigations throw a rather disturbing light on the whole matter.
Look at his tentative conclusions :
Sitters largely ignore disturbances that appear to be irrelevant.
Sitters' reports of auditory conditions . . . are untrustworthy and
erratic, etc.
Thirteen sitters (out of 42 !) actually experienced illusions ranging
from extreme mal-observation to true hallucinations. Who would
have anticipated that result ?
I venture to assert that far from being futile the whole question is
one that requires the most serious investigation. I, for one, would
like to thank the experimenter for undertaking such a dull task and
I take off my hat to his patient spirit of enquiry.
Yours, etc.
G. W. Fisk.
THE MEDIUM BERT REESE.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—I am glad that Dr Prince has now printed his account of his
sitting with Reese. Any additional information regarding Reese's
methods, as well as those of Ludwig Kahn, is valuable, and from
what Dr Prince has recorded it is clear that Reese used several
methods in his performances.
I can, however, hardly agree that Reese's methods, as outlined by
292 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1932
Dr Prince, were so remarkable. Substitution of one billet for another
is not so difficult if the first billet can openly be seized. The fact
that Reese deliberately took the billet for the purpose of exchange
weakens his art from the point of view of the conjurer, who would
naturally assume that that was the occasion for substitution. Reese's
fame rests upon an entirely novel method of seizing the billets
without the knowledge of the sitters. This, coupled with a variation of
the misdirection noted by Dr Prince, was mainly responsible for the
theory that the billets remained untouched. But unfortunately he
did not, apparently, work this method before Dr Prince. Had he
done so Dr Prince would have been far more impressed by his
" marvellous art ". It was probably this method which Kahn also
used and on which was built up his reputation as a clairvoyant.
Yours, etc.,
E. J. Dingwall.
[It is hardly correct to imply that in Reese's sitting with Dr Prince
the first billet could be openly seized. On the contrary, it is precisely
Dr Prince's point that it was taken by Reese 'without the sitter's
knowledge. The method described by Dr Prince is, in essentials,
precisely the same as that recorded by previous observers, including
Dr Dingwall (see Zeitschrift fur kritischen Okhultismus, ii. 275 ff
,
where full references are given, to which may be added an account
dating from 1926 in the sixth edition of Prof. Max Dessoir's Vom
Jenseits der Seele [1931], pp. 96-8). If, therefore, Dr Dingwall now
knows of any other method used by Reese, it is to be hoped that he
will put it on record. Ed.]
ORIENTAL WORDS IN A DREAM.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—The following experience may interest Members of the
Society. In 1929 or 1930 I dreamt that I was standing in the midst
of a group of people of Oriental nationality in a flat country with
hills on the horizon—a sort of plateau. The colour of the country
was yellowish (hot looking), and the dress of the people with whom
I was talking was Oriental looking, mostly yellow long garments but
not exclusively so, there were light colours and a predominant note of
yellow in colour both in the landscape and their clothes—but this
was not stressed in any way. The point was that they were con-
sulting me as to the meaning of something or other which had to do
with religion. I supposed their religion, and I remember saying to
myself, in my dream, " These people at any rate think religion is
important ". I wondered at their asking me and felt that they did
not understand how ignorant I was. The sentence was repeated
July 1932 Correspondence 293
more than once. In my dream I seemed to understand their con-
versation but do not remember that I understood this particular
sentence, which was : Mifta-taleen.
I have spelt it as I pronounced it in my dream, and as they did.
I woke up, repeating this sentence, wide awake. I recognised that
the words were gibberish, but thought I would memorise them, so
that I should know, when I awoke for the day finally. I told myself
that the second syllable of the first word was the same as the first
syllable of the second word. For, in my dream it was only two words,
I thought. This enabled me to remember the phrase clearly.
A few weeks later, I met Mr Lawrence Lockhart, who knows both
the Persian and Arabic languages well, and asked him if there was
any meaning in these words that I had heard in my dream, in any
Oriental language that he knew. He at once said " Certainly, there
is
"—and wrote out this sentence in Persian and in Arabic . The mean-
ing is the same, he says, in both languagues : miftah-i-fallm, Persian ;
miftahu't-faUm, Arabic ;
meaning " The Key of the Teaching ".
In my dream, as will be noticed I heard the last letter of the word
as n, but I might easily have mistaken this.
My daughter to whom I told my dream next morning after dream-
ing it confirms me in what I say.
Yours, etc.,
Emily Baldwin.
Dorothy I. D. Baldwin.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
The Boston Society for Psychical Research, Bulletin XVI, April 1932.
This Bulletin of 135 pages, which contains The Sinclair Experi-
ments demonstrating Telepathy, by Dr W. F. Prince, consists of two
parts, the first being a careful and critical discussion of the telepathic
experiments, chiefly in the transference of rough drawings, conducted
by Mr and Mrs Upton Sinclair, she being the percipient. It may be
remembered that Mr Sinclair's book about them entitled Mental
Radio was reviewed in our Proceedings, vol. xxxix. Dr Prince, how-
ever, had before him more material than we had, for he had prac-
tically the whole of the original notes of the experiments described
in the book and of a number carried out since, including some in
which Professor McDougall was the agent. Moreover he himself
arranged a series of experiments in guessing without the aid of tele-
pathy, using one of the telepathic series as a standard of comparison.
The result was very much in favour of telepathy as against chance.
In this part Mrs Sinclair also described the conditions she finds
favourable to telepathic success.
We cannot in the space at our disposal describe Mrs Sinclair's
294 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1932
valuable experiments in more detail nor speak at length of the
second part of Dr Prince's study. This he describes us " Some His-
torical Data of Experiments for Telepathy, especially by means of
drawings." He here discusses in detail a number of published series
of telepathic experiments mostly published in our Proceedings from
early days onwards, though some published elsewhere. And he also
gives references to some which he does not describe in detail. It is
a useful reminder for students of the subject of what has been done.
But the whole Bulletin and the discussion of the Sinclair experi-
ments in particular, will be of great value to psychical research if it
stirs up possible percipients to try what they can do in telepathy,
for more experimentation is greatly needed. E. M. S.
Revue Metapsychique, September-October 1931.
This number opens with a paper by M. Rene Warcollier on
" Telepathic Drawings." M. Warcollier compares such drawings or
diagrams with those of children and primitives, noting analogies and
discrepancies.
" Rhabdomancy " or the divining-rod is much to the front in the
shape chiefly of the first two instalments of a long paper by Professor
Cazzamali of Milan. This paper, chiefly theoretical, deals also with
the experiments made on 16 March 1931 at the Verona stadion with
eight Italian dowsers. The results obtained Professor Cazzamali
describes as " excellent " in four cases and " negative " or " poor
"
in the other four. It is unfortunate that the experiments were to
some extent undoubtedly vitiated—as pointed out by Professor
Cazzamali himself—by the presence of the three engineers who had
prepared the nine artificial " zones " or " camps " to be explored
(p. 345).
Dr Osty deals with cases where people " foresee " their own death.
His conclusion is that such cases are not explicable as " mere
cellular warnings giving to the mind the certainty that the body will
soon cease to exist " ; and he thinks the cause to lie in " the cryptic
intelligence for which time and space are not barriers to knowledge."
The recent experiments with Rudi Schneider at the Paris Meta-
psychical Institute are dealt with by the same author in another
preliminary and very brief statement which promises us detailed
results in a few months. We regret to note that the financial re-
sources of the Institute are incidentally referred to as " incessantly
sinking."
From the Chronique we learn with regret of the death of Father
Mainage, a Dominican and Professor at the Paris Catholic Institute,
whose attitude towards psychical research—a very favourable one
—
seems to have been almost unique so far as the Roman Catholic
clergy are concerned. P.-P.-S.
No. 488.—Vol. XXVII. October 1932
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1,
ON
WEDNESDAY, 26 October 1932, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN
THE COMPLETE ANNOTATED RECORD OF
A SITTING WITH Mrs LEONARD
WILL BE READ BY
The Rev. W. S. IRVING
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
x
296 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1932
NEW MEMBERS.
Herbert, C. V. C, F.R.A.S., 3 King's Mansions, Lawrence Street,
London, S.W.3.
Hyder, S. M., The Chestnuts, Henley-on-Thames, Oxon.
Pocock, Miss F. N., 34 Gerard Road, London, S.W.13.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 297th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.I, on Wednesday, 29 June 1932, at 3.45 p.m., The
Earl of Balfour in the Chair. There were also present : Mr W. R.
Bousfield, K.C., Dr William Brown, Professor E. R. Dodds, Lord
Charles Hope, Miss Ina Jephson, Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart., The
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Professor F. C. S. Schiller, Mr S. G. Soal, and,
later, the President (Sir Oliver Lodge), who had been otherwise
engaged on the Society's business ; also Mr Theodore Besterman,
Librarian and Editor.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Three new members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
DONATIONS FOR THE SOCIETY'S JUBILEE
CELEBRATIONS.
Anonymous ----- -£500
Mr W. R. Bousfield, K.C. - -220
Dr C. D. Broad - 2 2 0
Sydney C. Scott - 0 10 6
£9 14 6
Previously acknowledged - - - 69 2 0
Total - - - - - £78 16 6
DONATIONS FOR RESEARCH.
Christopher Wood - £80 2 0
Gerald Heard - - - 25 0 0
Lord Charles Hope - - - - - 5 0 0
David J. Lewis - - - - - - 500
Mrs Lloyd Tuckey - 2 2 0
A. R. Bonus -------200
The Rev A. T. Fryer ----- 050
£119 9 0
October 1932 Case of Haunting at Ramsbury, Wilts 297
G. 296. CASE OF HAUNTING AT RAMSBURY, WILTS.
We have received the following account of a case of haunting from
Lord Balfour and Mr Piddington, signed by them both.
In June 1931, a man named Samuel Bull, by occupation a chim-
ney-sweep, died in his cottage in Oxford Street, Ramsbury. His
widow continued to live in the same cottage with a grandson, James
Bull, and soon after her husband's death became bed-ridden.
In August 1931, a married daughter of the widow came to live
with her mother at the cottage in Oxford Street, as well as her
husband and five children.
In February 1932, the hauntings described below began : the
apparition of Samuel Bull being seen by the members of the family.
On 3 April 1932 Lord Selborne was given a verbal account of the
hauntings by Admiral Hyde Parker, who lives at Ramsbury, and
on 6 April he wrote to Lord Balfour to say that Admiral Hyde
Parker would be willing to answer any communication from the
S.P.R. On 7 April, Lord Balfour wrote to Admiral Hyde Parker,
and on 11 April received from him a letter from which the extract
that follows is taken :
" I at once got into touch with our Vicar (Rev. G. H. Hackett) and
showed him your letter and Lord Selborne's, and he undertook
to obtain answers to your questions and to write out all he knows.
I now enclose his dossier which I do not think I can usefully add
anything to. . . .
The old widow of the defunct Bull is bedridden and too ill to
mind much about things, but Mrs Edwards, his daughter, is quite
willing to receive an investigator from your Society, or to give it any
help in her power."
The Vicar's report, enclosed in Admiral Hyde Parker's letter,
follows :
" Samuel Bull, chimney-sweep, a man of very pleasant and high
character, died of cancer, leaving an aged widow and grandson
aged 21.
A daughter, Mrs Edwards, gave up her own home and came with
her husband and five children to live with the widow for the purpose
of looking after her.
Soon after, certain rooms of the cottage became unfit and unsafe
for habitation, and as no alternative accommodation could be found,
they had to five in a dreadfully crowded and imhappy condition.
This state of things had continued for several months, although
continued effort has been made to find better housing.
Added to this, the aged widow has been very ill most of the time,
and confined to her bed all the time since very shortly after her
husband's decease.
29S Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1932
Some time in February (1932) when some of the children had gone
to bed, the mother (Mrs Edwards) was made anxious by their
sleeplessness and restlessness. They complained that there was
someone outside the door, and were very nervous.
No one was there, however, i.e. no visible presence, but the con-
ditions continued, and a little later the deceased man was seen to
ascend the stairs and pass through a door, which was shut, into the
room in which he died, and in which Mrs Bull, the widow, had been
lying for some time until it was condemned as unsafe, and which at
the time of the apparition's first appearance was shut up and unused.
The apparition was seen by Mrs Edwards and the grandson (aged
21) and then by all the others, widow and grandchildren.
At first everyone was terrified and the children screamed, but later,
and on subsequent occasions, were calmer, but in a state of quiet
awe.
The '
appearances '
have been very frequent since, but no diary
has been kept of dates and happenings.
All the questions submitted by Lord Balfour I had already put to
Mrs Edwards and the family, and had received consistent, satis-
factory, and in most cases quite clear and definite answers, but in
one or two cases they had found it difficult to express in words their
own experiences.
I once again, on receipt of the series of questions asked by Lord
Balfour, asked Mrs Edwards to answer all these questions in the
order in which they were set down, and again I received answers
which were perfectly consistent with her earlier statements and were
exactly the same except in one case, question No. 6, where an inter-
esting development is noted.
The following are the answers received :
1. Particulars of real names and address {not necessarily for pub-
lication) and dates :
Deceased man : Samuel Bull—who appears ;
Widow : Mary Jane Bull (aged invalid confined to her bed);
Daughter : Mrs Edwards ;
Son-in-law : Mr Edwards ;
Grandson : James Bull
;
Grandchildren : Five girls and boys—the eldest a girl nearly
14 years
;
All living in Oxford Street, Bamsbury. No particulars of actual
dates have been kept.
2. Have several members of the family seen the apparition at the
same time when they were together ?
Yes. All members together. Even the smallest girl (5 years ?)
who recognised the apparition as '
Grandpa Bull '.
October 1932 Case of Haunting at Ramsbury, Wilts 299
3. Have any members seen it when others did not ?
Yes. When some members have been absent, such as children at
school, husband at work, etc., but when the apparition comes all
who are present can see, and apparently can see equally well.
4. Details concerning the apparition. Is its appearance more or
less as in life, and solid ? Can they see the features clearly ?
Yes, as in life, dressed as he usually was in the evenings when he
had finished work.
Yes, solid, though only one member has felt him, that is the
widow. The apparition invariably goes to a position by the bed and
lays his hand upon the forehead of the widow. Mrs Bull says the
hand is firm but cold.
Yes, the features are clearly recognised (as instanced by the
child in answer 2 ) . Mrs Edwards has said that the thing which seemed
to fascinate her most was the appearance of his '
poor hands,'
because the knuckles seemed to be protuding through the skin.
5. Is any colour visible ? Is it heard as well as seen ? Have any
of the family felt as if touched ?
The family find it difficult to say anything as to colour. (I think
this is due to the dim fight in the house and the more or less drab
colour of his clothes whilst alive—see answer to question 4—but Mrs
Edwards spoke of the '
muffler '
he was wearing as being different
in colour from the rest of the clothes.)
Only the widow has felt the touch. (See answer to question 4.)
6. 7s the apparition seen, heard or felt (a) in daylight, (b) in artificial
light, (c) in twilight, (d) in darkness ?
The apparition has been seen at all times of the day and of the
night, but only seen at times of darkness because there were candles
burning. See Note A below.
7. Was there any sense of alarm felt at first ? Was it seen by one
person only or by more than one on the first occasion ?
Yes, there was alarm at first. See prefatory note.
It was seen first by Mrs Edwards and almost immediately after
by Jimmy—the grandson of 21 years.
8. Had the man ever said in life that he would try to reappear after
death ?
No. The '
appearance '
has come as a great shock to the family.
Note A.—All the statements bore testimony to the sadness of
the apparition's appearance. They '
understood '
that the deceased
was grieved at their forlorn condition, but the last two appearances
have changed considerably and he seems much happier. This is
believed to be due to the possibility that the family might soon go
into a Council house, and so be in happier circumstances.
With reference to answer to question 6. I had asked Mrs Edwards
some time ago whether the apparition were luminous—but she said
x2
soo Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1932
'
No '. When he appeared at night, though they felt his presence,
they could not see him without artificial light.
But now Mrs Edwards says, since this change in him he is lighter.
I asked, '
Do you mean that he shines with a light of his own ?
'
She answered, '
I can hardly tell, but I think so '. I asked, '
If
he were to come in the middle of the night do you think you would
see him without the help of your candle 1
'
She answered '
Yes, I
believe I should.'
There was genuine grief at the sadness of his appearance before,
and now there is as genuine gladness at the change that has taken
place.
Note B.—The family always know the '
presence '
is there for half
an hour or more before anybody sees him. They are conscious of a
peculiar restlessness or stirring or expectancy. Mrs Edwards says,
'
I feel as though I am expecting my brother from America, or
something like that '.
Note C.—There is some hope that the family might be moving into
a Council house in a few days time, and in that case the apparition
might cease to appear, especially as the owner intends to put the
house into condition, which will involve very considerable disturb-
ance of present conditions. So if the S.P.R. propose to make any
investigation there is no time to be lost.
Mrs Edwards will be very pleased to do all in her power to facilitate
an investigation.
(Signed) Geo. H. Hackett,
9 April 1932. Vicar of Ramsbury.
Extra Notes.—The appearances are not fleeting, but quite
lengthy, and [on] one occasion at least, lasted for several hours.
Mrs Bull had faithfully nursed the deceased for four years before
he '
passed '
from sooty cancer."
On 14 April, Lord Balfour and Mr Piddington went to Ramsbury,
and had a long interview at Admiral Hyde Parker's house with the
Admiral and Mr Hackett, the Vicar. During this interview the
Vicar gave them the following information :
1. With regard to the statement contained in the Note attached
to his report to the effect that on one occasion the apparition
" lasted for several hours ", the Vicar explained that he had meant
by this that the figure appeared off and on during several hours.
2. The widow once heard the ghost say " Jane "—that being her
name.
3. The first to see the apparition were Mrs Edwards and her
nephew of 21 years old, and they saw it on the same occasion. [See,
however, below for Mrs Edwards's own statement which differs
from the above.]
October 1932 Case of Haunting at Ramsbury, Wilts 301
4. In reply to the question " What grounds have the family for
thinking that the apparition has any connexion with the unsatis-
factory state of the cottage ?
" the Vicar said he thought that they
had no grounds beyond " sheer inference ".
5. When the children complained of there being " some one out-
side the door ", they did not, the Vicar understands, hear any
noise ; nor has any noise been heard by other members of the
family, with the exception of the widow, who, as mentioned above,
once heard her name spoken.
6. When asked whether any members of the family have been
interested in Spiritualism, the Vicar said " No " ; and he returned
the same answer when asked whether any members of the family have
had previously any experiences similar to the present ones.
7. Mrs Edwards, with whom the Vicar had had a talk earlier in
the morning of 14 April, had spontaneously told him that the
appearances take a great deal out of the members of the family, and
especially out of old Mrs Bull. She also told him spontaneously
that Mrs Bull often sees the figure ; and that the last appearance
had been on Saturday, 9 April.
8. In reply to the suggestion that the whole story might have been
concocted for the purpose of arousing sympathy with the family on
account of the wretched conditions in which they were living, and so
increase the chances of their obtaining better accommodation, the
Vicar said that, in the first place, he believed in the good faith of the
witnesses, and, in the second place, that any such plot might well
have had just the opposite result to that desired. He added, how-
ever, that the family might, of course, have miscalculated the out-
come of a manoeuvre of the kind.
9. Lord Selborne in his letter to Lord Balfour had written as
follows :
" The Admiral seemed to regard the family as telling the
truth, but he emphasised the fact that no strangers have ever seen
the apparition though they have been in the room when all the
family said they saw him." Admiral Hyde Parker said that Lord
Selborne must have misunderstood him ; and that so far as he knew
no strangers had ever been present during the appearances. The
Vicar agreed.
At 2.55 p.m. Admiral Hyde Parker, Mr Hackett, Lord Balfour
and Mr Piddington called at the cottage, and had a minute or two's
conversation with Mrs Edwards, downstairs. They then all went
upstairs into a bedroom where Mrs Bull was lying in bed, Mrs
Edwards taking with her her youngest child—the only one of her
children who was at home at the time.
They found the cottage completely dismantled, the only furniture
left being the bed in which Mrs Bull was lying and a single chair.
The dilapidated state of the cottage was apparent. The family were
302 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1932
actually engaged that day in moving into one of the local District
Council houses.
In Mrs. Bull's bedroom an interview then took place which lasted
about 40 minutes. In the course of it a number of questions were
put to Mrs Edwards and answered by her. Mrs Bull answered one
or two questions.
Appended is a summary of what Mrs Edwards and Mrs Bull said.
Summary of Interview.
On 21 June 1931, Samuel Bull died. His daughter, Mrs Edwards,
came to live with her widowed mother in August 1931, as did also
her husband and five children.
The first experience occurred after three of the children, who had
previously been sleeping in the grandmother's bedroom, had been
moved to a room downstairs because one, or perhaps two, of the
children had got influenza. The children had been at least a fort-
night downstairs before they experienced anything unusual. It was
when Mary, a girl who will be 14 next June, was down with in-
fluenza—and she was the last of the children to catch it—that the
ghost was first seen by Mrs Edwards and Mary. It was shortly
afterwards that Mrs Edwards and the grandson, James Bull, aged
21, saw the apparition together. Mrs Bull, when she heard that Mrs
Edwards and Mary had seen the apparition, said to Mrs Edwards
that she had seen it before.
Mrs Edwards said that the date when Mary was ill could be ascer-
tained by the Vicar, as be could find out when Mary was absent
from school.
When Mrs Edwards and James Bull saw the figure on the same
occasion, Mrs Edwards, as soon as she saw it, told him that she was
seeing it.
Mrs Edwards said that all the members of the family, including
her husband, had seen the figure.
The figure appears to be quite life-like to Mrs Edwards. It does
not glide, but walk, and seems solid. She spontaneously described
the appearance of the hands and knuckles, her statement agreeing
with the one reported by the Vicar under question 4 above.
Mrs Edwards said that when the appearances began she was more
frightened than the children.
After describing the feeling of restlessness and expectancy that
precedes her visions of the figure, Mrs Edwards added that after
the ghost has disappeared she feels more composed.
Mrs Bull said that she had twice felt the hand of the ghost on her
brow. It felt cold. She also said that she had heard the ghost call
her " Jane " once.
October 1932 Case of Haunting at Ramsbury, Wilts 303
Questioned as to whether any members of the family had ever
had any experiences of a psychical kind, Mrs Edwards said that her
father, Samuel Bull, had had a premonition of the death of one of
his sons, who died as a prisoner of war at Mons. She gave details
of her father's premonition, which, however, it is not necessary to
reproduce here.
When asked about the duration of the appearances, Mrs Edwards
said that on one occasion the figure must have been visible for half-
an-hour continuously.
Mrs Edwards was a good witness. She answered the questions
put to her simply, naturally, readily and briefly.
The interview ended at about 3.40 p.m.
The account of the interview with Admiral Hyde Parker and Mr
Hackett, and the account of the interview with Mrs Edwards and
Mrs Bull, were written out by Mr Piddington on 15 April 1932, and
are based on memoranda that he made at the time.
The Vicar undertook to seek an opportunity of interrogating the
husband, Mr Edwards, later, on which any excitement that the inter-
view with Mrs Edwards might have caused had died down.
On 31 May 1932, the Vicar wrote to Mr Piddington as follows :
" Thank you for your letter. I did not hurry to obtain the signa-
tures to this statement, first because you advised me not to hurry,
and secondly because I thought that it would be a further test of
some value if I allowed a considerable time to elapse before returning
to the subject with the family, as it seemed to me that memory was
likely to be less stable in regard to a mere statement, especially a
false statement, than it would be in regard to an actual experience.
Moreover, the aged widow has been extremely ill lately—her
'
passing '
is imminent—and it was hardly seemly to press the family
at such a time.
However, since receiving your letter I have watched for an oppor-
tunity, and it came to-day, when the husband happened to be at
home.
I had the statement with me, and was able, quite naturally, to
open the subject.
Every question was answered as naturally as before and with as
much conviction and appearance of truthfulness. Both Mrs Edwards
and her husband were perfectly ready and willing to sign the state-
ment, which I read over to them before the signing.
I regret that the signatures are not in ink. My own pen stubbornly
Tefused to serve and the only medium they could provide was a
stumpy pencil.
Nothing has happened in the new home. . . .
(Signed) Geo. H. Hackett."
304 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1932
The following is endorsed on the back of the Vicar's report :
" The following is the signature of Mrs Edwards (referred to in
the foregoing) and also of Mr Edwards her husband, testifying to the
correctness of the statement. The whole statement was read to them
immediately before signing.
(Signed) Mary Jane Edwards.
Henry John Edwards.
These signatures were obtained in the house of Mrs Edwards, and
are in pencil because they had no ink in the house at the time.
The signatures were made in my presence, to-day, May 31st 1932.
(Signed) Geo. H. Hackett,
Vicar of Ramsbury."
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF TESTIMONY.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir,—Your correspondent (Journal, xxvii. 278) alleges that the
experimental sittings by Mr Besterman " yield no results whatever
as to the investigation of the most '
favourable conditions for ob-
servation '
which was their avowed object." His ground for this
view is that " the procedure at all these sittings was identical."
Apparently his thought is that the conditions of some of the experi-
ments should have been " most favourable " and of others less
favourable for observation, and that the results of questioning after
these respectively should have been compared. But, as I under-
stand it, Mr Besterman wished to see what the answers would be
relative to a set of experiments uniformly under the " most favour-
able conditions for observation " compared with the mass of re-
ported experiments with persons actually claiming to produce super-
normal physical phenomena. Let B stand for the Besterman experi-
ments, X for the stock sittings with physical mediums, and make a
few of the comparisons possible. (1) B sitters in advance notified by
a letter to expect no supernormal phenomena ; X sitters most com-
monly incited in advance to expect supernormal phenomena. (2) B
sittings prefaced by a warning that that " medium " is not a real
one, and a statement expressly intended to put sitters on their guard
to observe critically ; X sitters met at the start by the assumption
that the medium is a real one, and usually subjected to a barrage of
remarks from medium and presumed spirit control calculated (in-
tentionally or not) to lull their suspicions and put them in an un-
critical frame of mine. (3) B sitters expressly told that their attention
is to be confined to the what, to the exclusion of the how ; X sitters
October 1932 Correspondence 305
in duty bound to have their attention divided between the what and
the how. (4) B sittings but 25 minutes long, not long enough seriously
to enfeeble the sitters' powers of attention ; X sittings usually two
hours long, often much longer. (5) B sittings proceed to phenomena
at once ; in X sittings often phenomena do not occur for half an
hour, an hour, or more, when already the threshold of attention is
lowered. (6) In B sittings abstention from any misleading suggest-
ions, with one exception ; in X sittings full latitude for misleading
suggestions. (7) In B sittings the phenomena (acts) comparatively
few ; in X sittings the phenomena (including the acts of the medium
and such of others as must be taken into account) probably aver-
aging twenty times as many. (8) In B sittings some of the most im-
portant phenomena taking place in full light ; in X sittings all the
important phenomena usually occurring in darkness or bad light.
These points will be enough. Now if under these comparatively
" most favourable conditions for observation " all the sitters forget
more or less of what occurred and many of them observe or remem-
ber things otherwise than as they occurred, it is certain that under
less favourable conditions for observation—those of the ordinary
sitting—things will be observed and reported not in better but in
still more peccable fashion. Is it of no " possible interest ", when
we read the reports of Tom, Dick or Harry on what he saw and heard
at a sitting for teleplasm, or materialisation, or slate-writing, to
know that with most people the bodily senses can be deceived, and
that the memory will fail to record some essential facts and will
record others in muddled or quite erroneous fashion ?
It is not uncommon to read that in a particular experiment with a
physical medium one or two persons claim to have observed an
incriminating or suspicious act, while all the others present did not
see it and express their disbelief in its occurrence, although the
light was poor and both particular skill and a particular location
were the requisites for observing the disputed act. Readers may be
" amazed ", but is it of no " possible interest " and of no value to
learn that in an experimental test where we know exactly what in
fact was done, out of the details of an incident occurring in full light,
only 4 out of 42 observed its most crucial one, that of pocketing a
card ? The means of producing a fraudulent physical phenomenon
may, and often does, hinge upon an act as apparently trivial as
that. In one case it hinged upon the medium's wiping his nose and
then putting his handkerchief in another pocket than that from which
he had drawn it. Many witnesses failed to note, or to remember,
that act ; it was so commonplace a one that it appeared to be utterly
detached and irrelevant. It is of extreme importance to realise that
nothing which occurs in a physical sitting can be regarded as cer-
tainly irrelevant, and that the most casual and apparently detached
306 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1932
act may be the " wood-pile " in which the " nigger " hides. Pro-
bably many of the sitters in the Besterman experiments took no
pains at all to observe what took place as immediate sequences of
the knock on the door, supposing that " the disturbance " was no
part of the show. The demonstration that people can be so easily
diverted is most important, for exactly so do fraudulent physical
mediums arrange " disturbances ", and lead sitters to think the dis-
turbances are no essential part of the sitting and may be disregarded.
It is so " natural " when one coughs to raise his hand to his mouth
for a moment that thousands of sitters have quite overlooked and
disregarded this act by the medium in the darkness, although the
trivial act was the very key of the mystery.
Sometimes the time factor is an important one in the rendition
of a report. A sitter says that " not five minutes " after he laid his
notes on the table an answer of some length was received on a slate.
If that were so, one would be puzzled to account for it on normal
grounds, for to get possession of one of the notes, find opportunity
to unfold and read it under the edge of the table, restore it folded
to the table and produce the writing unperceived would be expected
to occupy more than five minutes filled with the necessary confusing
little acts and misdirecting utterances. The sitter does not claim
to have timed the occurrence by his watch, nevertheless he is sure
of his " not five minutes ". Is it of no " possible interest ", is it
not rather a piece of valuable information to all who read such
asseverations, that in a case where the elapsed time is exactly known
to have been 19 minutes the estimates of 35 persons ran all the way
from 5 to 40 minutes, and that the preponderant tendency was to
under-estimate rather than to over-estimate ? Eighteen persons
named a figure four or more minutes below the real number, only
seven a figure four or more minutes in excess of it.
I should have expected that all, or at least most, sitters would be
unable to report other than very defectively the objects, details of
objects and their positions during the moment of a flash. But I
regard a demonstration better a hundredfold than an opinion. And
surely every one of the nine " tentative conclusions " has its value.
We have been reading statements by sitters at physical sittings for
a long time and shall probably continue to do so more or less for a
long time to come. Every approach which is made toward a measure-
ment of the average value of sensory impressions under given con-
ditions and of memories, immediate or delayed, of the average
witness, or the average person in a given class of witnesses, is of value
and must be taken into account in our subsequent reading.
There has perhaps never been comprised in such a short space so
brilliant a demonstration of what I might call the divertibility of
the human mind as is to be found in the Crocker report (Bulletin XII,
October 1932 Correspondence 307
Boston S.P.R.). It is a demonstration that even men whose very
profession relates to the presentation of evidence cannot equally
observe diverse phenomena at the same time. The majority were
lawyers, and they were apparently so intent on hearing and remem-
bering what was said that a black object on a background of white,
in good light, was noted by none, and none noted its withdrawal.
Before their eyes took place the acts which indicated theft by a
certain person, and they were none the wiser, but rather the weight
of their testimony tended to incriminate an innocent person. Mr
Besterman's series of experiments does not with such overwhelming
force show that, for instance, in a physical sitting incriminating facts
may visibly happen unnoticed by most or all of the witnesses. But
it is notable as the first attempt in the direction of measuring the
various factors of unreliability in honest testimony under sitting
conditions. I hope that he or others will institute series of experi-
ments in order further to strengthen the correct conclusions and to
rectify any (if there are such) which are wrong, and in order to lead
to further conclusions, by varying the conditions and the phenomena
of the test sittings and by varying the queries. If most readers
should indeed be " amazed " and disgusted by the printing of results
in tabular form, as is intimated, then only totals, percentages of
totals and conclusions might be printed, and the tables could be
mimeographed and thus put into the hands of the real investigators.
I do not think that when the total number of sitters is only 42 any
table by which the average scores of Spiritualists are computed and
compared with the average scores of the non-Spiritualists is of any
particular value, apart from further data regarding the persons who
happen to constitute the two groups. It might be that a larger share
of the Spiritualists than the others were experienced ; it probablv
would be that the Spiritualists willing to take part in such experi-
ments, and at the invitation of the S.P.R. , ranked comparatively
high in critical quality. Dr Hyslop was convinced of spirit communi-
cation, but few could surpass him in the number and precision of his
observations in such a sitting. On the other hand, I have known a
college professor of such a temperament that after scores of experi-
ments with a particular medium he remained blind to the damning
force of indicia which stamped the mediumship as obviouslv spurious
in the eyes of more cautious men even at their first sittings.
Of course, a thing actually observed by one sitter out-weighs the
failure of the nine other sitters to observe it. But it might be
urged that the observation of the one was an illusion. So this has
long been the situation with physical phenomena : certain men whom
I might name attend sittings with one prominent medium after
another, and, if they make no convicting discoveries, yet have the
misfortune, time after time, of witnessing no phenomena which
308 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1932
seem to them genuine, and of observing much in the way of indicia
which seem to them to point to normal causation, while, on the other
hand, certain other persons visit these same mediums and time after
time announce what seem to them supernormal phenomena, and
observe few or no indicia which seem to them suspicious. I, myself,
have the unhappiness to belong to the former class. And the war
goes on, each class charging the other with seeing, remembering,
judging improperly. It is well within the bounds of possibility to
have tested the question which of the two classes is in fact reporting
more nearly in accordance with the objective facts. Let six sittings,
varied as to their phenomena, be carefully rehearsed in advance by
three managers who will be able afterward to vouch for every detail
of what actually occurred, and when and under what conditions.
Let these sittings be attended by, say, a half dozen of the un-
fortunates seldom, if ever, able to testify to the genuineness of
physical performances, and by an equal number of persons who have
testified to the genuineness of physical phenomena and hence have
come into collision with the former class. Then let it be ascertained
by the reports which class has the better score, and by how much.
It would be a most illuminating set of experiments, and I would
gladly offer myself as one of the subjects. But it is doubtful if the
test will ever be made.
Another test I should like to see undertaken. Believing that there
are sitters who, hearing after or even during an experiment the
chatter of others as to what they saw and heard, by suggestion come
to think that they also saw and heard details which they actually
did not themselves experience (and the calling out of statements to
make a dictaphone record may likewise confuse the memories of
some sitters as to what they individually observed), I wish that it
could be scientifically determined whether or not this is so. Let
there be arranged six sittings, with varied, brief, rehearsed and fixed
programs as to phenomena and conditions. Let there be present
nine persons at each sitting—six valid and inexperienced ones and
three who, unknown to the rest, are to play a part. At the first
three sittings let silence be preserved, or at least let no experiments
in misdirection take place. But at the last three let loose the gates
of conversation and let the three in the " plot "—shrewd and
adroit persons acquainted with psychology—occasionally utter a
misdirecting or suggestional remark or question. For instance, if
there appears a rounded patch of mingled light and shadowy
spots (caused by bunching a phosphorescent piece of fabric), one
might say, as if to himself, " Isn't that a face ? ", etc. Then the
reports on the first three sittings could be compared with those on
the last three. But such an interesting psychological experiment
would probably be denounced as one of extreme iniquity.
October 1932 Correspon dence 309
Psychologically it would have been desirable to ascertain to what
extent the omissions of particulars in the " disturbance " as indicated
in Table III, were due to defects of observation and to what extent to
failures to record what was in fact noticed. Some people seem con-
stitutionally unable to give a full account of what they actually
witnessed within a brief period of time, or become able to do so only
after practice. It is very improbable that only four persons noticed
the white card or its pocketing, seeing that Mr Besterman was not
speaking so as to divide attention at the moment. Probably the
object and the act were unmentioned by some from an erroneous
feeling that they were too trivial or detached to deserve mention.
If at the very close of the questionnaire attention had been speci-
fically called again to the incident and sitters had been asked to
think whether or not they had omitted any details of it, presumably
a number of the blanks would have been filled. Of course, it is of
value to demonstrate that the tendency to omit details deemed
unimportant exists, for it follows that, as indeed we have been mor-
ally certain is the case, many witnesses would similarly omit ob-
served details in a sitting for claimed supernormal phenomena
because of the judgment, often fatally erroneous, that they are not
worth recording.
It seems to me that some method of scoring should be devised
which will distinguish between an utterly erroneous answer and no
answer at all. If failure to reply to question 5, asking what object
was touched, presumably because of inability to recollect, ranks as
0, then naming the wrong object ought to be reckoned as a minus.
The witness of a physical sitting who positively misstates the actual
fact of a given movement does much more damage than the witness
who either did not note the fact at all or is silent because uncertain
as to its nature.
A series of specially designed experiments would, I believe, demon-
strate that while an experienced sitter versed in psychology may
undergo an illusion (using the term to include hallucination), he is
very much less likely than a person untaught in both respects to be
unaware that it is an illusion. The remark of the psychologist
(page 386), " I have, however, the impression that this was an optical
illusion," is an illustration. 1
No other sitter experiencing illusion
appears to have made an equivalent remark. In one of my Stuttgart
experiments, as it approached the fifth hour of duration, certain
persons experienced heterogeneous optical hallucinations, partly
1
1 would not be taken as implying that the psychologist, as such, is likely to
see and record more correct details of an objective sitting than other intelligent
men. This particular psychologist seems not to have made a brilliant record,
and I have known psychologists who seemed helpless to protect themselves
against those defects of observation, memory and record about which they
were accustomed to discourse.
310 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1932
due to weariness and partly probably of the nature of after-effects
from long staring at luminous bands and spots. I was one of these,
but found that the effects persisted in whatever direction in the
darkness I looked, so not for a moment doubted their hallucinatory
character. But two other persons, more naive in experience and in
psychological knowledge, were inclined to think that materialisations
were beginning to appear.
Any future series of experiments to the same general end as those
of Mr Besterman, carried out properly and reported from any part
of the world, will be regarded as far from " futile " by more persons
than myself. For example, were there held two sets of test sittings,
one with tricky physical effects, the other for purported mental
mediumship and containing previously rehearsed devices for obtain-
ing hints from sitters and instances of " giving away " facts by sit-
ters, the two sets to be attended by the same cultured witnesses (no
ninnies), and their ability to report justly what occurred in the one
and the other set were compared, an important conclusion to which
some of us have come might be much strengthened. And if not,
we should like to know it.
ours, etc.,
^yALTER pRANKLIN Prince.
REVIEWS.
Georg Wunderle, Um Konnersreuth. 8vo, pp. iv. 65. Abhand-
lungen zur Philosophie und Psychologie der Religion : Wiirz-
burg, Verlag C. J. Becker, 1931. Price Mk. 2.
This little book (65 pages) is a valuable contribution to a much
discussed problem.
Its pieces de resistance are Professor Wunderle's paper on " Die
Stigmatisierte von Konnersreuth," read by him at the Erfurt
Congress of Religious Psychology (June 1930), and Professor Alois
Mager's " Religionspsychologie und die Vorgange in Konnersreuth ":
a paper read at a similar Congress in Vienna eleven months later.
We have further, besides an introduction by Prof. Wunderle, two
chapters, of which the first is devoted to some " echoes " of the Erfurt
paper and the second to a polemical pamphlet of Dr Fritz Gerlich's
published in 1931 and directed against Professors Wunderle and
Mager ; also a correspondence between the latter and Dr Gerlich,
and a " conclusion ".
Professors Wunderle and Mager (the latter of Salzburg University)
are, it should be noted, two Roman Catholic ecclesiastics, Professor
Mager being besides a Benedictine monk. Dr Fritz Gerlich has
published a work in two volumes on Therese Neumann ; he is a
layman and was until recently a Protestant (he is now, we believe, a
Roman Catholic).
October 1932 Reviews 311
That both Professor Wunderle and Professor Mager are believing
Roman Catholics, goes without saying. That they will cheerfully
submit to the verdict of their Church in the matter, when that
verdict has been officially formulated, is equally certain. But mean-
while and whilst ready to see in the stigmatica not only a young girl
of irreproachable behaviour, but also a kindly and pious person of
high merit (Wunderle, p. 14), and in the Konnersreuth facts them-
selves a " religious occurrence " (whatever that may mean exactly),
" authentic, trustworthy, uniform (einheitlich), full of meaning,
impressive " (Mager, p. 37), they are by no means ready to endorse
at once the interpretation put on the " phenomena " by the en-
thusiasts. They plead for more accurate and scientific investiga-
tion and evidently earnestly wish their Church to suspend its judg-
ment and postpone as much as possible an " infallible " verdict.
Here and there we find opinions expressed or hinted at by them
concerning the way in which they are being treated by their op-
ponents. " If," writes Father Mager to Dr Gerlich (p. 43), " Therese
Neumann approves of the way in which Dr Gerlich acts and looks
upon him as her advocate it is certain that Christ does not speak
through her. For nothing contradicts's Christ's spirit more than
that kind of polemic." If Therese Neumann stated, after Dr Gerlich
laid before her Father Mager's letter of 15 May 1931, that she hardly
spoke with him, " this is and remains, objectively speaking, an
untruth, whether uttered in a normal state or in the Zustand der
erhobenen Rulie "
(p. 65). It is permissible to suppose, it should be
noted, that the two learned ecclesiastics would have expressed them-
selves more freely if they had had full liberty to do so. Though we
are not entitled to speak of any concrete moral pressure brought
upon them, their position in the Roman Catholic world in reference
to Konnersreuth is more or less peculiar ;
comparative isolation (at
least in Europe) will perhaps not be too strong a term.
In view of this fact we may surmise that in dealing with such
delicate matters as those referred to in the two passages above quoted
they tried to express themselves as diplomatically as they could. 1
And I confess that when reading Father Mager's paper at the Vienna
Congress, I have the impression that the original paper was on one
or two points more explicit. Still, a characteristic sentence has
remained : "It must be stated most emphatically," Father Mager
writes, " that there can be no question of a scientific verdict as to
the Konnersreuth case, so long as these preliminary investigations
have not been made (p. 39)." Now these " preliminary investiga-
1
Since writing the above I have read a masterly article of Professor
Wunderle's in the Wurzburg Frdnkisches Volksblatt which he kindly sent me.
I acknowledge with pleasure that the language of that article as well as some
extracts quoted from a paper of Father Mager's are sufficiently explicit.
312 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1932
tions " should, in the Salzburg Professor's opinion, deal with Therese
Neumann's state of consciousness during, between and after the
ecstatic visions ; with the nature of the ecstatics themselves ; with
the alleged talking by her in languages no more spoken to-day ; with
the apparent non-absorption by her of any food. And though in
Father Mager's opinion, there remains at Konnersreuth a residuum
of facts inexplicable by what we know to-day of causality, natural,
nay pathological factors, take part in what occurs there (p. 37). And
the very nature of the voyante's illness and of the accident which
caused that illness has not been thoroughly cleared up (p. 39).
j
As to the " phenomenon " which has perhaps most contributed
to^Therese Neumann's world-wide celebrity, though Dr Wunderle
is undoubtedly much impressed by her stigmata, he distinctly
says (p. 22) that he is unable simply to ascribe the character of a
" theological miracle " to every kind of stigmatisation, and he admits
the possibility of natural stigmatisation.
Of particular importance for his general position is, however, such
a passage as the following :
" The fact that not only a medical, but
also a psychological investigation of the Konnersreuth case has been
declined is to be deeply regretted. / hold those ivho, directly or in-
directly, have been guilty of such a refusal to have assumed no small
responsibility "
(p. 15 ; the italics are Prof. Wunderle's own).
The case is still sub judice and I am afraid will remain so for a long-
time to come ; nor do I think it likely, alas, that its investigation
will assume the character science is entitled to require. Isolated
instances of objective research there will possibly be ; but what is
called sometimes the " Konnersreuth circle " has now, I am afraid,
closed on Therese Neumann in such a way as almost to preclude the
possibility of a sound investigation worthy of the name.
That, scientifically speaking, truth is on the side of those who fol-
low Prof. Wunderle and Father Mager there is no doubt. But even
from the religious standpoint it seems to me that the critical and
semi-sceptical tendency has scored already an important point. For,
astounding as it may seem, it is a fact that for such people as Dr
Gerlich and Pfarrer Naber (Therese Neumann's confessor) there is
apparently no doubt that it is Christ Himself who speaks through
the stigmatica using her in the state known as erhobener Ruhezustand
as a " terrestrial speaking instrument "
(p. 53).
So firm is on this point Dr Gerlich's conviction that, as he informs
us in his letter to Father Mager printed on pp. 46-61, when he wants
to obtain some enlightenment from the entity speaking through
Therese Neumann in the erhobenen Ruhezustand—" therefore, such
is my conviction, from the Saviour "—and when he is unable to
obtain it himself, he " regularly " applies to Pfarrer Naber in writing
in the following terms :
" Will you be kind enough to request in my
October 1932 Revieivs 313
name the Saviour to confer on me the grace to answer the following
question ... (p. 55)."
On this Professor Wunderle says :
" Not only is the questioning
of the Saviour by Gerlich and Pfarrer Naber utterly antiscientific,
but it is a proceeding equally conflicting with the attitude of the
Church. From the religious standpoint the utilisation of Therese
Neumann as a formal Chistusorakel for the purpose of verification of
scientific researches must be rejected categorically. By so doing the
Konnersreuth affair is placed in a risky position " (the italics are
Professor Wunderle's own).
These lines are the last of this little volume. On the one hand
they are discouraging. On the other they are cheering, as showing
that inside the Roman Cathohc Church itself there are to be found
honest and learned, noble-minded priests in whom deep religious
feeling does not exclude a truly scientific and obj ective attitude and
a sincere regard for truth even in a peculiarly " ticklish " sphere.
We earnestly hope that in spite of so delicate a position both
Professor Wunderle and Professor Mager will be able to continue
their championing of the cause of objective scientific inquiry into
the Konnersreuth problem. I much fear that their efforts may not
prevail in the long run. Their merit will be none the less and they
will deserve—they deserve already—the sympathy and respect of
all honest seekers after truth, whether devout Christians, atheists or
agnostics.
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
Carl Vett, Seltsame Erlebnisse in einem Derwischkloster. 8vo,
pp. 331, 4 ill. Strassburg : Heitz und Co., 1931.
The well-known organiser of the International Psychical Research
Congresses reports in this book on the personal experiences he has
had with the Turkish dervishes in Constantinople. The larger part
of his book consists of a psychological diary of a fortnight's stay in
a Dervish cloister in that town in 1925. Mr Vett entered it not only
and not primarily out of scientific curiosity, but rather because of a
religious desire to come into direct contact with the mysticism of
Islam. He succeeded in entering into such intimate contact with
various typical Dervish sheiks as probably no European had done
before him. And so he is able to give us a highly instructive and
intimate insight into the religious life of this order As the works of
Nicholson and Macdonald on the religion of Islam show, it is full of
reports on and beliefs in parapsychical happenings. It is the chief
merit of Mr Vett's book that he gives us a direct insight into these
things. It contains a mass of reports on telepathic visions, biloca-
tions, levitations, fire-tests, and other phenomena. An investigation
into their reaUty is naturally in no case possible. Nevertheless one
314 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1932
obtains the general impression that, notwithstanding obviously
uncritical credulity, parapsychical phenomena are not rare among
the Muslims.
It is a tragically disappearing world into which Mr Vett was able
to look. While under the old regime it was reckoned a privilege to
belong to the Dervish order, and officials of high standing entered it,
the present-day Turkish government sees only superstition in it,
and in February 1931 a number of the Dervishes who had received
Vett into their community were condemned. European rationalism,
which is no longer in Europe itself the last word in the scientific
outlook, still triumphs in the East. {Translated.)
T. K. Oesterreich.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Revue Metapsychique.
November-December 1931. Dr Eugene Osty and Marcel Osty,
The unknown Powers of Mind over Matter. [To be continued].
—
Abbe G. Lambert, A Case of an anticipatory Vision of Events. [A
trance medium, Mile Simon, foretold the details of a voyage].—E.
Osty, Black Magician. [The word " black " in the title does not
refer to the nature of the magic but to the colour of the magician's
skin. Supernormal incidents observed in Africa by Dr L. Cipriani].
—Ch. Anary-Bourgeois, The Great Problems of Modern Physics.
—
A propos of Ludwig Kahn. [This clairvoyant has been sentenced to
a year's imprisonment owing to financial frauds].
January-February 1932. Dr E. Osty and M. Osty, The unknown
Powers of Mind over Matter. [To be continued].
March-April 1932. Dr E. Osty and M. Osty, The unknown Powers
of Mind over Matter. [Concluded. See the review of this important
report in Proc. S.P.R., xl. 428-36]. —E. Pascal, The Prophecy of the
Monk of Padua.—Jean Tenaille, A propos of the Dowsers. [The
writer is of the opinion that the movements of the dowsing-rod are
not due to the dowser's muscular movements].
May-June 1932. E. Pascal, Natural Somnambulism. [The
writer concludes that somnambulism is a subconscious state charac-
terised by waking amnesia, alternating memory, and suggestibility.
It is, in short, the natural counterpart of artificial hypnosis.]—
Dr E. Osty, Looking Backward. [Dr Osty pays a generous tribute
to the S.P.R. on the occasion of its Jubilee.]—Sir Oliver Lodge,
Memories. [On the same occasion the passages relating to psychical
research in Sir Oliver Lodge's recent autobiography are translated.]
—F. de Briey, To What are due the Movements of the Dowsing-
Rod ? [The writer re-states very lucidly the reasoning which shows
that these movements are due to unconscious muscular action.
Octobkr 1932 Notes on Periodicals 315
Particularly interesting is the demonstration of the absurdity of the
electrical hypothesis, since a current of 10,000 amperes would be
required to produce the movements of the rod under the con-
ditions.]—E. Osty, Contribution to the Psychology of Prejudices
and Beliefs. [Taking as his text various foolish remarks on psychical
research in the press, Dr Osty exposes the partiality and ignorance
of the writers].
July-August 1932. Drj E. Osty, Spontaneous Telepathy and
Experimental Thought-Transference. [To be continued].—C. de
Vesme, The Prophecy of the Monk of Padua.—Sir Oliver Lodge,
Memories. [Concluded.]—Maurice Maire, Chronicle. [This regular
feature covers an even wider range than usual in this issue and is as
witty as always.]
Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science, Ltd'
April 1931. Dr Th. Wereide, The Trance Phenomena of Mrs
Ingeborg. [A summary of the interesting mediumship since described
by Judge Dahl in his book We Are Here].—8. De Brath, The Old
and the New Physics.—F. H. Wood, Evolution and Reincarnation.
—Automatic Writing. [Interesting incidents, unfortunately un-
corroborated].—Invisible Exteriorisation. [A translation of Dr
Osty's preliminary note on his sittings with Rudi Schneider].—Mary
E. Monteith, Psychometry.—E. Bozzano, Animism and Spiritism.
[A translation by Mr De Brath of the writer's answer to M. Sudre's
book].—The London Psychical Laboratory. [The preliminary,
favourable report on Mrs Duncan]. —Mrs R. De Orespigny, The
Margery Mediumship. [A reply to the paper in Proceedings, xxxix.
358 ft. The writer regards the incriminating finger-print as ir-
relevant].
July 1931. The Margery Mediumship. [Report of two " solus
sittings "]. —Sir F. Younghusband, God and the Universe.—H. A.
Hall, The Next Step.—E. B. Gibbes, Simultaneous Automatisms.
[Two interesting cases of apparent cross-correspondences obtained
simultaneously].—E. Bozzano, Animism and Spiritism. [Con-
tinued].
October 1931. The Government of the Universe. [An address by
Mrs Meurig Morris, Controlled by " Power "].—Lieut.-Col. E. F.
Gordon-Tucker, The Complexity of Living Matter.—Mrs Hewat
Mackenzie, Faces on the Wall of Christchurch Cathedral. [The
writer does not regard the resemblance to a face of certain dis-
colourations on the wall in question as accidental].—R. Dimsdale
Stocker, Spiritualism, and the New Naturalism.—H. E. Yerbury,
Invisible Exteriorisation and the Properties of Infra-red Radiations.
—A Remarkable " Book-Test ". [A good book-test obtained
through Mrs Garrett ; it would be interesting to know whether this
316 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1932
was the sitter's first visit to the medium. " Unknown " may only
mean anonymous].—B. Bozzano, Animism and Spiritism. [Con-
tinued].—Mrs Duncan's Mediumship. [The final adverse report,
with comments].—On the Border Line.
January 1932. Dr T. Glen Hamilton, The Mary M. Teleplasm
of Oct. 27, 1929. [The teleplasm in question is one in which there
again appeared at least two flat, miniature faces. It is impossible
to say that these are not genuine, but they bear a most remarkable
resemblance to photographs and to Eva C.'s fraudulent phenomena
of the same type]. —E. B. Gibbes, The Subliminal Self. [A supposed
communication from F. W. H. Myers through the hand of Miss
Cummins].—N. Fraser, Visualised Rhythm-Forms in Music.—S. H.
Hart, Edward Maitland, his Life and Work.—The Voice of Confucius.
[General remarks on the Chinese language].—The Use of the Sub-
conscious Memory by Controls.—The Mediumship of Mrs Murphy
Lydy. [Anonymous notes]. —F. von Reuter, How I obtained the
Direct Voice in my own Circle. —Mrs Champion de Crespigny, The
Efficiency of Consciousness.
April 1932. E. B. Gibbes, Alleged Communications from F. W. H.
Myers. [The writer describes how these communications came to
be obtained through the automatism of Miss Cummins].—-The Road
to Immortality. [Selections from the messages so obtained].—In-
visible Exteriorisation. [A brief account of Dr Osty's sittings with
Rudi Schneider].—Dr Nandor Fodor, Apports : a Plain Statement
of Facts and a Theory. [The genuineness of the phenomena is
throughout taken for granted].—Mrs Hewat Mackenzie, The Value
of Spiritualism to the Individual.—C. de Vesme. The History of
Experimental Spiritualism. [An account by the author of his book
of the same name].—A Book Test at a Distance of 8,000 miles.
[There were really two book-tests, neither of which, however, is
genuinely a book-test in the ordinary sense. In each case the
medium, Mrs Garrett, stated that certain sentiments, etc., would be
found on a specified page, in one case in Heine, in the other in
Rupert Brooke. The location of the book was not given, and thus
the sole evidential point is that these books were in fact in the
sitter's library, which cannot be regarded as very remarkable].
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research, 1932.
With the first issue for 1932 this periodical, called Psychic Research
during 1928-1931, resumes its original title, while retaining its
changed format.
January. Two Cases of Premonition. [Anonymous, no corro-
boration].—Le Livre des Revenants, Part IX. [Further report of the
table sittings held by Mrs Bigelow and others]. —Dr E. Osty, The
Faculty of Supernormal Cognition, Part IV.—H. Carrington, A Case
October 1932 Notes on Periodicals 317
of " Spirit Photography." [The photograph was submitted to the
Kodak Company, who suggested double exposure ; the photograph
is reproduced and confirms this view].—A. Goadby, Conversing
Animals. II. The Hypothesis of Normal Intelligence.
February. A.S.P.E. Annual Meeting, President's Report. [An-
nounces the forthcoming publication of the second volume of the
account of the Margery mediumship, and the appointment of Mr
Brackett K. Thorogood and Dr Ralph G. Adams to investigate this
mediumship].—Dr M. W. Richardson, The Judge's Sign-Manual.
[On the post-mortem thumb-prints of C. S. Hill produced through
Margery's mediumship].—Margery visits Mrs Garrett. [" My
'
incognito '
was strictly preserved." But it is hardly to be supposed
that Margery's appearance is unknown to Mrs Garrett]. —Prof C.
Blacher, Ectoplasmic Threads. [Translated from Zeitschrift fiir
Parapsijchologie, lvii. 461-1].—G. Endore, Jeanne d'Arc. ... A
Short Consideration of the Historicity of her Psychic Powers.
March. B. K. Thorogood, The Sir Oliver Lodge Finger Impres-
sions. [At Margery's sittings thumb-prints were obtained which
were declared by Walter to be those of Sir Obver Lodge. This was
confirmed by ex-Inspector W. T. Bell, who added, " In view of the
circumstances in which many of these impressions were alleged to
have been obtained it is imperative for me to state that even with a
comparatively short association with a person it would be quite a
simple matter to obtain thumb impressions and afterwards to re-
produce these identical replicas by artificial means." There exists
independent confirmation of this statement, which almost entirely
destroys the interest of the fingerprints hitherto obtained through
Margery's mediumship].—W. H. Button, Walter helps to perfect
the Control. [Through the automatic writing of Mrs Sarah Litzel-
mann, Walter asked Mr Button to take the existing lock off an experi-
mental box and to put his own on it. Mr Button procured the key
to the seance-room, put various objects in the box, including a piece
of plasticine, locked the box with a Yale lock (padlock ?) with two
keys, which he kept in his possession. During the sitting Walter
correctly described the contents of the box and made a thumbprint
on the plasticine. This is one of the most interesting incidents
recorded in the Margery mediumship. If the incidents occurred as
described, conspiracy is the only normal explanation].
April. H. Carrington, The Psychology of Genius.—Dr E. Ser-
vadio, Proofs and Counter-proofs concerning Human " Fluid. "
—
Dr G. Walther. An Interesting Case of Bilocation. [Second-hand,
no corroboration.]—H. Carrington, Brief Subject Index of the chief
contents of the British S.P.R. Proceedings. [It is perhaps enough to
say that the index covers less than three pages].
May. Dr E. Osty, Invisible Exteriorisation. [A much abridged
318 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1932
translation of the first part of the report of Dr Osty's recent sittings
with Rudi Schneider].—Dr B. Servadio, Proofs and Counter-proofs
concerning Human " Fluid," II.—D. Gow, Science and the Human
Psyche.—Mrs F. A. Brunke, Case Records. [Four cases, three of
them uncorroborated. In the fourth the writer's husband, motoring
with Mrs Brunke, hears a voice saying " Turn back." He does so,
and a few hours later a dam " went out " killing several hundred
people, including the friends they had intended to visit].
Scientific American, March 1932.
W. F. Prince, Mrs Sinclair's " Mental Radio ". [A preliminary
statement of the report published by Dr Prince as Bulletin XVI of
the Boston S.P.R.]
Psyche, April 1932.
George Lawton, Psychical Researchers as Spiritualist Theologians.
[Mr Lawton, an American, has read widely, but not very deeply, in
the literature of psychical research. Beginning with the almost
explicit assumption that acceptance of the spirit hypothesis is
unscientific, he has no difficulty in showing that practically all
psychical researchers are really theologians ! A typical remark is
the author's complaint (p. 57) that no " avowed materialist " has
ever been president of the S.P.R. He regards this as " very strange",
but has it not occurred to Mr Lawton that if avowed materialists
do not join the Society that is their fault and not ours ?]. —E. J.
Dingwall, The New Witchcraft. [The writer inveighs against the
" half-baked minds " who flock to mediums. He thinks it is idle
to look to " the occultist or the ordinary student of psychical re-
search. They are immersed in their search for life and immortality.
The scientific method is to them a snare and a delusion."]
Th. B.
No. 489.—Vol. XXVII November 1932
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
ON
WEDNESDAY, 30 November 1932, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER WILL BE READ ENTITLED
"SUPERNORMAL PHOTOGRAPHY"
BY
Major W. RAMPLING ROSE
AND
Mr FRED BARLOW
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
320 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1932
NEW MEMBERS.
Ardron, G. H., Thatched House Club, St James's Street, London,
S.W. 1.
Balfour, Dr Margaret I., 14 Sylvan Road, London, S.E. 19.
Cooke, Percival A., 7 Foulser Road, London, S.W. 17.
Eason, Mrs, 163 Wimbledon Park Road, London, S.W. 18.
Evans, S. I. J., 3 Chancery Lane, Port of Spain, Trinidad, B.W.I.
Leigh, Mrs, 10 Belbroughton Road, Oxford.
Librarian, Public Libraries, Rochdale.
Lodge, F. Brodie, The Lawn, Rugby.
Lodge, Mrs F. Brodie, The Lawn, Rugby.
Oliver, C. R., 24 Glazbury Road, London, W. 14.
Palmstierna, Baron, Swedish Legation, 27 Portland Place, London,
W. 1.
Rothschild, Miss Miriam L., 4 Palace Green, London, W. 8.
Stansfield, C. E., 70 Northcourt Avenue, Reading.
Strutt, Hon. Charles, 39 Cadogan Square, London, S.W. 1.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 298th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 28 September 1932, at 3.30 p.m.,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the Chair. There were also present:
The Earl of Balfour, Mr W. R. Bousfield, K.C., Dr William Brown,
Mr L. S. Fletcher, Lord Charles Hope, The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttel-
ton, G.B.E., Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Dr F. C. S. Schiller,
and Mr S. G. Soal ; also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and
Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Fourteen new members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for June 1932 were presented and taken
as read.
PRIVATE MEETINGS.
The Results of Recent Card Experiments.
The 115th Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday,
25 May 1932, at 5.30 p.m., Mr W. H. Salter in the Chair.
Miss Ina Jephson read a paper on " The Results of Recent Card
Experiments", which it is hoped to publish in an early Part of
Proceedings.
A discussion followed in which the Chairman, Mr Soal, Mr Bester-
man, Professor Dodds, and Mr Chant took part.
November 1932 Private Meetings 321
Some Neglected Types of Evidence in Psychical Research.
The 116th Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday,
28 September 1932, at 5.30 p.m., The Hon. Mrs Edith Lyttelton
in the Chair.
Father Herbert Thurston, S.J., read a paper entitled " Some
Neglected Types of Evidence in Psychical Research ".
He had been struck in reading the objections raised by the more
sceptical critics of the phenomena of D. D. Home by the little effort
they seemed to have made to deal with the spiritualistic literature
of the period. While they were quite willing to quote admissions
to the discredit of mediums, evidence tending in the contrary sense
was ignored or ruled out as valueless. Beyond doubt the stories of
marvellous phenomena which filled the spiritualist journals of the
Home period were as a rule negligible. But he would urge that all
this testimony was not equally worthless. Mr Frank Podmore had
largely set the tone of the adverse criticisms of physical phenomena,
especially in the case of Home. But Podmore had concentrated his
fire upon only a few examples and had brushed aside much testimony
that ought not to have been left out of account. An example was
the account in the Norwood News of 22 May 1869 of a sitting at the
house of Mr Enmore Jones. He referred to this because it seemed
to him a very straightforward statement, endorsing from a quite
independent standpoint the type of manifestation so frequently
recorded in Lord Adare's letters. Besides the familiar raps, table
movements and accordion tunes, the account mentioned two less
usual features. One was that of the table oscillating violently
without shaking off a statuette and its glass shade, the other was the
statement that the writer of the description felt the keys of the
accordion moving up and down as it hung over his feet. Podmore
dealt with these types of phenomena in The Newer Spiritualism by
quoting Mr W. M. Wilkinson's account in The Spiritual Magazine
(1861, pp. 359-362). This Podmore dismissed on the ground that
the conditions were not described. He then referred to Sir William
Crookes's experiences of the same kind. These he attributed to
Home's use of " a small musical box, a loop of black silk, and a hook
with a sharp end ".
It seemed to him that this view was quite inadequate. It did not
account for the playing of tunes and for the movement of the
accordion keys, a phenomenon which Podmore stated against the
plain evidence never to have been seen in good light. It did not
account for such descriptions as those left by Serjeant Cox and other
witnesses, who saw the bellows expanding and contracting, heard
the music playing, and felt the powerful tugging. If hallucination
were to be put forward it would involve the hallucination of three
senses. It was also strange that the fact of the accordion playing in
322 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1932
other people's hands was passed over by Mr Podmore without a
word.
A discussion followed in which Mr Trethewy referred to similar-
evidence he had come across in some manuscript records of 1857-
1860.
Mr Besterman said that he still felt inclined to agree with Pod-
more's criticisms in general, but not perhaps in detail. Father
Thurston had not attempted to criticise the narratives he had
quoted. There was no indication in most of these narratives that
notes had been made at the time. Yet these accounts were long and
detailed, referring to a large number of phenomena, the exact nature
and sequence of which it was essential to know. He therefore felt
somewhat sceptical about the reliability of such accounts. Never-
theless they would all feel indebted to Father Thurston for having
again drawn attention to the great difficulties of judging these old
cases.
Dr Dingwall regretted that the speaker had not dealt with Home's
levitations. He felt that these phenomena were now too old to be
capable of being adequately judged. The proper course was to-
study the mediums of to-day and to apply the comparative method.
The Rev. Mr Hayes suggested that the alleged phenomena might
have been hallucinations.
Sir Lawrence Jones, Captain Seton-Karr, Mr Sweeney, Mr Het-
tinger, Mrs Adlercron and Mrs Felkin also took part in the discussion.
OBITUARIES.
G. Lowes Dickinson.
[Goldsworthy Lowes Dickinson died in the early morning of
3 August 1932, in his 70th year. He had been a member of the
Society for over 28 years and a member of Council from 1904 to
1920. His interest in the Society's work never diminished : he was
present at one of the meetings held to celebrate its jubilee. Among
his contributions to the Society's publications are a report of " A
Case of Emergence of a Latent Memory under Hypnosis " (Pro-
ceedings, xxv. 455-467) and a discussion of certain cross-correspond-
ences (Journal, xiv. 10-15).!
I think Lowes Dickinson was the first person who interested me
actively, now a long time ago, in the work of our Society. I know
at least that for more than twenty-five years I have had the inestim-
able advantage of talking over its problems with him and hearing
his acute and stimulating comments. Perhaps they were all the
more stimulating because his mind was so receptive as well as so
critical. Everyone who had the privilege of his friendship, and many
who only heard him speak or only read his beautiful writing, felt the
November 1932 Obituaries 323
beauty of his character, its courage, its gentleness, its freedom.
There were the same qualities in his mind, a mind that could not
stiffen, that was always ready to grow, a faith the more invigorating
because, to paraphrase one of his own great sayings, it lived always
with the dagger of criticism pointed at its heart.
Perhaps it will be of most interest to our members if I try to give
some accoimt of his attitude, as I knew it, to our most burning
questions. I have hesitated more than once in doing this, proud
though I was to have been asked, and for several reasons. I am
afraid of rousing controversy, of treading on sacred ground, and even
more of not giving a true impression of Dickinson's own position.
For this was always changing, even oscillating, though to make the
metaphor truer as well as more complete, it oscillated round a fixed
centre. I have known him doubt, and deeply, the possibility of any
survival, certainly of individual survival, and I have known him, on
the other hand, accept for the time as evidences of real phenomena
things which later on he came to consider delusions or deceptions.
Gradually and both by scrutinising all the evidence he could get hold
of and by listening to those secret intimations of something beyond
which come to a man of his spiritual insight, he arrived, I think,
pretty definitely at a double conclusion, negative and positive.
First, that the physical phenomena as they are usually called
—" the
Witch of Endor business " as we sometimes dubbed them when we
were talking—things like the calling-up by mediums of apparitions
and " ectoplasm", were now really too deeply discredited by in-
cessant fraud and their own inherent vulgarity to be at all credible.
Next, that a large and growing body of evidence did point not only
to ordinary thought-transference from living minds, but also to some-
thing drifting through from another form of mind. I wrote " filter-
ing through " at first, and then I saw that Dickinson would have
criticised this as a most inappropriate metaphor. For what came
through seemed, he thought, always to come mixed up with all kinds
of impurities and puerilities, so that if one swallowed it holus-bolus
there was an end of sound discrimination and genuine science.
I think it was from him I heard a simile which always struck me
as an excellent one, to the effect that the typical outpourings of a
medium were like a dream when one has heard a knock at the door,
with a whole tissue of absurdities woven round it. But it has been a
real knock by someone else for all that. And in connection with this
he leaned more and more to the view that our ordinary way of con-
ceiving mind as split up into individual minds is singularly inadequate
and at bottom unsatisfying to the heart. What he loved " to dream
of ", as he might have put it himself, was that the world of spirit was
like a vast submerged continent of which only the peaks appeared
on this earth as individuals. And however much he might, did,
324 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1932
doubt at times, he always swung back to the sense that " we are
greater than we know " and not destined to go out like the blown
name of a candle. This was the centre I spoke of, and for him it
involved a conviction of the value in the Society's work.
It is comforting to me to remember how keenly interested he was
in the account I gave him, almost the last time I saw him alone, of
Mrs Sidgwick's review, read by Gerald Balfour at our Jubilee. He
had not been able to hear this and I was full of it. It chimed in
very well with his own attitude and I heard, after his death, that he
had spoken of it eagerly to a Cambridge friend.
He knew for some months, as he told another friend, that his life
hung by a thread which might snap at any moment. He faced this
not only with calm but with a noble sense of adventure. I did not
know myself that he knew it, for he was endlessly careful not to
alarm the apprehensive. But he did write and speak to me about
feeling " the great change " drawing near. The first time was in a
letter. " I wonder ", he wrote, " if you feel, Hke me, that what used
to be only words is becoming real ? It is pretty terrible but very
exciting ". I thought when I read this that he was only speaking of
old-age which he felt approaching although in a sense he never lost
touch with youth. But when we talked about it I saw he meant
more, in fact he said he did, and I hope I shall never forget the look
in his eyes as he told me. " It must be such a tremendous change ",
he said. Then, a little later, when talking about a friend who had
recovered from a terrible malady and almost at once forgotten all
about the suffering, I happened to say " I should not wonder if
death was hke that". "Nor should I, my dear", he answered and
he smiled.
F. Melian Stawell.
John William Graham, Litt.D.
The sudden death of J. W. Graham on 17 October 1932, has
deprived the S.P.R. of an old and devoted member. His name
occurs first in the List (of Associates) for December 1884.
He was born, of Quaker parentage on both sides, at Preston,
Lanes., in 1859, and after being educated at the Friends' Schools
at Ackworth and Kendal, passed on to University College, London,
and then to King's College, Cambridge. Here he was one of a group
of ardent young Liberals who, in the 'eighties, created an atmosphere
at King's perhaps more stimulating than was to be found at the time
in any other College. Another of the group, and ultimately the
most distinguished of them, was the late Lowes Dickinson, who was
also, like Graham, keenly interested in psychical research, though he
did not join the Society till later.
November 1932 Obituaries 325
In 1866 Graham became Tutor in Mathematics, History and
Economics at Dalton Hall, Manchester, a Hostel for Men founded by
the Society of Friends, and from 1897 to 1924 he was Principal of
the Hall. He was a man of wide and varied interests and worked
hard at many schemes for social betterment, such as Adult Educa-
tion and Smoke Abatement.
After his retirement from Dalton Hall he became a Fellow and
Lecturer at Woodbrooke, Birmingham, and a year later Professor
of the Principles and History of Quakerism at Swarthmore College,
Pennsylvania. He then travelled for some time in India, lecturing
on the philosophy of religion.
He was prominent and influential in the Society of Friends and an
active member of many of their Committees. Their international
work made a special appeal to him and he travelled and lectured
extensively in Germany of late years to help forward the cause of
international reconciliation. He published a number of books on
politics and religion, of which The Faith of a Quaker (brought out by
the Cambridge University Press soon after the war) is perhaps the
most characteristic.
In 1928 he came back to live in Cambridge and last year was
adopted a prospective Liberal candidate for the borough. He was
now an elderly man, in frail health, and it was only a sense of public
duty that led him to accept this practically hopeless position, for the
opportunities it gave him of publicly advocating his principles.
As a Friend, he held steadfastly to pacifism during the war, as he
had done previously in the Boer war, but his nature was fiery and
pugnacious—qualities derived perhaps from his ancestors on the
Scottish border—and when it came to spiritual fighting with the
forces of evil, he put on his whole armour and went forth unabashed
by " the thunder of the_captains and the shouting ", for he was
generally, of course, on the unpopular side.
Though he had strong convictions, he was not a party man.
Neither as a Liberal nor as a Friend was he bound to the ortho-
doxies of his own side : he would consider each question inde-
pendently on its own merits and not infrequently found himself in
conflict with his friends or colleagues. This, though it sometimes
distressed him greatly, never led to bitterness or estrangement.
The great concern of his life was religion, and he cared about
psychical research chiefly for its possible bearing on religious ques-
tions. He never took a prominent part in the work, but gave much
useful help unobtrusively in inquiries. He was not in the first
instance critical of evidence, for it was his habit to think well of
everybody and he could not easily be persuaded of the ordinary
person's inaccuracies of statement and failures in memory. But
when real flaws were pointed out, he was candid enough to admit
326 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1932
them and to realise that a scientific Society, such as ours, must
insist on a high standard of evidence. Thus, while he personally
attached importance to the psychical experiences that abound in
the early history of the Friends (as in that of other religious bodies,
such as the Franciscans and the Wesleyans), he recognised that they
were rarely, if ever, "evidential". A striking case of this kind,
however, which we owed to his researches, was printed in the
Journal, xiii. 87.
He wrote occasionally in other periodicals on psychical research,
e.g. an interesting article by him on the characteristics of the
" Myers Control " in automatic scripts appeared in the Hibbert
Journal for January 1909. He had been from his Cambridge days a
devoted disciple of Myers : indeed, among his chief heroes in early
life were Euskin, Sidgwick and Myers. He was of the type that
remains faithful to its youthful ideals and enthusiasms, and he was
fortunate in being able to work all his life for the causes that were
nearest to his heart.
Alice Johnson.
L. 1296. CASE.
HALLUCINATORY IMPRESSION OF A EELATIVE'S DEATH.
Mme Adelina de Lara, Cranford, Hook Heath, Woking, a Member
of the Society, writes as follows in a letter dated 28 July 1932 :
" On Monday 25th inst. I awoke about 7.15 a.m. and saw lying at
my side on the pillow, what appeared to be a half-sheet of note paper
with words written on it
—' Mimi was dying, last night '. I repeated
this to myself and the whole thing vanished—When my friend
—
who lives with me—brought in my morning tea I immediately told
her, I also said it was rather strange, as I had only ever known one
'
Mimi '
and (as my friend knew) she was my cousin's (Sir Landon
Ronald's) wife. I did not know if she were ill or well as I have not
seen her for some years, nor have I had occasion to speak or think
of her.—Relations leading busy lives often drift apart— "
[Signed] Adelina de Lara.
The friend mentioned in Mme de Lara's statement corroborates
it in the following terms :
" I hereby testify that the above is a true and correct statement."
[Signed] Pearl Ives.
Lady Ronald committed suicide during the night of 24 July 1932
by taking poison. The death occurred after 10.30 on the evening
of the 24th, but it is not possible to establish the exact time. The
incident thus has the appearance of a deferred telepathic impression.
November 1932 Correspondence 327
COREESPONDENCE.
ON THE EVIDENCE FOR SUPEBNOBMAL OCCURRENCES
IN CLASSICAL ANTIQUITY.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir.—Professor E. R. Dodds says in the March Journal that the
orthodox Greek view was that the dead were safely imprisoned in
Hades. If this statement correctly represents Greek ideas about the
next life, in the classical period, it is not true of those ideas as held
under the Roman Empire. This is clear from the evidence cited by
Ludwig Friedlander in the Sittengeschichte Roms, vol. ii, pp. 623 ff.
According to Friedlander, Dio Cassius says that at great events and
in moments of crisis the dead would rise, sometimes in considerable
numbers, and freely show themselves on this earth. This belief may
throw some light on the obscure passage in St. Matthew's Gospel,
xxvii. 52 f.
Yours, etc., TT , T
H. >sORTHCOTE.
P.S. —Moreover, in Greek thought, " daemons " were human in
origin.
[Prof. Dodds writes :
" I trust my paper did not convey the false
impression that the
1
orthodox '
Hades-theory was the only view
held in later antiquity about the state of the dead : by the time of
Dio Cassius {circa 200 a.d.) the most conflicting opinions on the
subject were current. But there is in any case nothing especially
significant in Dio's mention of apparitions of the dead among other
portents occurring at times of great crisis. The popular belief that
the heroic dead may rise from their graves to protest against acts of
tyranny or foreign aggression is found among many peoples, includ-
ing the Greeks of the classical period. It is exemplified, as Mr
Northcote says, in Matt, xxvii. 52. But it does not imply belief in
spiritualism, i.e. in the possibility of regular communication with the
spirits of individual deceased persons ; the French soldiers who
thought they saw Joan of Arc leading their ranks in the late war were
not spiritualists.
" Mr Northcote's postscript about daemons would be correct if he
had written '
in some Greek thought '. It is true that from an early
time (Hesiod) the heroic dead, who received cultus, were sometimes
described as '
daemons and that later this complimentary epithet
was occasionally extended to the ordinary dead. But the fact has
little bearing on my contention about the difference between Neo-
platonic theurgy and spiritualism : for Iambbchus (de myst. II. 1 f.)
explicitly distinguishes daemons from '
heroes '
and human souls ;
and in many of the utterances quoted by Porphyry the communi-
cator described himself unambiguously as a god."]
328 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1932
NOTES ON SITTINGS.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir, —It is useful for students to compare their experiences, so I
need not apologise for making a few comments on points in the
" Report of some sittings with Valiantine " in a recent issue of
Proceedings.
1. I note that the " Voice " gave Lord Charles Hope the name of
an aunt : but that he did not at once identify this because it was not
the name she was usually called by. I have repeatedly had a similar
experience. Some years ago I was with a highly developed clair-
voyant, Mr Otto von Bourg. I handed him a letter signed with the
initials (only) of an aunt of mine who died before I was born, and after
whom I was named. He gave her surname almost correctly and then
said : "I get Annie ". Her second name was Anne, but she was
never so called in my hearing. He then said :
" Who is Harriet
—
Harry—Henrietta ?
" I said :
" You are not quite right ". "I
get H. so strongly," he rejoined. He put the letter again to his fore-
head and said :
" It is Helen ! She says Helen ".
The name so familiar to me was obtained with difficulty ; the
name I did not associate with her came readily. It is curious that a
few weeks later this medium again gave the name " Annie " alone,
in connection with this aunt.
" On another occasion with the same clairvoyant I asked a ques-
tion. I said :
" Can you tell me anything about a friend, a girl I know
was called after ?
" He promptly gave me one of this girl's names,
but not the name which she is known by, not the name of the friend
in memory of whom she received the name I always called her by.
What can be the psychological reason for this ? Is it, perhaps,
connected with the trick of memory which makes it so difficult some-
times to give a familiar name when one is suddenly asked for it ?
2. Lord Charles Hope writes :
" Before the end of my Valiantine
sittings I felt I could have got this voice to acquiesce in and repeat
any nonsense I cared to suggest ".
This is an experience which can also be corroborated. A friend of
mine, who might have become a very gifted medium if circumstances
had permitted her to cultivate her faculty in this direction, received
through her own writing what claimed to be communications from a
deceased friend. Some remarks which were made impressed me as
affording a clue to the confusions which arise in mediumistic experi-
ences : they suggested to me that the " Control " was conscious of
the possibility of becoming merged in the consciousness of the medium
and then merely giving back her own thought to her. This is not an
unlikely occurrence, it is equally possible that a medium, or Control,
may reflect back the thoughts and suggestions of the sitter.
November 1932 Notes on Sittings 329
It is this contingency that makes it desirable that the sitter should
avoid asking questions, and should keep a passive and receptive
mental attitude.
Some of my most successful sittings have been proxy sittings, in
which, being almost completely ignorant of the conditions of the
person on whose behalf I was acting, I was not liable to affect the
medium by the activity of my own mind.
Yours, etc.,
Helen Alex. Dallas.
ON A SITTING WITH EUDI SCHNEIDER.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir, —In your issue for July Dr Brown's letters to the Times about
his sitting with Rudi Schneider are reprinted. In one of these letters
he refers to publicity unsolicited by him. I should like therefore to
make it clear that not a word concerning the sitting in question was
conveyed to the Press except upon Dr Brown's own initiative.
Yours, etc.,
Harry Price.
REVIEW.
C. E. Bechhoeer Roberts, The Truth about Spiritualism. 8vo,
pp. 280. London : Eyre and Spottiswoode, 1932. Price
8s. 6d. net.
A title beginning " The Truth About ..." does not predispose a
reviewer in favour of a book, but the reader who penetrates beyond
the title of this book will find (to his agreeable surprise, if he is not
already familiar with Mr Bechhofer Roberts's writings) a well-
arranged and well-informed discussion of the strength and weakness
of the different types of evidence on which the case for Spiritualism
rests. The book is primarily intended for readers not very deeply
versed in psychical research : but it is very different from most
" popular " literature on the subject, and there can be few students
so advanced as to derive no profit from it, even if Mr Roberts does
no more than compel them to think of arguments to rebut his con-
clusions.
In the first chapter Mr Roberts, after explaining that, in the
absence of any definition universally acceptable to spiritualist bodies,
he proposed to define as a Spiritualist anyone who, to put it briefly,
accepts survival and constant communication, gives a short account
of how spiritualists are organised, and a description of a typical
spiritualist service. Many, of course, who accept survival and com-
munication hold aloof from all spiritualist organisations, the cause
of abstention being usually their knowledge of the untrustworthiness
330 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1932
of many of the particular phenomena, acceptance of which has, as
shown by Conan Doyle's attacks on the S.P.R., become almost de
fide among organised spiritualists. It is presumably to meet the
case of these abstainers, who have an influence out of all proportion
to their numbers, that Mr Roberts in his definition speaks of " con-
stant communication ", but it might have been well if he had made
their position rather plainer.
Chapters II and III give an interesting summary of spiritualist
practises among the ancients and the more backward races of our
own times, and of the American origins of the modern spiritualist
movement, closing with a good short account of the career of D. D.
Home.
The rest of the book is concerned with the developments of
spiritualism in our own time, ever since in fact, with the foundation
of the Society, the facts on which it relies have been subject to
systematic, continuous, impartial scrutiny. The scale of the book
does not of course permit of Mr Roberts giving full-length portraits
of all the notable mediums of the last 50 years, or a detailed analysis
of all the relevant types of evidence : there are parts of the book
where the subject suffers from excessive compression. But on the
whole the aiithor is to be warmly congratulated on the complete-
ness with which he covers the ground and the judiciousness of his
comments. It would be superfluous, or even offensive, to praise an
author of a book on almost any subject other than psychical re-
search for refraining from asking the reader to accept untrustworthy
evidence, or for choosing instances that were relevant to illustrate
his argument. It is hoped that Mr Roberts will not repudiate a
tribute to the skill he has shown in avoiding pitfalls which have
ensnared so many writers of popular books on this subject.
After two good chapters on the psychology of the sitter and of the
medium, Mr Roberts turns to paraphysical phenomena, mediumistic
and spontaneous. While some of the former have, he considers,
fairly good evidence in their support (e.g. Dr Osty's recent experi-
ments with Rudi Schneider), there is in his opinion no ground for
connecting any tolerably well-established phenomena of this class
with the activities of disembodied spirits. The phenomena (such as
telekinesis), which have the least apparent connection with spirit
agency, are the best evidenced : those with the closest ostensible*
connection (spirit photography and materialisations), the worst.
The necessarily brief accounts of notable physical mediums are
judicious : in fairness, however, to Eusapia Mr Feilding's Naples
sittings with her might have been mentioned.
Mr Roberts holds that some types of spontaneous physical
phenomena are better attested, but that they do not provide any
better grounds for accepting a spiritualist interpretation.
November 1932 Review 331
Passing to the mental phenomena Mr Roberts first discusses pre-
vision and psychometry, which, if genuine, are just as difficult to
explain on a spiritualistic, as on any other hypothesis. In the
chapter on telepathy which follows, one is glad to see due emphasis
laid on the Groningen experiments. As however it is by telepathy
{i.e. telepathy between the living) that the author later on explains
most of the mental phenomena of spiritualism, his argument requires
that he should not only establish the reality of telepathy (which he
most successfully does), but should also indicate the extent and
limits of its operation. In this connection reference might have
been made to the negative results of various " mass " experiments.
In the chapter on trance-mediumship Mr Roberts classifies the
information given by such mediums as Mrs Piper and Mrs Leonard
(information, that is, outside the medium's normal knowledge) into
four groups : A. information known to the sitter, B. information
known to some other person connected with the sitting, C. informa-
tion known to some living person not connected with the sitting,
and D. information apparently known only to some person who has
died. " We shall see ", he goes on, " that the evidence in these groups
varies with the complexity : there is plenty for the first, and a certain
amount for the second, and some perhaps for the third ; while the
fourth requires special investigation if it is to yield any at all".
If we leave the fourth class out of account for the moment, surely
" some perhaps " understates the evidence for the third class. And,
assuming that telepathy from the living was the sole effective cause,
should we on, the basis of the knowledge derived from the spon-
taneous cases and the experiments, be justified in expecting any
success at all in group C ?
The other two stumbling blocks in the way of any exclusively
telepathic explanation are the vivid presentation in trance of a
personality normally unknown to the medium, and the cross-
correspondences. Mr Roberts refers to both, but unfortunately they
require more space for adequate illustration than the size of the book
permits. It is possible to frame a theory which will explain each of
them, more or less, by telepathy, but is it not necessary in doing so to
invent ad hoc a species of telepathy for which there is otherwise
practically no evidence ? Why is it that for its best efforts tele-
pathy between the living should habitually masquerade as communi-
cation from the dead ?
These are questions which some Spiritualists, who may have
followed Mr Roberts's argument up to this point with much approval
and little dissent, might wish to put, in the hope that at some future
time Mr Roberts may deal with it as fully as the complexity of the
problem demands.
W. H. Salter.
332 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1932
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Boston Society for Psychical Research, Bulletin XVII, October 1932.
This Bulletin is entitled Book Reviews and other matters, which
well describes it. It begins with supplementary information con-
nected with a book on Leonard and Soule Experiments in Psychical
Research by Mrs L. W. Allison, published by the Boston Society
some years ago. Then follow the reviews by Dr Prince of seven
books printed in the last seven years. The reviewing of careful
reviews already published would seem a rather profitless occupation.
Dr Prince's own reviews are always careful, so I do not propose to
devote more than a sentence or two to any of these seven. For the
first, How to go to a Medium by E. J. Dingwall, Dr Prince " has
practically nothing but commendation ". The second on Mr Bester-
man's Some Modern Mediums is largely occupied by a defence of the
author against unjustifiable and unfair attacks, especially by foreign
critics. The third book reviewed is Body, Mind and Spirit by
Dr Elwood Worcester (the President of the Boston Society) and
Dr Samuel McComb—an interesting book judging from the review,
but only partially concerned with psychical research. The next
review deals with Mr. Bradley's book . . .And After—the book in
which he expounds the exposure of the medium Valiantine, regarding
whom there has recently been discussion in our Proceedings. The
fifth review—on Fort's Wild Talents pronounces the book, though
amusingly written, as having " no interest for psychic research,
since it has no scientific value whatever". The sixth review deals
with Houdini and Conan Doyle and perhaps needs no further remark
here. The seventh and last book reviewed is Mr Harry Price's Rudi
Schneider. This is followed by a paper by Professor Nils von
Hofsten of Upsala describing two sittings in the course of Mr Price's
series at which the Professor was one of the sitters. This article
should be read in connection with Mr Price's book. Readers of the
article will agree we think that at Professor von Hofsten's two
sittings at any rate the supposed faultless conditions of control were
defective, though he does not claim to have observed any occurrence
of actual trickery.
The Bulletin concludes with " An Hypothesis suggested as a
Possible Aid to the Interpretation and Further Investigation of
Psychical Phenomena " by Professor Hornell Hart of Bryn Mawr
College. All serious attempts well thought out to interpret and
explain psychical phenomena are well worth while, but so far pre-
scribed programmes of investigation seem doomed to failure by the
impossibility of getting the phenomena to occur to order, and I am
afraid that Professor Hornell Hart's well-meant effort may meet
with the same fate. E. M. S.
November 1932 Notes on Periodicals 333
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research, 1932.
June. Joseph Sell, Parapsychical Separations and Infra-red
Waves. [It will perhaps be sufficient to quote the first sentence
of this translation :
" Experimental observations made by Dr E.
Osty, Paris . . . that by the application of certain devices, para-
psychical separations [sic, read " secretions "] of Medium Rudi
Schneider, present in the room in weak form, and consequently not
manifest to us, could be proved, when they were continued within an
infra-red wave area, seems of special interest to us, because an
influence on parapsychic radiation was least to be expected from this
particular kind of way " !]—E. Servadio, Prof. Meyerson, " False
Sciences " and Psychical Research. [A reply to the distinguished
philosopher's criticism of supernormal phenomena].—F. B. Bond,
A New Type of Metapsychic Phenomenon. [Four anonymous
members of the A.S.P.R., sitting with photographic plates enclosed
in light-tight envelopes, obtained spots, linear marks and cloud-
effects on the plates. The Kodak company, who sealed the en-
velopes before the sittings, are said to " certify that such marks as
appear are not due to any normal cause or error in manipulation ".
It would be interesting to have the complete text of their guarantee,
which, as cited, appears to go further than is warranted by the
facts.]—Le Livre des Revenants, Parts X and XL
July. The Margery Mediumship. [It appears that Mr E. E.
Dudley, who had been engaged by the American society to investi-
gate the Margery fingerprints, made certain discoveries reflecting on
their genuineness. Without publishing Mr Dudley's own con-
clusions the Research Committee of the American society now
attempt to refute his charges. Comment is clearly impossible at
present.]—David Gow, The Resources of Trance Mediumship. [An
Account of the mediumship of J. J. Morse.]—Blewett Lee, A Trance
in Court. [Comment on an incident in the action brought by Mrs
Meurig Morris against Associated Newspapers, Ltd.]—Le Livre des
Revenants, Part XII.—W. W. Parker, An interesting Case-Record.
[This " certain, definite, unmistakable, incontrovertible and . . .
scientific proof not alone of the existence of future life but of the
persistence of identity ", is a typical telepathic dream.]
August. William H. Button, The Margery Mediumship. [A
detailed account of the supposedly supernormal removal of objects
from and introduction into sealed boxes.]—F. B. Bond, An Astrono-
mical Script and its Verification.
p, September. William H. Button, The Margery Mediumship. [On
the production of handprints on wax, the prints being apparently
made by a hand turned back, the palm forming the outer side of an
almost complete circle.]—Dr Gerda Walther, Some Experiences con-
334 Journal of Society for Psychical Research November 1932
cerning the human " Aura ". [The writer is herself able to " see
""
auras.]—A. D. Louttit Lang, Sitting with Mrs Garrett. [Not
annotated].—Werner Haag, Psychical Experience of a Russian
Lady. [Uncorroborated].—A Psychical Communication.—Geo.
Croswell Cressey, No Proxy for Survivalism. —Helen A. Dallas, A
Seance with Florence Corner (nee Cook). [An account, apparently
based on contemporary notes, of a sitting in 1903 in which a full-
form materialisation appeared.]
Th. B.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION.
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made
without the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first
issue of the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it
has been contributed on a definite assurance that the Journal is,
as stated on the cover, issued " For private circulation among
Members and Associates only." The Council hope that all Members
and Associates will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining
this privacy.
No. 490.—Vol. XXVII. December 1932
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
WEDNESDAY, 4 January 1933, at 3.30 p.m.
WHEN SHORT PAPERS WILL BE READ ON
"THE EVIDENCE FOR PRECOGNITION"
by H. F. SALTMARSH and on
"AN EXPERIMENT IN
PRECOGNITIVE DREAMS"
by THEODORE BESTERMAN.
A Series of Gramophone Records recently made of a sitting with
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from 4.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
WILL BE HELD IN
ON
Mrs Leonard will be played.
336 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1932
NEW MEMBERS.
Gernon, Mrs De, 16 Cheniston Gardens, London, W.8.
Jones, Ernest, 540 Hempshaw Lane, Stockport.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 299th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.I, on Wednesday, 26 October 1932, at 3.15 p.m., The
Hon. Mes Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E. in the Chair. There were
also present : The Earl of Balfour, Miss Ina Jephson, Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh, Dr F. C. S. Schiller,
and Mr S. G. Soal ; also Mr Theodore Besterman, Librarian and
Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
Miss Nea Walker and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt were co-opted
Members of Council for the year 1932-33.
The Monthly Accounts for July-September 1932, were presented
and taken as read.
PRIVATE MEETING.
A SITTING WITH MRS LEONARD.
The 117th Private Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday,
26 October 1932 at 5.30 p.m., Mrs W. H. Salter in the Chair.
The Rev. W. S. Irving read the complete annotated record of a
sitting with Mrs Leonard.
He said that several papers had been read to the Society or printed
in the Proceedings or Journal in which particular incidents from
sittings with Mrs Leonard, selected either for their exceptional
evidential value, or because they illustrated some point which the
author desired to discuss, had been presented to them detached from
their context. Useful as this method of presentation was, it was
important that they should not fail " to see the wood because of the
trees ", and he proposed therefore to read a paper in which a recent
sitting of his with Mrs Leonard should be reproduced and analysed
from start to finish. It was inevitable in any sitting that some
points should be more impressive than others, and he did not suggest
that all the incidents which he analysed were particularly striking.
The object of the paper was to record in full a sitting which presented
a number of typical incidents, chosen for their illustrative rather
than for their evidential value. Unfortunately such a paper clearly
did not lend itself to summary.
December 1932 A Sitting with Mrs Leonard 337
[It has been filed in the Society's Rooms and can be seen by any
member].
In the discussion which followed the Rev. J. W. Hayes asked
whether in the lecturer's experience the medium's features or actions
during the Personal Control tended to imitate those of the Com-
municator. Mr Irving said that on the whole they did not.
Mr Soal considered that the sitting contained nothing supernormal
and referred to the difficulty of deciding this point without full
knowledge of all the circumstances.
Mr Saltmarsh said that when working on the Warren Elliott
sittings he had carried out control experiments, which produced
results only one-fourth or one-fifth as good as the real sittings.
Dr Dingwall agreed with Mr Soal and said that he found it difficult
to suppose there was anything supernormal whatever in the sitting.
Mr Besterman thought that some of the speakers had failed to
understand the object of the paper, which was merely to present a
typical sitting, without regard to its evidential standing. As the
published evidence showed there would have been no difficulty in
selecting a considerable number of highly evidential incidents, only
of course they would not all occur in the same sitting.
The Chairman, Miss Home, and Mrs Baggally also took part in
the discussion.
CASE
L. 1297. APPARITION NEARLY COINCIDING WITH
A FRIEND'S DEATH.
We have received through Mrs Henry Sidgwick the following account
of what seems to have been an apparition coinciding with a death. It
was seen by the Rev. Prebendary Carlile, the well-known leader of
the Church Army, and the account below is by him and was given to
Mrs Sidgwick on 6 October 1932, when, by the kind arrangement of
Lord Daryngton, she had the opportunity of meeting the Prebendary
and talking over with him the experience.
He states :
" On Sunday morning, 14 February 1932, 1 went to St
Paul's Church, Woking, and after Matins stayed for the Holy Com-
munion. It has always been my habit, when there, if there were over
30 Communicants, to offer to assist with the Cup if desired.
" As there seemed a need on this occasion, I looked round and was
just going to offer to help, when I saw a second clergyman standing
in the chancel, robed ready to assist. Three times I looked, especially
to see whether the stole was black or purple. On his left in the choir
was also a choirman in surplice. After the Celebrant came in to take
the service I looked up again and saw the clergyman kneeling in the
centre at the Communion Rail, apparently waiting till needed. I
then looked again but he had left, and I supposed he was unwell and
had retired to the vestry.
338 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1932
" After the service I asked the verger at the door, why they had
sung a burial hymn that morning. He said it was because the Rev.
Outram Marshall, late secretary of the E.O.U., had just passed away.
" I then went into the vestry to inquire how the other clergyman
was. The Curate and the Churchwardens and the robed choirman
said there was no other clergyman present, nor had any of them seen
one. I asked them and my sisters afterwards, whether I appeared to
be quite normal, and they all said I was quite as usual.
" The priest who had passed away was in the habit of coming;
when well enough, to the weekly Celebration in this church.
" He was an old personal and affectionate friend of mine, and I
was unaware that he had died ; hence possibly this Visibility was
granted to me. I am perfectly certain about what I saw. Similar
appearances have occurred to many others."
Mrs Sidgwick writes : "Mr Carlile told me that this vision is the
only visual experience of a psychical kind that he has ever had,
though he has had strong feelings of the presence of a loved person no
longer in this world. The figure he saw had its back to him so that he
did not see the face, nor did he recognise his friend. In fact when he
went into the vestry to inquire how the clergyman he believed himself
to have seen was, he expected to see, or hear about, a stranger. The
evidence for the experience having been a psychical one depends
therefore on two coincidences difficult to attribute to chance—the
fact that the vision occurred so soon after the death, and the fact that
no one else appears to have seen the stranger clergyman at all. The
experience undoubtedly greatly impressed Prebendary Carlile him-
self and those to whom he related it. An account of it was written
shortly after it occurred and on 18 April I was shown one signed by
himself. I could not however pursue the subject further at that time
as I was ill."
We have verified from other sources that Mr Outram Marshall's
death did occur on 14 February, but do not know the hour.
PRELIMINARY NOTES ON THE TRANCE MEDIUMSHIP
OF FRU INGEBORG KOBER (NEE DAHL).
By Theodore Besterman.
[TJiese notes are extractedfrom afull report of the sittings in question.
This has been filed in the Society's Rooms, where it can be inspected by
any member of the Society. It is not being published at present in the
hope that the Society may have further opportunities for investigating
Fru Ingeborg.]
The circumstances of this case are briefly as follows : Hr Ludvig
Dahl, Byfogd1
of Fredriksstad, a town in south-east Norway, on the
1
The Byfogd combines the functions of Mayor and Judge.
December 1932 Trance Mediumship of Frti Ingeborg Kober 339
east of the Oslo fjord, about 120 miles south of Oslo, and his wife,
lost their son Ludvig (born in 1894) in May 1919, as the result of a
sailing accident, and another son, Kagnar1
(born 1901), in May
1924, from tuberculosis. At the end of 1919 some odd phenomena of
a paraphysical kind led to a table-sitting being held at which it
became apparent that Fru Ingeborg Kober, the only daughter of
Judge and Fru Dahl, was the medium. In the form of raps messages
purporting to emanate from Ludvig were received, and the experi-
ments were repeated. At first, as Fru Ingeborg then lived in another
part of the country, progress was slow. It was not until 1923 that
the table was replaced by the ouija. From that time the communica-
tions became more frequent. Judge Dahl gives an ample selection
from them in his books. 2
Apart from the usual type of spirit communications, the medium-
ship of Fru Ingeborg presents several striking features. The most
remarkable of these are the reading of the contents of sealed enve-
lopes, the giving of booktests from books in another room, and a few
physical phenomena. I was therefore anxious to have sittings with
Fru Ingeborg and approached Judge Dahl through the kind inter-
mediary of Mr I.C. Grondahl, Lecturer in Norwegian at University
College, London. Judge Dahl very kindly invited me to take part in
some sittings, and my wife and I accordingly spent the larger part of
Jidy 1932 in Norway, chiefly in the island of Hanko, in the Oslo
Fjord, on which Judge Dahl has a summer villa.
During the few weeks available to us before we left my wife and I
acquired as much Norwegian as possible, sufficient in my own case
to read Norwegian with the help of a dictionary, to follow easy and
slow conversation, and to follow the messages spelled out on the
ouija. Nevertheless the language difficulties remained serious ; this
fact and the circumstance of our attending the sittings as guests,
decided me to concentrate on those phenomena over which we could
most easily keep effective control : namely, booktests and the read-
ing of sealed envelopes. In the case of the latter it was of course
possible to make the conditions perfect from the beginning. In the
case of the booktests, not knowing what conditions might be im-
posed (none were in fact imposed), and how long it would take to
obtain such a test, as they occur very rarely, we had arranged a
series of progressively stricter tests ; the least strict of these, how-
ever, was sufficiently evidential for the purpose of a preliminary
investigation.
I now proceed to a description of Fru Ingeborg's trance and of the
conditions under which the sittings are held, so far as these came
under our own observation.
1
Ragnar is usually referred to in the sittings as Skat, which means Darling.
2
We are Here (1931), which is based on three Norwegian books.
a2
340 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1032
The sitters take their places about, but not at, a round table, and
sometimes in other parts of the room. The sitter in charge of the
ouija takes his place at the table on the medium's right, and is seated
at right angles to her. In front of him lies the ouija, a rectangular
board measuring ten inches by fourteen inches. Its longer side
faces the sitter. Looked at from his point of view, the upper part of
the board bears, in curved concave rows, the letters of the alphabet,
a few conventional phrases such as Yes, No, All right, etc. The
lower part is blank and on this is laid a small triangular pointer on
three metal discs, which slides smoothly on them over the surface of
the board. The medium is seated at such a distance from the ouija,
facing of course its shorter side, that when she stretches out her
right arm almost to its full extent her hand rests comfortably on the
triangular pointer when it is in the middle of the ouija.
Another of the sitters, not necessarily in the circle, keeps a record
of the proceedings. During the ouija trance the communications are
written down from the dictation of the sitter in charge of the ouija
(the other sitters can see what is being spelled out) ;
during the rest
of the sitting they are taken down in the usual way.
The remaining sitters seat themselves as they please, and the
whole proceedings are quite informal, absolute silence not being
imposed, the lighting conditions being normal, and matters going
forward without fuss or excitement.
The sitters having taken their places, the medium stretches out
her right arm in the manner described, putting her right hand on the
pointer, puts her left elbow on the edge of the table and leans her
head on her left hand, with which she covers her closed eyes. At
several of the sittings either my wife or I sat very near the medium
and at her side, in a position in which her eyes and face could be
observed. We are satisfied that when the medium's right hand is
spelling out messages on the ouija her eyes are in fact closed ; and
even if they were not that the position of her left hand over her eyes
would make anything more than a casual view of the board
impossible.
This fact at once introduces an element of seeming supernor-
mality, since it is clear that the medium's hand is not guided by
sight to the various letters, etc., on the ouija. It is possible that
long-continued practice has made the position of the letters so
familiar to the medium that she can find her way about it unseeing.
I tested this possibility so far as possible during sittings VII, VIII,
IX, by occasionally not replacing the board in position when it was
accidentally moved. Even when the board was lying at a consider-
able angle and several inches from its usual position, the accuracy
with which the letters were pointed out was not affected. But of
course such a test is far too crude to be conclusive. A much more
December 1932 Trance Mediumship of Fru Ingeborg Kober 341
convincing one took place quite by chance in sitting XI. Dr Wereide,
not having the ordinary ouija available, used one made by himself.
This is a square glazed frame, bigger than the board the medium is
accustomed to. The letters on it are differently disposed, and the
medium had not seen it before the sitting, 1
nor did she give more than
a casual glance at it in the few moments before she went into trance.
Nevertheless, the spelling out of the communications was hardly
affected. From time to time the pointer went to the position in
which a given letter would normally have been, but this was excep-
tional. On the whole the letters were pointed out with certainly not
less than 90 per cent, of accuracy. This point clearly deserves
further investigation.
Within a few moments, at most within two or three minutes of
settling herself in position, the medium's breathing becomes irregular
and stertorous, and she appears to fall into a trance. Her right hand
then begins to move the pointer to various letters of the alphabet on
the ouija, thus spelling out messages, answers to questions, etc.
Very occasionally the medium mutters a few words while her hand
continues to move about the board. This part of the sitting I call the
ouija trance.
It continues for a period varying from a few minutes to half-an-
hour or a little more. Then the medium's hand moves slowly away
from the pointer and drops into her lap, as does the other hand ; the
medium opens her eyes, her breathing becomes more normal, and
she begins to speak. Sometimes, however, the transition is extremely
abrupt, the ouija communication being broken off even in the middle
of a sentence, the hand falling suddenly away from the pointer, and
the medium sitting up with a violent start. She is now in a trance
characterised by a species of vocal automatism, and she acts as if
she sees and speaks to the spirits of deceased persons, usually one or
both of her brothers Ludvig and Ragnar. Her eyes move freely, if
somewhat rigidly, but as if focussed on a moving point which usually
remains at a fixed distance just out of her reach. From time to time
she makes tentative gestures, as if reaching out to touch the object,
e.g. one of the brothers, on which her eyes are fixed, and then realising
that it is out of reach. Sometimes the medium appears to see the
object moving away from her, as may be gathered from her gestures
and words, and then her eyes seem to follow it to a more distant
1
1 asked Dr Wereide for a statement on these points, and he writes in reply
:
" I can inform you that the ouija board had not been seen by Mrs Ingeborg
before. Always when she has been here (about 6-7 times in all) she has carried
her own ouija board with her. When I arranged the meeting with you here I
did not know that she would be here at all. The same day you came here she
telephoned and said she had been ordered by Ludvig to come here. I thought
she would take her ouija board with her, but as she did not I must use the
one we had."
342 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1932
point. This usually happens towards the end of this part of the
sitting. From time to time the medium rubs her right shoulder, as if
it was being irritated or touched.
The medium's expression changes rapidly and constantly : joy,
fear, amusement, unhappiness, affection, terror, almost the whole
gamut of emotions, follow each other in rapid succession, and often
express more than the words spoken. This is often so to a surprising
extent : the medium's expression may indicate that she is in extreme
fear, while the words she speaks simultaneously hardly denote more
than a little anxiety. From time to time the medium appears to be
speaking with her brothers more directly, as it were, or intimately,
than usual, and then an expression of great and almost maternal
affection, touching to observe, comes over her face. (It must be
remembered that the brothers died at the ages of 25 and 23 respec-
tively, while the medium is now 37). This stage I call the speaking
trance.
When this is drawing to an end, and for some moments after, the
medium appears terrified : she clutches the hand of whoever is
seated at her right (usually Judge Dahl), strokes his face repeatedly,
then touches the table, the curtain, other nearby objects, pinches
herself, looks round intently, until she is finally reassured and come to
completely. This process is sometimes painful to watch, and was so
particularly in sittings VII, VIII, IX, in which my wife and I had
considerable difficulty in comforting the medium. This intermediate
stage between the speaking trance and the regaining of full conscious-
ness I call the waking trance, though Judge Dahl uses this name for
the whole post-ouija part of the sitting. There is no doubt, however
I think, that the two stages, the speaking and waking trance, are
distinct. During this stage the medium, as will be gathered, gradually
loses " contact " with her brothers and becomes aware of her sur-
roundings. These two processes overlap and it is often difficult to
draw a hard and fast line both at the beginning and at the end of the
waking trance. Further, the speaking trance is sometimes in-
terrupted by a return to ouija communication.
When the medium has come out of trance, she sometimes remains
slightly distracted for a few moments ;
on one occasion she felt
impelled to say a few words which were relevant to what had taken
place in the sitting, but the meaning of which the medium did not
appear to appreciate, for she apparently has no memory of what
occurred during the sitting. A somewhat unusual feature is the fact
that the medium invariably comes out of trance with a very sharp
thirst.
I now turn to the results of the sittings.
The sealed envelopes. There is no need to enlarge on the results of
the experiment with sealed envelopes. The Communicators stated
December 1932 Trance Mediumship of Fru Ingeborg Kober 343
that they had read the contents of three of these, but preferred to
communicate them in my absence. I understand from Judge Dahl
that this promise has been repeated since our departure, but at
present (November 1932) nothing definite has occurred. So further
development may perhaps still be looked for.
The booktest. We had prepared nine newly-bought volumes of
pocket size. On our arrival at the hotel these were placed, as bought,
on a table in our room. But the books were not all continuously on
this table : once or twice a day one or other of the books was taken
away for one purpose or another. We chose for the first test
Fielding's The Adventures of Joseph Andrews (No. CCCXXXIV in
The World's Classics), a book we had both read before some years
ago, but in quite a different edition ;
x
we were careful not to open it,
and consequently had no notion what appeared on any particular
page. We knew, of course, the name of the hero, and the names of
Parson Adams, Fanny, Joseph, and Lady Booby appear on the jacket
of the book. The medium stated afterwards that the book is un-
known to her.
At the first two sittings I had brought a sealed envelope in my
pocket. In view of what the Communicator said at Sitting II (that
they would prefer a letter which was not brought to the sitting) I
substituted Joseph Andrews for the envelope in Sitting IV and on-
wards. I mentioned this fact (without specifying the book) to Judge
Dahl and to Hr Fridtjof Dahl before the beginning of Sitting IV.
After each Sitting we returned to our hotel and put back the book
with the others on the table. Between the placing of the book in
my pocket and the replacing of it on the table it never left my
pocket.
The Communicators first clearly referred to the proposed booktest
in Sitting V, saying :
" With reference to that little booktest, we
must find the opportunity. On such an occasion the conditions must
be the very best, is that not so ? You certainly understand that.
But an attempt we are wining to make."
In Sitting VII the Communicators, in response to my request,
again affirmed their intention to try the booktest. In Sitting VIII
they finally did so. The significant part of the test reads as follows,
omitting repetitions and interpolations :
" I take the first section at
top on page 49, Jos. Joseph. Having put . . . something about his
coat. . . . Something about a man, Jo, Joseph. . . . There was
forty-nine." Page 49 of Joseph Andrews is reproduced and the reader
can judge for himself of the accuracy of the booktest, which I regard
as definitely successful, even allowing for the bibbcal associations
1
This is unfortunately no longer in our possession. Its lay-out was so
different from that of the edition in The World's Classics that different matter
must certainly have appeared on the relevant page.
344 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1932
between the name " Joseph " and the word " coat." It is not
impossible that the medium's " He [Joseph] put something in my
mouth, I choked," which followed, is a reference to the passage in the
next paragraph on the same page.
Ch. 12. Joseph Andrews, &c. 49
who hath been since transported for robbing a hen-
roost) had voluntarily stript off a great coat, his only
garment, at the same time swearing a great oath (for
which he was rebuked by the passengers) 'That he
would rather ride in his shirt all his life, than suffer
a fellow-creature to lie in so miserable a condition.'
Joseph, having put on the great coat, was lifted into
the coach, which now proceeded on its journey. He
declared himself almost dead with the cold, which
gave the man of wit an occasion to ask the lady, if
she could not accommodate him with a dram. She
answered with some resentment, 'She wondered at
his asking her such a question ; but assured him she
never tasted any such thing.'
The lawyer was enquiring into the circumstances of
the robbery, when the coach stopt, and one of the
ruffians putting a pistol in, demanded their money of
the passengers ; who readily gave it them ; and the
lady, in her fright, delivered up a little silver bottle,
of about a half-pint size, which the rogue, clapping it
to his mouth, and drinking her health, declared held
some of the best Nantes he had ever tasted : this the
lady afterwards assured the company was the mistake
of her maid ; for that she had ordered her to fill the
bottle with Hungary Water.
As soon as the fellows were departed, the lawyer,
who had, it seems, a case of pistols in the seat of the
coach, informed the company, that if it had been
day-light, and he could have come at his pistols, he
would not have submitted to the robbery ; he likewise
set forth, that he had often met highwaymen when
he travelled on horseback, but none ever durst attack
him ;
concluding, that if he had not been more afraid
for the lady than for himself, he should not have now
parted with his money so easily.
As wit is generally observed to love to reside in
empty pockets ; so the gentleman, whose ingenuity
we have above remarked, as soon as he had parted
There is no reason why a booktest should not be arranged for in
completely evidential conditions. The conditions of the present
test, which was intended to be the first of a series, were certainly not
completely evidential. They were, however, sufficiently so to make a
supernormal explanation highly probable and to make out a case for
further investigation.
December 1932 Trance Mediumship of Fru Ingeborg Kober 345
Physical phenomenon. The only other attempt at a supernormal
phenomenon that came under our observation, did not succeed.
This was an attempt in Sittings IX and XI to materialise a hair.
It is now mv agreeable duty to acknowledge my indebtedness.
First of all I should like to put on record our great appreciation of Fru
Ingeborg's generosity in devoting the larger part of eleven sittings to
us in twelve days, during more than one of which she was far from
well and worried by the illness of her little girl and boy (a mild
epidemic swept the island during our stay). Her immediate ac-
quiescence in all our proposals, and her most kind attention to us
made our observation of her mediumship more a pleasure than a duty.
All this applies very fully also to Judge and Fru Dahl, who at no
time raised any objections of any kind, gave us a free hand, and
showed us the utmost kindness and hospitality. Frk. Kynning,
Miss Lipscomb, and Hr Fridtjof Dahl, gave us every possible help.
Dr and Fru Wereide kindly allowed us to be present at the sitting at
their home. Lord Charles Hope made a welcome contribution to the
expenses of the journey.
Finally, I must express my great indebtedness to Mr Grondahl.
whose constant help and genial personality greatly contributed to
the success of the sittings.
CORRESPONDENCE.
MASS EXPERIMEXTS IX TELEPATHY.
To the Editor of The Journal.
Sir, —I have read with interest Dr William Brown's comments in
Proceedings (Part 127) on my recent work in experimental telepathy.
I need hardly say that I agree with Dr Brown that such experiments
cannot disprove the existence of a telepathic faculty in the case of
certain rare individuals, though they undoubtedly show that such
individuals are extremely hard to find, since a broadcast appeal fails
to discover them. Dr Brown however appears to me to be under a
misapprehension when he goes on to say that " the negative results
—that is the failures— swamp the successes to such an extent that
the results show nothing of the activity of telepathy "
(p. 80). In
point of fact more than 200 persons continued the experiments over
a period of 15-27 weeks and each individual's record was kept on a
separate card and carefully studied. The advantage of working with
large numbers is that it enables us to discover what is the average
performance in the various tests. Chance alone of course will always
produce a certain percentage of persons whose success is much higher
than this average. Then it is usually possible to arrange further
experiments to test this small minority. But whenever I have
346 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1932
carried out these additional tests I have invariably found that these
apparently " successful " persons in the major test entirely fail to go
on producing successful results, thus demonstrating that in all
probability their original successes were simply examples of the
extreme fluctuations of chance.
I am in entire agreement with Dr Brown that progress is likely to
be made by a more intensive study of individuals who appear to
possess supernormal powers of perception. But where are such in-
dividuals to be found who can produce results under experimental
conditions ? I have yet to meet the individual who can obtain a
mean score exceeding 15-18 with 25 playing cards and then do it
again with another 25 cards. Dr Prince tells me that besides Mrs
Upton Sinclair he does not know of a single person who can demon-
strate experimental telepathy in America. I certainly do not know
of a single person in England who is capable of producing experimen-
tal results that will satisfy a rigorous scientific inquiry. Should any
of your readers believe themselves to be acquainted with anyone who
has an indisputable telepathic gift I should be only too willing to
arrange some experiments with him or her even though he may not
be able to get a score of 15-18 with playing cards.
Yours, etc.,
S. G. Soal.
REVIEWS.
George Lawton, The Drama of Life after Death : A Study of the
Spiritualist Reliyion. 8vo, pp. xxvi. 668, 21 ill. New York :
Henry Holt and Co., 1932. Price $3-75.
This is an astonishing book, baffling not only to the reader and
reviewer but also, it would appear, to the publisher. For on the
wrapper appears this legend :
" This is a study of human beings, not
books ; and of hopes and fears, not theories. For the tragic question,
'
If a man die, shall he live again ?
'
has oppressed the race of men
since the beginning and will to the end. Of the countless solutions of
this riddle, not one offers so realistic and earthy a hereafter as that
described in this book." But this is a wholly inaccurate description
of the contents. Mr Lawton, who is an instructor in philosophy in
the College of the City of New York, has set out to obtain from
spiritualist books, lectures and conversations, a general picture of
the Spiritualist creed : he concerns himself with beliefs and per-
sonalities, not with evidence ; he nowhere discusses survival as an
evidential problem, and he certainly does not offer any " realistic
and earthy hereafter " except in so far as he reproduces and collates
Spiritualist statements. He is not himself a Spiritualist : his atti-
tude is summed up in the paragraph, " All religious systems are
December 1932 Reviews 347
therapeutic, not descriptive, and their vitality depends on the
degree to which they transform, through the imagination, the simple
brute facts of suffering, frustration and death, into something that
will not hurt so much. Now Spiritualism is simply one way among
many others of attempting an adjustment to the problems and
denials of life. Spiritualism is therefore to be accepted or rejected
for the same reasons that we accept or reject other systems of belief
—its capacity of compensating us for our frustrations, releasing our
tensions, and its possession of a sufficient degree of internal agree-
ment to meet our intellectual standards." This is surely not a very
helpful avenue of approach to an examination of Spiritualism, for
it is precisely the claim of Spiritualism to rest on a basis of scientific
evidence that distinguishes it from other religions. It is perhaps due
to Mr Lawton's fundamentally mistaken way of approach that the
contents of this book do not hang together in any sort of sequence.
I find it impossible to discover what Mr Lawton set out to do—except
in isolated sections—and where he supposes, at the end of over 600
pages, that he has arrived.
The first part of the book describes at length the general outline
of Spiritualist beliefs, so far as it is possible for the author to collate
these. There are pages after pages of extracts from writings so
different as Raymond, Alan's Alaine (a recent novelette by an Ameri-
can Spiritualist), and the works of Andrew Jackson Davis. Mr
Lawton admits that there is not much uniformity in Spiritualist
teachings, but he claims to have tried to discover certain main
trends. In this he has certainly succeeded, though at the expense of
more space and energy than many would think necessary, and by
concentrating very largely on American Spiritualism.
Part Two of the book is an examination of Spiritualism as an
organised religious body. Once again the author draws from all
kinds of material—some of it, such as the quotation of an appeal of
Spiritualists to wear " recognition badges," with no fewer than five
illustrations of these, surely of no value whatever—and over 200
pages are given to this subject. Nor, for that matter, is the informa-
tion very accurate ; Mr Lawton has rashly relied too much on Hart-
mann's works of reference and similar unreliable sources. Thus on
page 152 are thrown together as " Psychical Eesearch Societies " all
bodies whose names contain or suggest that purpose, regardless of
what these societies actually stand for ; so that the S.P.R. is made
to rub shoulders with the British College of Psychic Science, the
Society for the Study of Supernormal Pictures, and other hetero-
geneous organisations. And I doubt whether the " Dialectical
Society of London ", even if it were not long defunct, would be claimed
by anybody except Mr Lawton as an English Spiritualist society.
On page 375, the beginning of the third part of his book, the writer
348 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1932
appears at last willing to come to grips with his subject, but once
again the reader will be disappointed. We are told at inordinate
length why many people wish to believe in survival and then Mr
Lawton reverts to such by-paths of psychology as the " Benefits
accruing to Pathological Spiritualists from Communication." On
page 530 he begins to discuss the functions and equipment of
psychical research, but for some reason limits this investigation to
" those researchers only who serve as theologians of the Spiritualist
movement and who are regarded as such by the Spiritualists
"—his
italics—and afterwards declares that
'
' the most obvious and genuine
distinction between the Spiritualist and the researcher is ... a
class or social one. With exceedingly few exceptions psychical
research societies, though perhaps intended to be centres for the
scientific collection and appraisal of evidence, have actually become
a very high type of Spiritualist organisation ;
they are churches for
the spiritual and Spiritualist elect." Mr Lawton devotes his last
hundred or so pages to discussing the contemporary sources of
strength and weakness for the survival of the Spiritualist creed and,
with a large but uneven bibliography, this curiously unsatisfactory
volume ends. I cannot remember opening a book with more interest
or putting one down with a greater sense of disappointment.
C. E. Bechhofer Egberts.
Sir J. Arthur Thomson, Scientific Riddles. 8vo. pp. 384. London :
Williams and Norgate, Ltd., 1932. Price 10s. 6d. net.
Sir J. Arthur Thomson is not a member of the S.P.R. and is one
of the few men of science outside the Society who have taken some
trouble to examine our evidence. Chapters XLII, XLIII and XLIV
of this book are entitled respectively " Is Telepathy a Fact ?
"
" What lies behind Clairvoyance ?
" and " How Explain Crystal-
gazing 1
" Sir Arthur's treatment of the evidence is not at all
unfair on the whole, although he is inclined to charge the S.P.R. with
overlooking normal explanations of some of the phenomena—which
is not the fact. 1
Also, in criticising the evidence for telepathy, he
draws attention—without citing specific instances—to the faintness
of coincidence between the agent's thought and the percipient's
impression. I suspect that he is thinking of some of the vague co-
incidences occurring in a series of experiments, and that he has over-
looked the fact that these vague coincidences form part of a series of
coincidences in which close coincidences are found.
In his Introduction (p. 11) the writer says :
" But the moment we
1
As the author does not state to what particular reports he is referring, it
may be that his criticisms are not directed against evidence published by our
Society—of whose work, by the way, he speaks with respect. But my impres-
sion is that it is the evidence published by the S.P.R. which he has in mind.
December 1032 Reviews 349
ask such questions as : Is there a design in evolution % or Can per-
sonality survive bodily death ? we are beyond science, though not
necessarily off the pathway to Reality or off the way to Truth." Yet
he evidently does not think that it is " beyond science " to ask such a
question as " Is Telepathy a fact ?
" Why, then, should it be
" beyond science " to ask " Can personality survive bodily death ?
"
It seems to me that this latter problem is one to be investigated by
much the same methods as the problem of telepathy. Since he does
not, explicitly at least, take the line that telepathy, if a fact, must
be a physical process, Sir Arthur Thomson appears to be inconsistent
in placing the problem of survival outside the province of science,
while treating the problem of telepathy as one within that province.
All questions of this sort ultimately turn on what particular defini-
tion is given of the word " Science ". Has Sir Arthur Thomson been
consistent in his use of the word ?
J. G. P.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS.
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie, 1932.
January. C. P. van Rossen, A Gentleman-Medium and his Trance-
personalities. [An ironical account of some automatic writings.]
—
Dr D. H. Prins, Jun., Casuality, Determinism and Parapsychology.
—
[W. H. C] Tenhaeff, Commentary on a Case of Clairvoyance. [More
strictly a veridical apparition].
March. H. N. de Fremery, Fifty Years of Psychical Research.
[A full account of the Society's work on the occasion of its jubilee].
Dr D. H. Prins, Jun., Causality and Determinism in Parapsychology.
[Conclusion of the article with a similar title in the January issue].—
Felix Ortt, The Evidential Capacities of Fingerprints. [In an earlier
issue Dr Tenhaeff had maintained that fingerprints do not provide
evidence for survival. This conclusion is traversed].—W. H. C.
Tenhaeff, Spontaneous Paragnosy. [A case of telepathy].—[Dr W.
H. C. Tenhaeff], Magic in Tibet. [To be continued].
May. Dr H. A. C. Denier van der Gon, New Methods in the Field
of Experimental Parapsychology. [On the installation at the
Institut Metapsychique].—J. J. Poortman, The Denial of Causality
in Parapsychology and elsewhere.—Dr P. A. Dietz, Metagraphology
and Psychical Transference.—[Dr W. H. C. Tenhaeff], Magic in
Tibet. [To be continued].
July. H. N. de Fremery, Alexander N. Aksakov. [On the occasion
of the centenary of his birth]. —Annual Report of the Secretary [of
the Dutch S.P.R.]. —J. J. Poortman, Is Parapsychology based on a
Psychophysical Parallelism or on a Theory of Interaction ?
—[Dr
W. H. C. Tenhaeff], Magic in Tibet. [To be continued].
September. Dr P. A. Dietz admitted as a Tutor in Parapsychology
350 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December 1932
at the State University of Leydeu. [This announcement will be
welcomed by all students of psychical research, who will extend to
Dr Dietz their congratulations on this important innovation].
—
Report of the Annual Meeting of the Dutch S.P.R.—Dr P. A. Dietz,
The Seeress of Prevorst. [On Friederike Hauffe].—[Dr W. H. C.
Tenhaeff], Magic in Tibet. [To be concluded].
Quarterly Transactions of the British College of Psychic Science, Ltd.
October 1932. S. De Brath, Dr T. Glen Hamilton's Visit to England.
[Illustrated with further examples of the Mary M. teleplasm].
—
F. H. Wood, Language Tests of Ancient Egypt. [Non-evidential
scripts in phonetic hieroglyphics by a medium called Rosemary].
—
Major F. C. Tyler, Psychometry of Egyptian Ushabti figure. [The
medium concerned is Mrs Humphrey Marten. The statements were
practically all of a non-evidential kind]. —S. De Brath, Prevision.
[General Notes].—Sittings with Mrs Barkel and Mrs Mason.
The Contemporary Review, June 1932.
Dame Edith Lyttelton, The Fiftieth Anniversary of the Society
for Psychical Research. [A general survey of the Society's work,
with hopeful anticipations of the future].
The Hibbert Journal, October 1932.
Professor D. F. Fraser-Harris, The New Era in Psychic Research.
[On Rudi Schneider, largely from personal experience].
The Week-End Review, 10-17 September 1932.
Julian Huxley, Science and Psychical Research. [On Dr Osty's
sittings with Rudi Schneider].
The British Journal of Medical Psychology, September 1932.
D. F. Fraser-Harris, A Psycho-Physiological Explanation of the
so-called Human '
Aura '. [The writer shows that the " aura " is
an after-image when seen with the naked eye and purely subjective
when seen through a Kilner screen].
Th. B.
ERRATA.
Page 175, line 15 from bottom, for " three " read " thirty-three ".
Page 303, line 18, for " later, on which " read " later on, when ".
INDEX TO VOL. XXVII
1931-1932
For the sake of brevity such qualifications as " supposed,"
" alleged," etc., are omitted from this index. It must, however,
be understood that this omission is made solely for brevity, and
does not imply any assertion that the subject-matter of any entry
is in fact real or genuine.
Adler, Alfred, The Pattern of Life,
reviewed, 121-2
Adventure, An, reviewed, 139-40
Antiquity, classical, supernormal
occurrences in, 216-21, 327
Apparition of a relative at the time of
her death, 34-6 ; of a friend about
the time of his death, 337-8
Archiv zur Klarung der Wiinschel-
rutenfrage, reviewed, 246
Aryan Path, The, reviewed, 16
Aura, the human, 197
Automatic writing, 30-2 ; of Miss
Cummins, 136-8
Baldwin, Mrs and Miss, " Oriental
Words in a Dream," 292-3
Balfour, Gerald, Earl of, 58 ; case
contributed by, 297-304
Balfour, Arthur J., Earl of, death of,
24
Bartschat, Frau, 47
Bennett, Sir Ernest, on Sloane, 55
Benson, E. F., " The Psychology of
Testimony," 277-8, 290-1
Besterman, Theodore, 97-101, 102,
109-12, 131, 163, 164, 165, 173,
175, 196, 198, 213, 228, 246, 257,
274, 337 ;
represents Society at
A.S.L.I.B. Conferences, 23, 199;
edits Athens Congress Transac-
tions, 23 ; E. J. Dingwall on, 56 ;
on dowsing, 142, 157-60 ;
" An
Experiment in Long-distance Tele-
pathy," 198, 235-6 ;
experiments
in card-guessing, 1 ;
" Further
Inquiries into the Element of
Chance in Booktests," 107-8, 198 ;
on D. D. Home, 322 ; Mrs Kingsley
on, 55 ; on Karl Kraus, 15 ; R.
Lambert on, 112-3, 118, 168 ; Sir
0. Lodge on, 54, 55 ; on the Mar-
gery cross-correspondences, 42-5 ;
" A Notable Booktest obtained at
a Sitting with Mrs Leonard,"
59-69, 108 ; notes on periodicals
by, 16, 42-5, 70-1, 123-4, 176, 278,
333-4, 349-50 ;
" Preliminary Notes
on the Trance Mediumship of Fru
Ingeborg Kober (nee Dahl)."
338-45 ;
" A Prophecy in Old
Moore's Almanack," 182-3 ;
" The
Psychology of Testimony in rela-
tion to Paraphysical Phenomena,"
198, 235, 277-8, 290-1, 304-10 ; re-
views by, 7-10, 40-2, 118-20, 171 ;
controversv of C. Rothy with,
56-7 ; C. Schroder on, 47 ; E. Ser-
vadio on, 124 ; on Frau Silbert, 14 ;
vote of confidence in, 107.
Billet-reading, 249-54, 291-2
Blavatsky, Mme, 120-1, 138-9, 167
Blind, phantasms of the, 136
Bond, Bligh, on the Margery cross-
correspondences, 42-5
Booktests obtained through Mrs
Leonard, 59-69 ;
through Fru Inge-
borg, 343-4 ; the element of chance
in, 107-8, 198
Botham, Glover, medium, 75, 82-4
Bourg, Otto von, clairvoyant, 328
Bousfield, W. R., review by, 69-70
Bouwens, B. G., " Controls and Pre-
monition," 224-5
352 Index to Vol. XXVII
Brackenbury, Mrs, 196, 197 ; on
poltergeists, 91, 95
Bradley, H. Dermis, . . . And After,
reviewed, 170
Bret, P. Thomas, Precis de Meta-
psychique, reviewed, 225-6
British Journal of Medical Psycho-
logy, The, reviewed, 350
Brittain, Annie, medium, 74-84, 223
Broad, Dr C. D., co-opted member of
Council, 24 ; review by, 84-6
Brown, Dr W., 345-6 ;
" On a Sitting
with Rudi Schneider," 286-9, 329
Bulletin du Conseil de Recherches
Metapsychiques de Belqique, re-
viewed, 32, 46, 103
Bulletin [of the] Boston. Society for
Psychic Research, reviewed, 293-4,
332
Cailliet, Emile, La, Prohibition de
VOcculte, reviewed, 8
Card-guessing, experiments in, 1
Carlile, Bev. Prebendary, apparition
seen by, 337-8
Carnegie United Kingdom Trust,
grant from, 107, 198-9
Carrington, H., on psychical research,
176
Chance, the element of, in booktests,
107-8 ; in telepathy, 130-5, 205-13,
236-41, 345-6
Chesten, Miss, clairvoyant, 175
Clairvoyance, 119 ; mass experiments
in, 21, 197-8 ; in a booktest, 68-9 ;
psychology and, 70-1 ; in dowsing,
142-60 ; in classical antiquity, 219
Classical antiquity, supernormal
occurrences in, 216-21, 327
Congress for Psychical Research,
Fourth International, 2-3, 23-4
;
Fifth, 204
Contemporary Review, The, reviewed,
350
Controls, ancient or unknown, 178-
82 ; and premonition, 224-5
Cook, Florence, medium, 334
Corner, Florence, nee Cook. See
Cook, Florence
Crawford, W. J., defects of his
methods, 130-1
Cross- correspondences, 119 ; the Mar-
gery, 42-5
Cummins, Geraldine, automatist,
136-8, 316
Currey, Mrs, vote of thanks to, 51
Dahl, Ingeborg. See Kober, Inge-
borg.
Dahl, Ludwig, 338, 339, 343, 345;
We are Here, reviewed, 257-9
Dallas, H. A., Human Survival, re-
viewed, 38 ;
" Notes on Sittings,"
328-9
De Brath, Stanley, 58 ; The Physical
Phenomena of Spiritualism, re-
viewed, 38
Dervishes, supernormal phenomena
among the, 313-4
Dessoir, Max, Vom Jenseits der Seele,
reviewed, 118-20
Dickinson, G. Lowes, obituary of,
322-4
Dietz, Dr A. P., appointed tutor in
parapsychology in the University of
Leyden, 349-50
Dingwall, E. J., 34, 168, 322 ; Ghosts
and Spirits in the Ancient World,
reviewed, 10 ; on the Society, 55,
56, 57 ; on Valiantine, 216 ;
" The
Medium Bert Reese," 291-2
Dodds, Prof. E. R., on booktests, 107 ;
" On the Evidence for Super-
normal Occurrences in Classical
Antiquity," 216-21, 327
Dowden, Hester, automatist, 223-4
Dowsing, 173, 259-61, 294 ; towards
a theory of, 142-60 ;
introduction,
142 ; the art of the dowser, 143-6,
152-4 ;
dowsing as a physico-
physiological phenomenon, 147-51,
155-6 ; the psychical and physical
theories, 157-60
Doyle, Sir A. O, The Edge of the Un-
known, reviewed, 9-10 ; attack on
the Society by, 24
Dream, Oriental words in a, 292-3
Driesch, Prof. Hans, on psychical re-
search, 15 ; elected a Vice-Presi-
dent, 51 ; on the Society, 55, 58-9
Duncan, Mrs, medium, 187-90, 197,
315, 316
Ectoplasm, 187-90
Einfiihrung in die neuere Psychologie,
ed. E. Saupe, reviewed, 42
Elliott, Mrs Warren, medium, 4-6,
337
Etudes, reviewed, 103
Fasting, abnormal, 10-11
Feilding, Hon. Everard, review by,
261 ;
" More alleged Occurrences
of the Rope-Trick," 281-6
Index to Vol. XXVII 353
Findlater, J. W., 164
Findlater, J. W., " The Statistical
Method of assessing the Evidential
Value of Mediumistic Communica-
tions," 275-6
Findlay, J. A., 55, 235 ; On the Edge
of the Etheric, reviewed, 244
Fischer, Ottokar, Illustrated Magic,
reviewed, 261
Fisk, G. W., "The Psychology of
Testimony," 291
Fletcher, L. S., co-opted to Council,
106 ;
appointed Hon. Treasurer,
162 ; elected to Council, 194
;
statement by, 234
Ford, Arthur, medium, 175, 229
Forthuny, Pascal, medium, 172
France, Vicomte Henri de, on dows-
ing, 142-60
Frankl, Elisabeth, 119
Fraud in physical phenomena, 112-8,
274
Friedlander, A. A., Telepathie und
Hellschen, 10
Fukurai, T., Clairvoyance and
Thoughtography, reviewed, 87-8
Funfgeld, Dr, on a clairvoyant, 70-1
Garrett, Mrs, 315, 316, 317, 334
Gibbes, Miss E. B., on proof of sur-
vival, 223-4
Goldney, Mrs, 34, 56, 57-8
Goligher, Kathleen, medium, 42
Graham, J. W., obituary of, 324-6
Grondahl, I. C, 339, 345
Grundv, Prof. W. W., case contri-
buted by, 34-6
Haines, Frederick H., Nothing but the
Truth, reviewed, 243-4
Hallucinations, 86-7, 184. 274, 326
Hart, Dr Hornell, on booktests, 108
Haslinger, Prof., and Frau Silbert,
112-8, 167-8
Haunting, 270 ; cases of, 95-7, 196,
297-304
Hayes, Rev. J. W., 164, 337
Hessel, Frau, medium, 12
Hibbert Journal, The, reviewed, 350
Hill, J. Arthur, reviews by, 38-40,
168-9, 243-4
Home, D. D., 269, 321-2
Hope, Lord Charles, co-opted to
Council, 106 ;
" Report on some
Sittings with Valiantine and Phoe-
nix in 1927," 267, 328
Hypnotism and suggestion, 124
Hyslop, Dr Geo. H., on the beliefs of
the members of the American
S.P.R., 123
Ideler, Frau, medium, 72, 228, 230
Impression of a friend's death, 3-4
Indian fortune-teller's trick, an, 37-8
Ingeborg, Fru. See Kober, Inge-
borg
Irving, Rev. W. S., 4-6 ;
sittings with
Mrs Leonard, 59-69, 336-7
Jeans, Sir James, 135
Jephson, Ina, elected to Council, 24 ;
experiments in card-guessing, 1,
21, 25, 197-8, 320 ; review by,
121-2 ;
" An interesting Halluci-
nation," 184
Johnson, Alice, her obituary of J. W.
Graham, 324-6
Jones, L. T. Parry, agent, 126-30
Jones, Sir Lawrence, 178, 268
Journal of the American Society for
Psychical Research (previously
Psychic Research), reviewed, 316-8,
333-4
K., Eugen F., medium, 48
Kahl-Toukkolka, Olga, medium, 257
Kahn, Ludwig, medium, 314
King, Mrs, medium, 100, 101
Kingsiey, Mrs, 55
Klinckowstroem, Graf C. von, on
dowsing, 142-60
Kober, Ingeborg, medium, 47-8,
257-9, 315, 338-45
Kordon-Veri, F., medium, 12, 47, 175,
192, 228, 230, 246
Kraus, Karl, medium, 15
Lafora, Gonzalo R., Don Juan, re-
viewed, 7-8
Lagrange, Mme, medium, 32
Lambert, G. W., 274
Lambert, Rudolf, 71-2 ;
" The Med-
ium Frau Silbert," 112-8, 167-8,
213-4 ; on the Society, 192
Lancet, The, reviewed, 278
Lang, Andrew, 216-7
Lara, Mme Adelina de, hallucinatory
inrpression experienced by, 326
Lawton, George, The Drama of Life
after Death, reviewed, 346-8
Leipziger Illustrirte Zeitung, reviewed,
15
354 Index to Vol. XXVII
Leonard, Mrs Osborne, medium, 5,
59-69, 119, 163-4, 198, 269, 272,
273, 336-7 ;
My Life in Two Worlds,
reviewed, 171, 222
Libert-Chatenay, Dr, on precogni-
tion, 261-2
Litzelmann, Mrs Sarah, automatist,
317
Lodge, Sir Oliver, 23, 33, 52, 126 ;
Demonstrated Survival, reviewed,
38 ; address at the Annual General
Meeting, 53-5 ; Past Years, re-
viewed, 185 ; elected President,
233
London Psychical Laboratory, 17-18
Lourdes cures, the, 165-7
Lowen, Karl, medium, 12
Luce e Ombra, reviewed, 124
Lydy, Mrs Murphy, medium, 316
Lyttelton, Dame Edith, 216, 267 ;
Our Su.perconscious Mind, re-
viewed, 168-9
M., Mary, medium, 316
McDougall, Prof. W., 107
MacGregor, Helen, and Margaret V.
Underbill, The Psychic Faculties,
reviewed, 38
Mager, Henri, Water Diviners, re-
viewed, 259-61
Margery (Mrs. Crandon), medium,
13, 42-5, 315, 317, 333
Marion, Fred, medium, 174
Martin, A. E., Diagnostic Radies-
thesique, reviewed, 259-61
Mass experiment in telepathy and
clairvoyance, 21, 345-6
Mead, G. R. S., 165
Mediums, automatists, etc.
:
Frau Bartschat, 47 ; H. P.
Blavatsky, 120-1, 138-9, 167 ; G.
Botham, 75, 82-4 ; 0. von Bourg,
328 ; A. Brittain, 74-84, 223
Miss Chesten, 175 ; F. Cook,
334; G. Cummins, 136-8, 316;
H. Dowden, 223-4 ; Mrs Duncan,
187-90, 197, 315, 316
Mrs Warren Elliott, 4-6, 337
A. Ford, 175, 229 ; P. Forthuny,
172 ; E. Frankl, 119
Mrs Garrett, 315, 316, 317, 334 ;
K. Goligher, 42
Frau Hessel, 12 ; D. D. Home,
269, 321-2
Frau Ideler, 72, 228, 230
Eugen, F. K., 48; O. Kahl-
Toukholka, 257 ; L. Kahn, 314 ;
Mrs King, 100, 101 ; I. Kober,
47-8, 257-9, 315, 338-45; F.
Kordon-Veri, 12, 47, 175, 192, 228,
230, 246 ; K. Kraus, 15
Mme Lagrange, 32 ; Mrs Leo-
nard, 5, 59-69, 119, 163-4, 198, 269,
272, 273, 336-7 ; S. Litzelmann,
317 ; K. Lowen, 12 ; Mrs M.
Lydy, 316
Mary M., 316; Margery, 13,
42-5, 315, 317, 333; F. Marion,
174; H. Melzer, 11, 14, 72; C.
Mifune, 87 ; M. Moecke, 72, 104 ;
T. Molnar, 47, 175; M. Morris,
180, 315, 333 ; J. J. Morse, 333 ;
Rev. W. S. Moses, 178-82, 269, 272,
273 ; M. Muller, 70-1
I. Nagao, 88 ; T. Neumann, 10-
11, 102, 166-7, 310-3
Stanislawa P., 46, 192, 227 ;
Paleas, 48 ; L. Papp, 47, 175 ;
W. Pboenix, 267 ; Mrs Piper, 31,
119, 178-82
B. Reese, 249-54, 291-2; O. Rei-
mami, 12, 14 ; F. Reissig, 174
;
A. Rothe, 14 ; Frau Rudloff, 47
Frau S., 173 ; O. Schlag, 228 ;
Rudi Schneider, 11, 12, 46, 48,
104, 173, 274, 286-9, 294, 314, 315,
316, 318, 329, 332, 333, 350;
Willy Schneider, 11, 12, 42; M.
Silbert, 12, 14, 46, 112-8, 167-8,
173, 175, 213, 229, 246; Mile
Simon, 314 ; Mrs Upton Sinclair,
293-4, 318 ; J. C. Sloan, 55
Mrs Thompson, 269
G. Valiantine, 170, 216, 267
Wolf, 229
E. Zugun, 228, 229 ; H. Zwiesel-
bauer, 46, 227
Melzer, Heinrich, medium, 11, 14, 72
Mental and physical phenomena, the
relation between, 268-74
Mercure de France, reviewed, 261-2
Mifune, Chizuko, medium, 87
Miles, Clarissa, premonition by, 18-20
Miller, G. R. M., " An Indian Fortune-
Teller's Trick," 37-8
Miracles, 84-6
Mitchell, Dr T. W., Myers Memorial
Lecture, 53, 90, 108, 126, 199 ;
" The Psychology of Testimony,"
290-1
Moecke, Max, medium, 72, 104
Molnar, Tibor, medium, 47, 175
Index to Vol. XXVII 355
Monist, The, reviewed, 69-70
Monistische Monatshejte, reviewed,
246
Monnier, Dr, on the Lourdes cures,
165-7
Moore's, Old, Almanack, a prophecy
in, 182-3
Morgen, Der, reviewed, 15
Morris, Meurig, medium, 180, 315,
333
Morse, J. J., medium, 333
Moscow, a case of haunting in, 95-7
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, medium,
178-82, 269, 272, 273
Muhl, Anita M., Automatic Writing,
reviewed, 30-2
Miiller, Mina, medium, 70-1
Multiple personality, 272, 278
Murphy, Dr Gardner, on experimental
telepathy, 130-5, 207-13, 236-41
Myers Memorial Fund and lecture,
53, 90, 108, 126, 199
Nagao, Ikuko, medium, 88
National Laboratory of Psychical
Research, proposal to amalgamate
with the Society, 25, 34, 54, 57-8
Neumann, Therese, 10-11, 102, 166-7,
310-3
Northcote, Rev. H., on the classical
view of the dead, 327
Oesterreich, T. K., Das Madchen aus
der Fremde, reviewed, 40-1 ; on
psychical research, 42 ; review by,
313-4
Old Moore's Almanack, a prophecy
in, 182-3
Oriental words in a dream, 292-3
Osty, Dr Eugene, on hypnotism, 11,
45 ; on Stanislawa P., 46 ; on Rudi
Schneider, 46, 104, 274
P., Stanislawa, medium, 46, 192, 227
Paleas, medium, 48
Papp, Lajos, medium, 47, 175
Paraffin gloves, 197
Parapsychical and paraphysical phe-
nomena, the relation between,
268-74
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, Count
:
" A Case of Apparent Haunting in
Moscow," 95-7 ; Sir O. Lodge on,
54 ; on the Lourdes cures, 165-7 ;
" Manifestations of the Living, 6-7 ;
notes on periodicals, 10-15, 32,
45-8, 71-2, 102-4, 171-6, 191-2,
227-30, 246, 294 ; review by, 310-3
Personality, multiple, 272, 278
Phantasms of the blind, 136
Phoenix, William, medium, 267
Physical phenomena, 120, 131 ; of
Frau Silbert, the, 112-8 ; in clas-
sical antiquity, 220 ; and mental
phenomena, the relation between,
268- 74 ;
neglected evidence for,
321-2
Piddington, J. G., resigns from the
Council, 194 ; case contributed by,
297-304 ; review by, 348-9
Piper, Mrs, 31, 119, 178-82
Podmore, Frank, on D. D. Home,
321-2
Poltergeist cases, the Society's, 197 ;
phenomena, 11, 91-5, 122, 196,
269- 70
Powles, Lewis C, " Phantasms of the
Blind," 136
Precognition, 185-7, 261-2 ; cases of,
18-20, 47, 182-3; in classical
antiquity, 219 ; and Controls,
224-5
Price, Harry, 288 ;
proposal to amal-
gamate with the Society, 25, 34, 54,
57-8 ;
Regurgitation and the Duncan
Mediumship, reviewed, 187-90 ; on
a sitting with Rudi Schneider, 329
Prince, Dr W. F., 131, 272, 274, 332 ;
on Frau Silbert, 14, 112-8, 168;
elected President of the Society, 23,
50, 199 ; on the Society, 59 ; on
the review of The Enchanted
Boundary, 97-101, 109-11; "A
Sitting with Bert Reese," 249-54,
291-2; on the Sinclair experiments
in telepathy, 293-4
Proof of survival, on the possibility of,
164-5, 222-4, 241-3
Prophecy in Old Moore's Almanack,
a, 182-3
Proxy sittings, 163-4
Psyche, reviewed, 318
Psychic Research [later Journal of the
American Society for Psychical Re-
search, q.v.], reviewed, 42-5, 123,
176
Psychical research and psychology,
69-70, 272 ;
neglected types of
evidence in, 321-2
Psychological Bulletin, reviewed, 124
Psychologische Rundschau, reviewed,
123
356 Index to Vol. XXVII
Psychology and psychical research,
69-70,272; and clairvoyance, 70-1 ;
and poltergeist phenomena, 122; of
testimony, 198, 277-8, 290-1, 304-10
Psychometry, 100, 119
Quarterly Transactions of the British
College of Psychic Science, Ltd., re-
viewed, 315-6, 350
Quercy, Pierre, L'Hallucination, re-
viewed, 86-7
Ramsbury, Wilts., case of haunting
at, 297-304
Raps, 112-7
Reese, Bert, 249-54, 291-2
Regurgitation, the theory of, 187-90
Reimann, Otto, medium, 12, 14
Reissig, Franz, medium, 174
Reviews. Books
:
A. Adler, The Pattern of Life,
121-2 ; An Adventure, 139-40
H. D. Bradley, . . . And After,
170 ; P.T. Bret, Precis de metapsy-
chique, 225-6
E. Cailliet, La prohibition de
Voce tilt e, 8
L. Dahl, We are Here, 257-9 ;
H. A. Dallas, Human Survivals, 38 ;
iS. De Brath, The Physical Phe-
nomena of Spiritualism, 38 ; M.
Dessoir, Vom Jenseits der Seele,
118-20 ; E. J. Dingwall, Ghosts and
Spirits in the Ancient World, 10 ;
Sir A. C. Doyle, The Edge of the Un-
known, 9-10
Einfiihrung in die neuere Psy-
chologic, 42
J. A. Findlay, On the Edge of the
Elheric, 244 ; O. Fischer, Illus-
trated Magic, 261 ; A. A. Fried-
lander, Telepathic und Hellschen,
10 ; T. Fukurai, Clairvoyance and
Thoughtograpihy, 87-8
F. H. Haines, Nothing but the
Truth, 243-4
G. R. Lafora, Don Juan, 7-8;
G. Lawton, The Drama of Life after
Death, 346-8 ; G. O. Leonard, My
Life in Tivo Wcrlds, 171, 222; Sir
O. Lodge, Demonstrated Survival,
38 ; —, Past Years, 185 ; Dame
E. Lyttelton, Our Suimrcouscious
Mind, 168-9
H. MacGregor and M. V. Under-
bill, The Psychic Faculties, 38 ;
H. Mager, Water Diviners, 259-61 ;
A. E. Martin, Diagnostic Radies-
thesique, 259-61 ; A. M. Miihl,
Automatic Writing, 30-2
T. K. Oesterreich, Das Mddchen
aus der Freunde, 40-1
H. Price, Regurgitation and the
Duncan Mediumship, 187-90
P. Quercy, L'Hallucination , 86-7
C. Richet, L'Avenir et la pre-
monition, 185-7 ; C. E. Bechhofcr
Roberts, The Mysterious Madame,
120-1, 138-9, 167 ; —, The Truth
about Spiritualism, 329-31
E. Selous, Thought Transference
(or What ?) in Birds, 190-1 ; E.
Servadio, La Ricerca Psichica, 9 ;
J. F. Snipes, Fifty Years in Psychic
Research, 243-4
Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, The
Mental Phenomena of Spiritualism,
38 ; Sir J. A. Thomson, Scientific
Riddles, 348-9
C. de Vesme, A History of Ex-
perimental Spiritualism, 245 ; C.
Vett, Seltsame Erlebnisse in einem
Derwischkloster, 313-4 ; A. Viatte,
Les sources occultes du Romantisme,
9; P. Villey, The World of the
Blind, 8-9
A. F. Webling, Something Be-
yond, 191 ; C. J. Wright, Miracle
in History and in. Modem Thought,
84-6 ; G. Wunderle, Um Konners-
reuth, 310-3
— Periodicals :
Archiv zur Kldrung der Wiinschel-
rutenfrage, 246 ; The Aryan Path, 16
The British Journal of Medical
Psychology, 350 ; Bulletin du Con-
seil de Recherches Metapsychiques
de Belgique, 32, 46, 103 ; Bulletin
[of the] Boston Society for Psychic
Research, 393-4, 332
The Contemporary Review, 350
Etudes, 103
The Hibbert Journal, 350
Journal of the American Society
for Psychical Research, 316-8, 333-4
The Lancet, 278 ;
Leipziger Illus-
trirte Zeitung, 15 ; Luce e Ombra,
124
Mercure de France, 261-2 ; The
Monist, 69-70 ; Monistische Monat-
shefte, 246 ; Der Morgen, 15
Psyche, 318 ;
Psychic Research,
Index to Vol. XXVII 357
42-5, 123, 176 ;
Psychological Bul-
letin, 124 ;
Psychologische Rund-
schau, 123
Quarterly Transactions of the
British College of Psychic Science,
Ltd., 315-6, 350
Revue Metapsychique, 10-1 1, 45-8,
102-3, 171-3, 294, 314-5
Scientific American, 318
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie,
349-50
The Week-End Review, 350
Zeitschrift fur die gesarnte 'Neur-
ologic und Psychiatric 70-1 ; Zeit-
schriftfur metapsychische Forschung,
13-15, 46-7, 175-6, 246 ;
Zeitschrift
fur Parapsychologie, 11-13, 47-8,
71-2, 104, 173-5, 191-2, 213-4,
227-30
Revue Metapsychique, reviewed, 10-11,
45-8, 102-3, 171-3, 294, 314-5
Richet, Charles, L Avenir et la pre-
monition, reviewed, 185-7 ; on
Therese Neumann, 10-11
Riggall, Dr R. M., on multiple per-
sonality, 278
Roberts, C. E. Bechhofer, 56 ;
" Mme
Kahl-Toukholka : a Correction,"
257 ; The Mysterious Madame, re-
viewed, 120-1, 167 ; on the review,
138-9 ; The Truth about Spiritual-
ism, reviewed, 329-31 ; review by,
346-8
Rope-trick, alleged occurrences of the,
281-6
Rothe, Anna, medium, 14
Rothy, C, controversy with Th. Bes-
terman, 56-7
Rudloff, Frau, 47
S., Frau, medium, 173
Sage, M., death of, 51, 74
Salter, W. H., 50, 138-9, 167, 246 ;
statements at the Annual Meeting,
52-3, 57 ; on poltergeists, 91-5 ;
on booktests, 108 ; reviews by,
120-1, 190-1, 244, 245, 259-61,
329-31 ;
resigns Hon. Treasurer-
ship, 162 ;
" The Relation between
Parapsychical and Paraphysical
Phenomena," 268-74
Salter, Mrs W. H., 50, 163, 195, 216 ;
case contributed by, 3 ; reviews by,
30-2, 86-8, 170, 225-6 ; on book-
tests, 107 ;
" A History of George
Valiantine," 216
Saltmarsh, H. F., 66-7, 163, 337 ;
" On a Series of Sittings," 4-6 ;
co-ojjted to Council, 106 ;
" Is
Proof of Survival Possible ?
"
164-5, 222-4, 241-3, 254-5 ; reviews
by, 185-7, 261-2
Schiller, P. C. S., on psychology and
psychical research, 69-70 ; on
proof of survival, 165
Sch[lag], 0[scar], medium, 228
Schmitz, Dr Robert, on psychical
research, 123
Scientific American, reviewed, 318
Schneider, Rudi, medium, 11, 12, 46,
48, 104, 173, 274, 286-9, 294, 314,
315, 316, 318, 329, 332, 333, 350
, Willy, 11, 12, 42
Schroder, Prof. C, 47
Scott, Sydney C, vote of thanks to,
51
Selous, Edmund, Thought Transfer-
ence (or What ?) in Birds, reviewed,
190-1
Servadio, Emilio, 124 ; La Ricerca
Psichica, reviewed, 9
Sidgwick, Mrs Henry, review by, 185 ;
elected President of Honour, 233 ;
" The Psychology of Testimony,"
290-1 ; notes on periodicals, 293-4,
332 ; case contributed by, 337-8
Silbert, Maria, medium, 12, 14, 46.
112-8, 167-8, 173, 175, 213, 229,
246
Simon, Mile, medium, 314
Sinclair, Mrs Upton, telepathic per-
cipient, 293-4, 318
Sittings, proxy, 163-4
Sloan, John C, medium, 55
Snipes, Joseph F., Fifty Years in
Psychic Research, reviewed, 243-4
Soal, S. 6., 67, 337 ;
experiments in
card-guessing, 1 ; —, in telepathy,
21, 25, 197 ;
" Methods in Experi-
mental Telepathy," 130-5, 236-41 ;
—, answers to, 205-13 ;
" Mass
Experiments in Telepathy," 345-6
Society for Psychical Research : Ac-
counts, 26-9, 51, 52-3, 195-6, 200-3,
234, 249, 266, 267, 320, 336
;
amalgamation, projtosal of, 25, 34,
54, 57-8 ; attacks on, 24 ; Council,
annual reports, 17, 20-30, 195-205 ;
—, Committees, election of, 50-1,
233 ; —,
co-optations to, 24, 106 ;
—, elections to, 24 ; —,
meetings,
1, 17, 33, 50-1, 90, 106-7, 162-3
358 Index to Vol. XXVII
194, 232-3, 249, 266-7, 296, 320,
336 ; the crisis in, 192 ;
Jubilee,
the celebration of the, 194, 195,
233, 280-1 ; library, the, 22-3, 107,
198-9 ;
meetings, 1, 34, 74, 90-95,
107-8, 163-5, 178-82, 267-74, 336-7 ;
—, Annual General, 33-4, 52-9,
234-5 ;
Myers Memorial Fund and
Lecture, 53, 90, 108, 126, 199;
obituary, 24, 51, 74, 199, 322-6;
President, election of, 23, 50, 199,
233 ;
publications, 1-2, 25, 30,
162 ;
Treasurer, change of, 162
Spiritualism, 329-31, 346-8
Statistical method, the, 275-6
Stawell, P. Melian, her obituary of
G. Lowes Dickinson, 322-4
Strutt, Admiral the Hon. A. C, co-
opted to the Council, 336
Suggestion and hypnotism, 124
Survival, modern science and, 135-6,
349 ;
proof of, 164-5, 222-4, 241-3 ;
in classical antiquity, 221 ; a theory
of, 254-7
Table-tilting, 268-9
Tanagras, Dr A., 198, 235-6
Tchebysheff, Nicholas, a case of
haunting experienced by, 95-7
Telepathy, 118-9, 126-30, 197, 271 ;
in birds, 190-1 ; in a booktest,
68-9 ; in classical antiquity, 218-9 ;
deferred, 326 ; at a distance, 3-4,
14, 197, 198, 235-6, 293-4 ; fraudu-
lent, 249-54, 291-2 ;
mass-experi-
ments in, 21, 345-6 ; methods in
experimental, 130-5, 205-13, 236-41
Teleplasm, 187-90
Testimony, the psychology of, 198,
277-8, 290-1, 304-10
Theosophy, 120-1
Thomas, Rev. C. Drayton, 55, 56,
165 ; The Mental Phenomena of
Spiritualism, reviewed, 38 ; on
booktests, 108 ; "A Consideration
of a Series of Proxy Sittings," 163-4;
on the development of mediums, 274
Thomas, E. S., cases contributed by,
74-84, 126-30 ;
" Is Proof of Sur-
vival Possible ?," 222-3, 276-7
Thompson, Mrs, medium, 269
Thomson, Sir J. Arthur, Scientific
Riddles, reviewed, 348-9
Thurston, Father H., " Some Ne-
glected Types of. Evidence in Psy-
chical Research," 321-2
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie, re-
viewed, 349-50
Trethewy, A. W., 164, 322 ;
" Per-
sonalities of Controls and Com-
municators bearing Ancient or Un-
known Names," 178-82
Tyrrell, G. N. M., "A Theory of
Survival," 254-7
Valiantine, George, 170, 216, 267
Vesme, Caesar de, 51 ; A History
of Experimental Spiritualism, re-
viewed, 245
Vett, Carl, Seltsame Erlehnisse in
einem Derwischlcloster, reviewed,
313-4
Viatte, Auguste, Les Sources Occultes
du Romantisme, reviewed, 9
Villey, Pierre, The World of the Blind,
reviewed, 8-9
Wales, Hubert, " Modern Science and
'
Survival'," 135-6
Walker, Nea, co-opted to the Coun-
cil, 336
Walter, Prof. D., and Frau Silbert,
112-8, 167-8
Warcollier, Rene, his experiments in
telepathy, 130-5, 205-7, 236-41
Webling, A F., Something Beyond,
reviewed, 191
Week-End Review, The, reviewed, 350
Wereide, Dr Th., 341
Wilson, S. R. W., reviews by, 191,
257-9
Wolf, medium, 229
WooUey, Dr V. J., 50, 55, 163, 165,
196 ; review by, 189-90 ;
resigna-
tion of, 195 ; on Valiantine, 216
Wright, C. J., Miracle in History and
in Modem Thought, reviewed, 84-6
Wunderle, Georg, Um Konnersreuth,
reviewed, 310-3
Young, P. C, on hypnotism, 124
Zeitschrift fur die gesamte Neurologic
und Psychiatric reviewed, 70-1
Zeitschrift fur metapsychische For-
schung, reviewed, 13-15, 46-7, 175-6,
246
Zeitschriftfur Parapsychologie, 213-4 ;
reviewed, 11-13, 47-8, 71-2, 104,
173-5, 191-2, 227-30
Zugun, Eleonora, medium, 228, 229
Zwieselbauer, Hilda, medium, 46,
227
