{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wanda_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Wanda C NDE 5155","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wanda C NDE 5155  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wanda C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2685 Wanda C NDE 5155  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I get anesthesia whenever I go to the dentist, due to a high level of pain and anxiety. During one particular year, 2004, whenever I would feel myself going under, I would wind up in the same place every time - the hallway outside my old third grade classroom. (This hallway also led to the room where sometimes we were taught music.) The hallway and my classrooms were in the basement of the school, where it was dark and still; that area was isolated from the rest of the school. As I'd drift into sedation, I'd feel a sense of comfort in that dark, still hallway. Until those experiences of sedation at the dentist in 2004, I had never thought about that hallway, either awake or in a dream. It had been thirty years, and yet it felt as familiar as if I had just left there.

One time, under sedation, I drifted back into that familiar hallway, but this time I just kept going further in. I began to see my brother and my sister (who were alive and well). At that time, I was sure they were right there with me and we were all little kids again. Some knowledge came to me and it went like this, 'You have been together and in relationship to each other for eternity. You are bonded, and this will always be. Do not be afraid of losing anyone, as this simply does not happen.' I took it to mean that we may live and die during this life, but we will also live and die again and again - together in different forms. The love between us is eternal. Our selves are eternal. Our bond is eternal. In that moment, I lost all fear, and I began to see my human fear of death and loss as a waste of energy. I woke up to shouting and a breathing mask placed over my face. As far as I know, my heart had not stopped. Only my breathing had stopped; and no one knows for sure for how long this was, as they'd left me alone for some time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   In a dentist office I was given too much anesthesia and apparently stopped breathing for a period of time. When I was revived everyone was all upset and they couldn't understand why I wasn't.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   Not sure.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not sure.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Didn't hear anything. Knowledge just appeared in consciousness.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Comfort, peace, absence of fear.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The knowledge? Awareness? Revelation? that there is no reason at all to fear death, dying, life, the loss of beloved.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wanda_c_nde.html