{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wanda_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Wanda A NDE 4636","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wanda A NDE 4636  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wanda A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2346 Wanda A NDE 4636  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had gastric bypass surgery on April 6, 2004. Surgery was fine, and after recovery, I was sent to my room with no complications. Sometime in the late evening, I started feeling clammy, cold (as if I had an episode of low blood sugar). I asked my sister to call the nurse. My blood sugar at the time was high. I knew something 'different' was happening to me. When you are dying, your body fights death. The feeling was one of desperation. I asked my sister to pray for me because I knew I was dying. I remember saying Amen to all her prayers constantly. I heard the doctor call out orders to give me medications that I recognized as those given to patients who are coding (I am a nurse). The room was full of nurses and I remember my physician, the surgeon, who would talk to me constantly telling me what she was doing. The last thing I remember her telling me was that she had to place a femoral line in order to give me more medications. I remember her telling me I did well.

Then all of a sudden, everyone in the room disappeared and the room was filled with the most beautiful white light, it engulfed everything, and at the same time, the struggle my body was having with death left me. I could only feel overwhelmingly fine, at peace, surrounded by love, the purest love, unconditional total love. I knew I was 'dead' and told God that if it was time for me to go, I would go happy and willing but if He had something else I needed to do, I would go back. Just as soon as I had that thought, everyone reappeared in the room, the nurses, doctors, my sister praying.

I was told I'd be placed in the intensive care unit where I remained for a week. Recovery was very difficult, hard. It took me more than three months to go back to work. I do look forward to crossing over. I have no fear whatsoever.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'April 6-7, 2004'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' severe hypoxia post gastric bypass  After surgery I experienced a severe episode of diabetic ketoacidosis with hypoxia.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I was conscious during the entire process.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was conscious during the entire process.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no sense of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The brightness of the white light cannot be compared to anything I have ever seen or experienced.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The entire room was filled with light, everything in the room disappeared to give room to the light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     Juat the light

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total elation, wellbeing, peace, love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have become more spiritual. Religion has passed to a second level.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Not bounded to ay religion

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have become more spiritual. Religion has passed to a second level.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The change. The view of life from a different perspective, changes in priorities, people become more spiritual, more sensitive towards other people.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my sister immediately and have shared with others when the opportunity appears.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   As I nurse I had to resuscitate clients and several of them impressed me, especially a lady we resuscitated on the floor after coding in the bathroom. She woke up with this huge grin on her face and told us she was hovering over us and explained everything we did to her. Another lady had a really bad heart and had coded several times, her children would not allow her to be a 'no' code. I would sit with her at night and he would tell me of the places she had visited while dead.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As a glimpse into our metamorphosis when our spiritual (energy) abandons our physical body (transport) and enters another dimension.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Definitely real, life changing because - how do you explain to others in words what has been experienced in another dimension when it is all too hard to understand by others who don't know, or haven't experienced.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       My friends have become concerned since I speak of death so freely and unafraid, even looking forward to the day it finally happens. I will never commit suicide, but I look forward to crossing.

  At times I feel very alone, people do not understand how I feel. I try not to talk too much about it because they might think I'm loony. I am trying to certify in Thanatology because I believe death is a natural process and people dying and their family members should have someone to help them both go through the process in the easiest, serene and peaceful way.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wanda_a_nde.html