{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wally_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Wally T NDE 2056","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wally T NDE 2056  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wally T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						504.5  Wally T NDE  2056  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

In the beginning of my experience I was in the helicopter going to the emergency room. I was in and out of consciousness. When I arrived at the hospital, I told the friends that were with me goodbye but they insisted that I stay awake. I could not. I started what seemed to be a bad dream. Full of being turned and twisted in ways I did not want to be in and had no choice in. That part seemed to settle down after a while and I became an observer of a futuristic scene.

There were trucks with shipping containers being unloaded in front of me. The first one opened and automatically began building itself into a large high rise building. With every floor that was completed another one started to build itself on top of the last one. This was done with no humans present. This continued for quite some time. Before the building was up four or five stories there were people starting to work in the lower floors. When the building was thirty or more stories tall, something jammed in the automatic workings of the building. It began to groan under stress, something snapped at the top, and the whole thing began to come down on itself killing everybody inside on the lower floors.

After a few moments, a truck full of (army men) or what seemed to be attackers. Pulled up in front of me and started shooting anyone who was left alive or was a witness to what had happened. I thought I was going to die for sure but nothing happened to me. It was if they never saw me. After a while, another truck pulled up and started all over again doing the same thing. At that point, the scene changed and there was someone with me. It seemed like they were standing to my right but a little to the rear. Not right next to me. I traveled to other dreams. In one, I was trying to buy a car and this other person was always next to me.

They seemed like I had known them a long time and I was not disturbed by their presence there. From that point, I left this plane of the body. It was like coming up through the clouds and into what seemed to be lights all around me moving at the same speed. We were close to each other but at the same time a great distance apart. When I saw the brightest light, it was like looking down a railroad track. The further away these lights were the closer they seemed to be until they became one huge bright light. There was a great lifting of my spirit, that this was my home that I really never left. I don't know how long I stayed there, it seemed like a long time, I started to sense a small voice calling to me. Very quiet but insistent to come to help them. In my heart, I said I would be glad to. The next thing I saw was many different events at many different levels going on as I passed by them going down back to my past body.

The confusing part was it seemed like I was going in reverse, Backwards, like sitting in an old station wagon where the rear seat sits facing backwards, where you can't see anything until it passes you and disappears into the distance. And then I began to smell something that really stunk. And it began to get a lot worse. The smell was revolting. And then I realized it was the ego. The personality! It was at this point I wanted to go back up but it was too late. I found myself in a great deal of pain and back in the body and with a stinky personality. I later found out that because my wife kept praying so hard for me to come back that I could not say no. To this day, we have had major problems because of this. I have seen where our home really is and my wife still wants to accumulate things of the world and believes in success. When I know now that everything you gain here gets left behind.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 12/03/2000  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Surgery-related   Direct head injury    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   The body was in bad shape.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   There was no remembrance of the past or a body.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the light.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Time did not exist.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was not restricted to time. I saw the past, present and future as simultaneous.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was all the other angles like me together going in the same direction. When you look in front of you or in back of you the collection of angles or light beings seem to intensify at a distance.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Seam to be several levels of schools takeing place, like classrooms.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A great weight lifted off. Worry doubt fear guilt were gone.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I was finished with everything.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     More intense.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     More intense.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am very confronting to the point where my relationship with everyone is like a branching of the road for the ones who want to wake up or the ones who want to stay asleep.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     For some time after coming back i could read the Akashic record.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The world I was in does not recognize the physical world.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I gave up telling others because it came off the wrong way, made them more afraid.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I started to understand the reason for Jesus or any great beings coming to this planet.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My total focus now is to wake mankind up to the idea that this world is not our home.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It is ongoing and continues to unfold like a path.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Ask more questions about if we found answers to finding our function on this plane.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wally_t_nde.html