{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wade_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Wade R NDE 20417","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wade R NDE 20417  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wade R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						410  Wade R NDE  20417  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I drowned when I was fourteen years old. According to the witnesses and paramedics, I was clinically dead for over fourteen minutes. I saw myself dead as I was looking down at my body and being joined by other spiritual beings. What happened after that is very difficult to put into words. Words just cannot describe what I saw and felt. I was told it was not my time. I was allowed to see so much. And then I was returned to my body.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    July 16, 1972

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death Was drowned.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt perfect in every way. I communicated with beings (spiritual guides) without talking. Everything happened at an accelerated pace.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Full.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    At first a buzzing sound then everything came into focus. The voices the music the water sounds everything. But in clear definition. Perfect.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     No creatures until after I was returned.  But while I was with the spiritual beings it was in heaven.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I met many beings. Some were new to me but others were from eternities before. The three spirit guides were with me most of the time. They came to me as if they were stars and then developed into those who I have known all my life.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   When the spiritual beings took me to him there was light all around each being was within a glow of light. I was within a glow of light and when we touched each other, the light or glow became as one. All surrounding and warm.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     All five senses worked beyond what they do here.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Wow I felt special and I was loved. I wanted to know or to obtain knowledge. I was given that. I was shown things and told things that were just pure

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     To answer this question I would need to write a book. I was taken to places or locations that were out of this world as we see it. I did not need to interact or try to interact with anyone or try to move objects. Everything was one.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I did not want to return. I was shown why I should.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       From the time of death I was joyful. The worst part was when I was recovering and how Satan was displeased with my return.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      The questionnaire is fine. I just have a difficult time describing what happened.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wade_r_nde.html