{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wade_k_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Wade K Possible NDE 9435","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wade K Possible NDE 9435  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wade K Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE;Probable OBE  						5067 Wade K Possible NDE 9435  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  July 14th (2021) was rough. I slipped into bed about 9:45 PM but found myself listless, rolling into and out of sleep. For every hour of the clock, I logged ten minutes of sleep. Something was off, and I couldn’t explain why. I just felt it. I wasn’t good. It was a fidgety night. Morning light brought no comfort.

  The thought of calling in sick tempted me, but I noticed ten back-to-back appointments on my calendar. Calling in sick meant canceling the European compliance requirements meeting; the Daily Incident Stand-up meeting; the COVID Task Force meeting (which I present); a vendor working group; the Security Risk Team meeting; and the Microsoft Azure Cloud meeting. I sighed. Cycling through potential options, I came up with a few possible solutions. I could cancel a few, reschedule a few, try to reclaim an hour or two of sleep, or work through the day? I chose the last. I got up and went to work. 

  By the end of July 15th, I felt really bad. I was uneven. My body was extremely sore, and my legs felt like I was pulling several columns of marble. I was operational (so to speak), but I was neither efficient nor doing anything with ease. I plopped myself back into the recliner around 8:30 PM. Closing my eyes for a moment, I felt feel extremely heavy. Suddenly, I awoke in a light gray surrounding or maybe a room. There was some form of corridor to my left, and some form of entity (man, angel) or spirit stood in front. A bright golden-white light emanated from some hole or doorway some distance behind the spirit.
  
  The light gave the illusion as though the spirit had a halo. But, maybe due to the light’s effect, the figure seemed to be light gray. And while I see that the light was golden at the entry, it transitioned white after nearing the spirit. The light did not penetrate the spirit, nor did I notice any facial features, including eyes. Glancing past the being, I could see outlines of beautifully radiant faces peering through the corridor. However, I could not decipher who they were. 

  The spirit outstretched his arm, waving for me to move toward the light. As I neared the hole or portal, I could see three beings: a darker skin complexion woman with black hair, a brown red hair woman to her right, and a man some distance behind with black hair and dark beard. Each person was radiant and translucent, wearing beautiful white robes with golden color trim. While I received No confirmation, I believe the darker skin woman was a business colleague who passed away in 2013. The woman to her right appeared to be like my ex-wife who passed away in January 2021. I could only speculate on the man behind them. Each of the beings were smiling.

  The sky was an incredible fluorescent color of blue I have never seen on earth. The bright golden-white light emanating from the portal consisted of golden light particles that floated outward from the portal. The strange part was, as the light particles crossed my body, I felt No fear. No part of me was afraid. I did not feel judged. I neither felt like completely in heaven nor hell. Neither the light, the spiritual beings, nor spirit said a word. There was No music. No further gestures to come near, but No one appeared to overtly prevent me from moving forward, so I felt as though I was floating toward the two women. Suddenly, the darker skinned woman raised her hand, with the palm facing me, as if to say, "Stop."

  Suddenly, I felt as though everything was shaking, like an earthquake. I awoke. 

  “Good. You’re still alive,” a familiar voice said. My friend shaking me. Then, she nervously laughed, “You looked like s*** at work today, so I stopped by to see how you were doing. For a moment, you looked like you had died.”

  Squinting at the clock, I noticed it was 9:53 PM. (It felt like I was in that tunnel of light only minutes.)

  “Have I been asleep this entire time?” I asked.

  “Yup,” she nodded. “You weren’t much company. But I let you sleep. I need to get out of here. Are you ok?”

  “Yeah, I believe so,” I said as she left.

  I had a hard time getting out of the recliner. My legs and body did not feel quite 100%, but I made it to bed and awoke 90% better the following morning July 16th.     

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 07/15/2021  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         None  Other Exhaustion  My body did not experience any significant trauma. There was No earthquake. No carjacking went wrong, nor was I violently assaulted. My condo unit did not collapse, and I was not involved in a car wreck. Neither did I neither fall down the stairs nor overdose. I did not experience a heart attack and didn’t see the ‘light’ during an operation. All I did was fall asleep in a recliner.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt No fear. No part of me was afraid. I did not feel judged. I could feel acceptance. And this acceptance was something I could never seem to feel being human.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt so much peace an love just on the other side of the portal.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I lost track of time. In fact, I swear that the entire experience lasted minutes. In earth time, I was out for nearly one and one-half hours.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It is very hard to articulate the vivid color descriptions. Ny normal recognition of color is so much less.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    One thing I can mention, I wear hearing aids and have tinnitus. When I was on the other side of the portal, I did not experience any tinnitus.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

  Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I awoke in a light gray surrounding that was maybe a room. There was some form of corridor (actually a tunnel to my left).  
  
Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I think the dark complexion woman was Kanako, a former co-worker.  I believe the red/brown haired woman was Karen, my first wife.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   bright golden-white light emanated from some hole or doorway some distance behind the spirit.   The light gave the illusion as though the spirit had a halo. But, maybe due to the light’s effect, the figure seemed to be light gray. And while I see that the light was golden at the entry, it transitioned white after nearing the spirit.  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I did not sense I was in heaven. I felt I was at an entry point prior to heaven, for lack of better words.  
  
What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, love, and acceptance.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Spiritual/Buddhist  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Spiritual/Buddhist  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I always felt there was/is a God, Holy Spirit, and Spiritual realm. This experience confirmed it.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more cognizant of my actions and how I treat others. I don't embellish my successes (arrogance). I focus on what I think God, Kanako, and Karen would want me to do.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   here was some form of corridor to my left, and some form of entity (man, angel) or spirit stood in front. Once I made it past the portal entry, I could see outlines of beautifully radiant faces peering through the corridor. However, I could not with 100% accuracy, decipher who they were.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   I think the dark haired man with a beard some distance behind the two women was Jesus.  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     When I crossed the portal, I felt I had intuitive knowledge that life continues after death.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt true acceptance. No judgement. Pure love. I felt complete/whole.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I am now more spiritual. I can meditate and sense God's presence. I can help others with spiritual problems and dreams that I was able to do before.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I make my current life experience transforming. I found that I don’t have to wait to get in front of God to reclaim life. I can choose to love unconditionally. I can make a powerful impact on the lives of others. I want to find those who will physically shake me and treat each person with love and peace. If I do, I won’t have to explain to God why I did not.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is very hard to articulate the vivid color descriptions, the level of acceptance and peace I felt. It was truly amazing.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

  Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I intuitively know what God wants me to do. I meditate and can sense the spiritual world and often receive guidance or a knowing about things before they occur.  
  
Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Kanako once said she would meet me when I was going to die. I believe Kanako was there. It was an awesome experience.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have this experience only with a Psychotherapist. Otherwise, I have not told anyone else.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   In 2001, my father had a near death experience. But my father's experience did not impact my experience.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The reason I know the experience was real is because I remember every - single - detail. Not one thing of the experience has faded.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The reason I know the experience was real is because I remember every - single - detail. Not one thing of the experience has faded.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

  Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I don’t believe I have a compelling story. Do I believe something happened as I slept? Yes. And maybe I returned only because I was shaken and thrust back into this life. All of this means is that evidentiary proof is personal. I certainly wouldn’t go on CNNs’ Anderson 360 and say, “I have evidence of life after death.”    I did see a corridor or tunnel. A bright light emanated from the end of that tunnel. I believe I could have gone into that light had I chose, but was stopped by someone who cared for me to physically shaken me awake. I experienced No shame or judgment.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wade_k_possible_nde.html