{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1volf_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Volf W NDE 4197","mylang":"de"}
          	        Volf W NDE 4197  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Volf W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2022 Volf W NDE 4197  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was floating over a billowing cornfield. There was clear, blue sky, white clouds and a strong wind that stirred into the field. At the end of the cornfield, I could see a house painted in red with white window frames and corners. Everything was so beautiful and the colors in the sky, the clouds, the corn and the house were sharp.

The experience was filled with happiness, energy, and made me strong somehow. I could feel this strength for four or five years afterwards before it was weakened, and I have many times since then tried to grasp that feeling. But it only remains as a memory now.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1964 10 29

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   A car accident, I had swallowed my tongue and passed out and rescuers cleared my mouth and were able to get in contact with me after twenty minutes. I had four cervix fractures, and the atlas vertebra was the most injured where both of the protuberances were broken. During my recovery, I was unconscious for three days, and was awake for a short while a few times. The ambulance medic guy was very nice and understanding. He gave me an enormous comfort by the few words he said. But at the hospital where nurses were wakening me for twenty to thirty times and asking for my name- then I felt that the hospital had a bad organization, and because of that I finally asked a nurse to write my name on a large piece of paper and put it on my belly. At another occasion there were many white coats around me discussing if they should operate or not (I think it was a minor bleeding on my spleen) and the nurse who was standing behind me called out, 'His pulse isn't beating any longer.' Then a male voice told her that if she stretched out my arm she would feel my pulse better. A nurse was holding my hand occasionally. When I woke up three days later my parents and my girlfriend were allowed to visit me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During my experience I was very alert. But I can't say if it happened when I was awake or when I was unconscious.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors were so bright and imaginative.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Everything that I saw was in a brighter light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Sädesfält och hus som jag såg, existerar inte. Men dom var vackra ändå.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Safe, joy, happiness. Happiness without limitations.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The power and the energy was knowledge that I experienced as valuable.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   The experience was filled with such powerful energy. I couldn't share the experience and the energy with any person at all. I kept it within me and the experience was so important that I wouldn't talk about it. I wanted to hold, keep the strength and energy of the experience within me. I felt that the feeling of it would disappear if I did.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire experience was meaningful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only after six or seven years I could begin to talk about the experience. This probably because I began to miss the feeling that it had been given to me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I had it within me and I was happy, grateful for it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It had such a deep impact on me for a couple of years, and because of that it became and still is meaningful.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1volf_w_nde.html