{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1volker_f_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Volker F Probable NDE 9715","mylang":"de"}
          	        Volker F Probable NDE 9715  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Volker F Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5244 Volker F Probable NDE 9715  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

     I arrived late in the evening at the hospital. The first hospital couldn't perform  surgery on my  fractured wrist that had the bones cracked 30-40 times. I had to wait a very long time before I was taken care of. The pain was so bad,  I lost consciousness. 

   I saw a very bright, white light and felt an infinite peace and calm inside. This was a unique experience, something I never experienced in this way. The security and the peace gave me such a lasting feeling of well-being. Unfortunately, I gained consciousness  quickly. I could have  stayed in that place forever. 

   I suffer with heavy depression and anxiety attacks. Maybe that all this was gone for this short time during my experience? I have no idea if this was an NDE, but it was wonderful.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 09/2014  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident       Wrist was fractured 30-40 times.  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal.   Infinite peace and calm. Security.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I simply was free.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was dizzy due to the pain.  

  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There, I didn't feel anything extraordinary. I collapsed slowly and could still hear my wife calling for help.  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

  Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain.     I saw a white light that didn't scare me at all.  I can't say if I was in a tunnel.  
  
Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Just a circular light radiating peace.  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     A place where I was floating and which was emitting a bright, white, roundish light.  
  
What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Infinite peace, calm and security  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

  What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist.   According to my friends (Pastor) I am a seeker for faith.  
  
  Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain.     I hope that God and Jesus do exist, or at least this peaceful transition into death exists.  
  
What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist     

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I was hoping that there would be an afterlife. But I'm very unsure. It would be awesome if these experiences would be real, for the time of my passing.  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     The perception was wonderful beyond words.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

  During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain.   That maybe there might be 'life' after death.  
  
During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Uncertain.     It would be wonderful if the transition into death would be like this. This gave me hope that maybe there is 'life' after death.  
  
Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

  During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain.     Everything I mentioned, such as calm, peace, security, being one with the world, could also be called love.  
  
What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  At last, I felt calm, peace, security, and saw the light.  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That there is possibly in fact 'life' after death.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my wife. Very religious.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     Even today (9 years later) I can still describe this feeling 100%.  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     Because I experienced this for the first time, and that it was just indescribable.  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think that you asked everything so far. Even with this I have been repeating a lot. Your questionnaire and book are bringing me hope.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1volker_f_probable_nde.html