{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wally_t_nde_289.html","mytitle":"Wally T NDE 289","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wally T NDE 289  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wally T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1375 Wally T NDE 289  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was walking in the park with a friend on a nice cool breezy summer night. I noticed my shoestring was untied and sat on a wall to tie it. Before I knew what hit me my heart felt like it was racing. I grabbed my chest and was immediately surrounded by the brightest light I had ever seen, but I was looking right into it and then I felt as if a blanket of love had been wrapped around me. The love I felt told me that this had to be God. A voice came out of the light and told me of when it had saved me from myself many times. The voice told me many things my future was revealed[J1], and my true destiny in life was revealed. The last thing that happened was the voice gave me the choice to live here on earth or come and be with God for all eternity. I chose to live, and God chose to give me another chance. One last thing, the whole time this was taking place I could hear my best friend in the background yelling that my body was glowing like a light bulb.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Heart attack. At the time, I did not know that I was developing Coronary Artery Disease. Three years ago I had to have six bypass heart surgery and the doctors said that it looked as if the development of plaque in my arteries started when I was fifteen years old.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I could hear everything, but I could not take my eyes from the light.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It felt like time was standing still.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Just the voice in the light.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     God was there.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See main narrative.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       LLLLOOOOVVVVEEEE!

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     See above.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was shown the real reason we are here to begin with, it changed my life forever, and it was like being reborn.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     See above.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was given a choice.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Now I know the truth for me.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   People would think you were crazy if you told them you could talk with God, and believed in real angels that walk around us every day. They do not understand that, why would God pick you to talk to and not them, but what they don't know is God does talk to everyone, it is up to us to CHOOSE to listen.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Being able to tell who is truly good at heart or not. After the experience, I am now aware of a presence that is always with me to guide me. I am not sure if this is an angel or God, but the guidance is always good.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was the love I could feel coming from the light. The worst part was losing my best friend; I think the experience frightened him.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    No one believed.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       That we are all special, and no one has a right to take that away from us. God did break the molds as soon as he made us.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wally_t_nde_289.html