{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1virginia_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Virginia F NDE 418","mylang":"de"}
          	        Virginia F NDE 418  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Virginia F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1295 Virginia F NDE 418  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was given the medication called the epidural. I was allergic to it and it had paralyzed me from the neck down. I went into shock from the medication and then my blood pressure bottomed out and I died. I left my body and could hear the nurses and doctor working on me. I did not look behind me to see them, I was headed for a window where a cool October fall breeze was coming in, and I knew that if I reached that window, that I would never come back. Then a being appeared, Angel-like and reminded me of the husband and son that would never see me again and the daughter that would never know her mother. (I did not know I was having a girl.) Then when I felt this profound love for my family, it was like a rubber-band that snapped me back into my body of pain. I had a choice to go or stay. But, I think that when I came to the choice of love and understanding of what this being was showing me, that's when it was understood what my choice had to be. When I was out of my body, there was no pain just profound peace and love. I knew that I was going to a place that was beyond anything a mortal could imagine. I do not to this day fear death in any way. And as a retired nurse, I shared my story with those at the door of death to help their journey of crossing over easier.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Oct. 24, 1971

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Childbirth    Clinical death   Allergic reaction.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Good.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There is no time as we know it here. You know somehow that you are between worlds as we know it.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Nothing unusual, just the medical staff working on me.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I was stopped before I got there.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I feel it was my Guardian Angel, she came from the window where I was going to. She told me the story of my family.

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Brighter than light we know.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     But not right away, that came later after the rebirth of me.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Not really past more of the present and future. And yes I have learned much, to always say I love you to those that matter, for tomorrow we may not be here.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     My life with my family.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I had a choice, to stay or go.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Wicca

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     A deeper understanding of the two worlds and how very mortal we are here.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have always been psychic.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best is knowledge there is no worst.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Their reaction is one of almost answers to their own questions and at the time they seemed to have a better understanding that there is no reason to fear death.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1virginia_f_nde.html