{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vito_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Vito P NDE 3346","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vito P NDE 3346  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Vito P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1302 Vito P NDE 3346  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My experience started while I was laying in my hospital bed. I remember being handcuffed (police officer thought I was drunk) to the hospital bed in a room by myself and I started to feel very strange. I kept calling out to the officer to get help, because I did not feel right. She told me to shut the 'f' up along with many other nasty comments, and slammed the hospital room door shut. Panic set in along with intense pain.

At this time I was feeling like I was going to die and I was losing control of my body, including speech. I gathered one last strength and yelled for help. A friend of mine, who was also in the accident, heard me and came to the room. I told him to get a doctor quickly because I was going to die. He then yelled for a doctor for help.

I was very alert at this time but knew it was a matter of time when I would not be able to speak. The feeling of panic was high, so I knew I was still alive. The doctor asked what was wrong, I told him I thought my ribs were broken and I did not feel right. They were transporting me down the hall and calling my mother at the same time. When I spoke to my mother, I told her I was going to die - at this time my vision became blurry and then just stopped. I told my mother I couldn't see anymore. This is when the doctor took the phone and said they had to do emergency exploratory surgery.

My hearing was never affected, even at the time of blindness. Then it was as if I had lost all fears and pain, and felt as if I had an incredible feeling of energy and alertness. My vision came back, except I was not in my body anymore. I was above it, while they rushed me to the operating room. The feeling could not really be defined, as if I was floating or hovering, it was as if I was just moving along freely. There were no restrictions on my movement; my earthly body was not holding me back.

I remember staying in this state throughout most of the surgery. At no time do I recall coming back to my body. I woke up in my hospital room a few days later and realized I was back. There was so much pain and discomfort. It was reality, and I knew that something wonderful had happened.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  November 11 1986

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Ruptured spleen due to car accident.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was not treated right away at hospital, during the wait, I began to feel like I was dying.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was more alive than I have ever been at any time in my life.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was more alive than I have ever been at any time in my life.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I could not compare time as here on earth with the length of the experience, it was as if time did not exist anymore.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was able to see and was aware of my surroundings, just remember watching from above, the hospital staff rush me into the operating room and listening to what they were saying. It was very clear and vivid, just I was not in my physical body at time of experience.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Was able to hear fine, and was more than one hundred percent alert - if this makes sense. There were times I tried to talk to the hospital staff because I disagreed with their evaluation.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't believe so, although my surroundings, no matter which way I was looking, seemed to be bordered like a halo with a bright light like no other I have experienced.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I just do not recall a tunnel, more like a halo of light. A tunnel to me is a long cylinder of light, and my experience was more like a halo of light around my field of vision.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       This is a tough question to describe. It's almost as if you have left all your worries and everyday struggles behind in your body while your mind and spirit became one. This was the most incredible feeling I have ever experienced, there is nothing on this earth that can duplicate this, not even illegal drugs.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was an atheist, now I am a hundred percent Christian.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   born again

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was an atheist, now I am a hundred percent Christian.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I used to tell people all the time, I was excited to know that there was something after death and I actually experienced it. People seemed interested at the time, but some eventually thought I was weird.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Till this day, I have a strong sense about things, sort of visions in a way. In most cases when this happens, it comes true. This never happened before the experience.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The experience changed my beliefs forever. Knowing now that I actually had a spirit and a meaning to life changed me. Without this experience, I would still be in the dark believing when you die you just die.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    At first I shared it with everyone, people seemed interested, but know I believe some just thought I was strange. If I speak about it now, it is on a rare occasion and only with people, I know and most likely have told it to before. I don't believe anyone has been influenced by it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was very excited and confused during the days and months after the experience. My strong atheist belief was wiped out in one night. Now I was left wondering what if there could really be a GOD.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know what I experienced and felt was very real. There was no mistake that I had a soul, I was very much alive looking down at my body. There is no way I could experience this if it were not the case.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Okay, not that I condone this or believe that anyone should try to duplicate my experience, but LSD is very close to the experience. During your time of trips, you get a feeling that is very similar. Please do not take this the wrong way; just felt I should be honest with this.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Not at this time.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vito_p_nde.html