{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vinnie_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Vinnie G NDE 3062","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vinnie G NDE 3062  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Vinnie G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1094  Vinnie G NDE  3062  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

One of the first things that I experienced was at the accident scene. There were these beings of light but not any type of light that I am familiar with it was a kind of a glow. These beings were tall they didn't really seem to have faces but they were surrounding the vehicle we were in. At the time, I didn't know that one of my friends was dead. Later I remembered seeing him lying there in covered in blood. I also did not know that my body was damaged. These beings were protecting us from these other 'things' they were dark black and they seemed to buzz around like bees. They were attempting to penetrate the shield the beings of light had formed around us. They seemed to know that they couldn't penetrate it but they still didn't stop attempting to penetrate it. I do not remember feeling any pain I am sure I was hurting because I remember my breathing pattern was irregular but I don't remember the pain.

I don't know how much time was spent on each of these events because I was not aware of the passing time. The next thing I remember was being on a boat, a yacht of some sort, it was white and I was wearing a white outfit. I was on the deck enjoying myself talk with someone that I believe was my best friend at the time. This is funny because I remember we were eating fried chicken (I don't know what that has to do with anything). I remember being on the water, it was very peaceful.  As I write this I can feel the rocking of the boat, it was a relaxing feeling. The thing is I have never been on a boat like the one I was on.

Then I remember seeing myself in different lifetimes that I had previously lived or had knowledge of. I saw myself as a warrior on a Plain of some sort it was cold yet I was not cold. I was on a horse riding without a saddle I had a bow and some arrows in one hand and in the other I remember having a sword or large knife. I might have been in a battle, I don't know, but I remember hanging onto the pony (because it was not as large as a horse) with my legs.

I then saw myself as a member of an army. For some reason I thought it was the Roman army. I remember marching in some type of formation bound I don't know where but I remember that the dirt was very dry yet it was not sand but some kind of fine dirt it felt almost like powder. I don't understand why I remember these things or if they are of any importance. Perhaps the little things solve this puzzle.

I remember being an indigenous person in pre-Columbian Mexico or Central America. Once again, I had been or was involved in a battle. I saw myself trying to climb to the top of one of the pyramids in Mexico; I have always thought it was the pyramid of the Sun in the ruins outside of Mexico City. I guess I think that because I went there once to visit and I felt so at peace as I had returned home, like I had been there before, yet I had never been there before that time. As I am writing this, I remember that on a trip in which the accident occurred we had driven into Mexico City and I remember seeing them in the distance and longing to see them close up again wanting to be there. I can't explain this. I was trying to climb the stairs but I was wounded I felt that if I could reach the top of the pyramid I would be safe. For some reason I don't know why I believe that I was some type of warrior/Priest.

Then found myself on a 'plain' once again. It was like a dried up lake. I was sitting on a rock that was not a rock; it was the most comfortable rock I have ever sat on. The only way I can explain it is that it reminds or 'memory foam' at this time I was approached by a 'Man' that for some reason I believe was Jesus Christ the Messiah. He was accompanied by a couple of other men they seemed older. I could see them. They had beards and were wearing some type of robes. 'Jesus' began to communicate with me; we spoke, but not like speaking with others here. This is one of the things I cannot explain. The only way I can describe our communication was telepathy yet I 'heard' and 'understood' what he was saying.

Let me just say that I have never felt such peace as I did sitting there on the rock. I asked him questions and he answered. One thing I will never forget is that love that I saw in his eyes, I felt accepted, like I couldn't do anything that would stop his love for me. I began to question him about some things. He transferred me to a time during the crucifixion. I remember being in the crowd yelling for him to be crucified, I could smell the blood and I could smell death. I remember as he hung on the cross I remember stabbing him with my spear but he was already dead, I didn't cry I didn't regret my sins, I just remember stabbing him. I don't know if this was a vision he was showing me but I remember telling him we 'killed' you, you died I saw you die. He looked at me and said, ' Yes but I arose on the third day remember.' I said, 'Yeah you did.' It was at this time that I knew they were sending me back, and I asked him do I have to go back. He smiled and said yes, he didn't say anything about me having a job to do or anything like that just you're going back. I didn't want to come back.

Then I remember being in the hospital I didn't know that I as back in Texas. But I would walk around, go visit the other people that were in the intensive care unit. There was one man in particular that I would go sit with I knew he was dying and so did he. We communicated with each other. Much the same way 'Jesus' and I communicated. I would visit other people but I didn't have the same connection I had with the man that was dying. Then one day he was not there anymore, he was gone. When I came out of my coma, I asked my mother about him. She seemed shocked that I would know that he was there so I said to her it's okay I know he died. She never asked me how I knew.

This experience changed me, it shook my faith, and everything that I believed seemed different. I would love to say that this experience made me a better person and eventually it did it has helped shape who I am today. But for about twelve years, it made me a worse person according to some people. To me I just 'was' I no longer feared death or anything else, I felt free.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    'April 8, 1990'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   AccidentSurgery-related. Direct head injury    Other 'I was involved in a head on collision with a semi-truck while travelling in Mexico. I suffered several broken bones, blood loss, and a head injury and eventually lapsed into a coma.'.  During this experience my heart stopped twice or three times. According to the doctors I had no brain activity; they kept asking my mother if she would like to donate my organs because according to them the only thing keeping me alive were the machines that I was on.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I believe I was at my highest level of consciousness when I could go visit people while I was in my coma. At that time it seemed that time or space did not exist.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time didn't seem to be a concern to me.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I could see through objects, I could see and walk through walls. I could move faster than I can now I was not hindered by my physical body. My sense of smell was different I could smell more things that I would not normally associate a smell with.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    But I cannot explain how it was just different.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I really don't remember if I did maybe while I was in the boat.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I believe I met Jesus.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   I don't remember seeing a light just while on the boat things seemed very bright.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just the places that I described earlier.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I didn't really feel any emotions towards myself. I didn't see myself as being me. I remember once having one while I was awake. I was in the corner of the room looking down at myself watching television. I saw my mother sleeping and I remember thinking that poor lady she has suffered so much with that young man. I didn't see her as my mother or my shell (body) as me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw myself in different lifetimes. See main narrative.

If I learned anything it was not to fear dying and to do things right this time.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Southern Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     It did for a long time because everything that I was taught as a child didn't seem to fit with what I had experienced. And the Bible did not seem to explain what I had experienced so it left me very confused. I am okay now though.

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     It did for a long time because everything that I was taught as a child didn't seem to fit with what I had experienced. And the Bible did not seem to explain what I had experienced so it left me very confused. I am okay now though.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Just the knowledge of the crucifixion.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I tend to have a hard time making emotional attachments to people. Except for the students that I teach for some reason I tend to make connections with them.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I experienced things or events that I cannot explain I literally do not have the words to describe or explain them. The experiences where not like anything that I have experienced previous to this incident so it is difficult to have a reference point.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I was able to tell things about people, not about their future, but about their past that affected their future. Although I seemed to have it before it seemed to get stronger after my accident. It also felt stronger when I would drink alcohol. I believe I got this from my mother. She can sometimes tell things about what will happen. She had a dream about the accident I was in, dreamed the car type and color, also that she had flown on a plane which she described to my dad. My mother had never been on a plane but she was flown back from Mexico on a private jet that belonged to the company I was working with. It was just as she had described to my dad.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I still don't know, except maybe not to live my life in fear and not to do things out of fear.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I took a few years. At first I was afraid people would think I was crazy because there were things I cannot explain or have the words to do so.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Uncertain

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I took me a while to process what had happened I didn't understand it, sometimes I still don't.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Once when I had surgery and I quit breathing.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I have trouble talking about it sometimes because it just seems so incredible to me.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vinnie_g_nde.html