{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1viola_nde.html","mytitle":"Viola NDE 6751","mylang":"de"}
          	        Viola NDE 6751  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Viola NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3370 Viola NDE 6751  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As usual, I had to have another session of chemo, horrible chemo. Everything went well until I began to feel cold and my vision misted. I thought this was a normal reaction, but everything went dark and suddenly there was a flash like a camera-flash. Never had I felt so good, no pain and I seemed to be floating, it was as if I was not ill, no pain and no nausea. Everything around me faded out and I seemed to be in a park, which appeared very familiar, time slowed, and distant voices could be heard as if shouting technical terms. Meanwhile, I wandered slowly through this park which seemed endless, feeling  warmth in my chest which grew stronger when I saw Ana (may she rest in peace), my ex-roommate, who died from the same illness as I have. I felt an immense peace. I did not want to leave this dream, but Ana smiled at me, took hold of my nightgown without a word and pulled me towards a precipice. I thought 'why?' and as I fell I saw myself falling towards myself lying in the hospital bed surrounded by doctors and nurses who were giving me CPR and defibrillation.  Finally, I heard a loud whistle and woke up feeling tired, but with a feeling of pleasure and sadness, as I wanted to return to that parkland where everything was perfect, without pain.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  13/04/2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. CPR given.    Other: Tengo cáncer de piel (melanoma maligno)en fase metastásica 4.  Now and at the time of the experience, I have been suffering from skin cancer in phase 4 metastasis. It is a miracle I am still alive as inside I am destroyed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I heard technical terms, and I recall the exact quantity of a substance they injected me with, and specific phrases, which I later repeated word for word to the doctors, who confirmed them.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I came upon myself, saw, and heard the doctors from overhead.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     When I fell back down it accelerated, but in the park everything went more slowly.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     In the experience, I saw everything more vividly but blurred at times, and brightly lit.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard echoes, and voices came and went, louder, then softer and more distant.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     It was my friend, roommate and fellow battler with chemo. She had the same illness as me but she did not recover.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A flash at the start of the experience, much light for the rest of it.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     No, actually, in a way, it was supernatural, because although I knew the park, it kept changing and the ground was cloud-like.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very strong, pleasure, peace, joy, fear (when I fell back), confusion...

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     It is my destiny to struggle with this illness, because my friend wanted it in our meeting in the park, pulling me to the precipice to save me, as if saying it was not yet my time.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     The place of the experience was the park where I used to play as a child.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment   Antes era católica no practicante, pero porque mis padres lo son y yo pues era pequeña y hacía lo que ellos me decían, pero a medida que crecí pensé por mi misma "si dios es tan poderoso?y estoy rezando por que no hace desaparecer esta maldita enfermedad?" y dejé de creer, pero por supuesto respeto y soy tolerante con los demás.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Unknown

What is your religion now?       No comment   Sigo sin creer en un dios en concreto.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Not in my beliefs, but I had given up wanting to fight, but now I am stronger in confronting the illness and beating it.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       I am uncertain if an afterlife exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     That life is a continual trial and we must always try to overcome it and not surrender.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It seemed like a dream, but very real at the same time, like a very vivid and irrational dream.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Meeting Ana again in the park

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because the doctors confirmed the phrases I had heard them speak.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1viola_nde.html