{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vincent_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Vincent T NDE 167","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vincent T NDE 167  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Vincent T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						608  Vincent T NDE  167  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 Well, it was quite a simple experience. I had suddenly gotten ill while vacationing in Disney World over the New Year in 2000. My wife and I had gone out to dinner. Several hours after dinner, I began experiencing intense abdominal pain. Of course, being an Italian male, I refused to go to the hospital.  Well at about 4 am, the pain just became so intense that I told my wife to call the front desk. As Disney has its own EMTs/ambulance staff, they dispatched an EMT crew to my room. The two paramedics, retired from New York City, said I had to go to the hospital.


Apparently, on the way to the local hospital, my vitals began to really slip. I remember the paramedic requesting via radio that instead of going to the local hospital, they would divert to the Regional Trauma Center. Blood pressure had fallen to 60/40. Upon arrival, I remember requesting something for the intense pain, but the staff refused. Doctors said they could not give me pain medication until they found out what the problem was. They had to perform a CAT scan and other tests.


That's about the last I remember. I don't think they ever gave me any pain medication. I do remember telling my wife she had been a good wife, as if I knew I would be leaving. Unknown to me at the time, the hospital had sent the chaplain to stay with my wife, in my room. I also later learned that doctors told my wife they had done all they could, and now it was up to me. Well at some point, I guess I lost consciousness.


Upon awakening, I remember it was like being shocked back to life.  (No, I didn't have a heart attack, and they did not use the paddles either.) I remember seeing a very, very bright white light. I also remember seeing my mother who had passed several years earlier. She was standing in front of a doorway or entrance in a blocking manner.  She did not say anything, but I guess the symbol was that it was not my time to enter. I then woke up.


For some reason at the time, I felt disappointed that I was not allowed to enter and remain wherever it was I had gone. It seemed so peaceful. Today, I have no fear of dying because of what I experienced. That's about it. To this day, the doctors debate whether I had a staph infection, toxic shock, or anaphylactic shock.  I did make a full recovery from whatever it was.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    January 6, 2000

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    IllnessAllergic reaction    Clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I believe I was unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It seemed as if time or nothing else mattered.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     It seemed like a dark tunnel, with a big bright white light at the end. The light was so bright, it hurt to look at it. The light seemed to draw me toward it.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     My mother, standing by a doorway or entrance. Nothing was said, it was if she turned me away and sent me back. That's when I regained consciousness.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   See above.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Calm, painlessness, peace.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   catholic

What is your religion now?      Moderate   catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I feel more relaxed and do not fear death.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Not being allowed to remain, wherever it was that I had gone to.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My wife and several relatives. They didn't seem to be influenced one way or another.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vincent_t_nde.html