{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1virginia_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Virginia D NDE 4591","mylang":"de"}
          	        Virginia D NDE 4591  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Virginia D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2316 Virginia D NDE 4591  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The day started out as normal and exciting because it was the first day of summer break. I had planned a lot but as I was forty-six years old, that would be easy for me. The super-mom that I was and who also took care of the farm. My teaching position was being questioned and I had some very rough times but all was smoothing out for now. Except on June 2, my life changed and turned upside down.

I was having strong pains in my chest and just three weeks early, I had entered the emergency room thinking I was having a heart attack but to be told it was acid reflux. Again, thinking I was having acid reflux, I just went on picking up things and talking with my younger son and his friends who was assisting me in the classroom. I know that the pain was horrible and I had to stop several times, but when I bent over the trash can and I filled it up with sweat coming down and off my face I knew this was not normal and again the pain. So I went to ask my principal to see what she thought, I must have looked horrible she said you need to go home and rest. I called my older son and he picked me up at school and took me home. My ex-husband called the doctor while I went to the hot tub feeling for sure it was acid reflux, only to have vomited before I got into the hot tub. Now again another sign, but I was not aware of the heart problem then as well. When I got into the hot tub, the pain was so bad I had to get out and go up several flights of stairs to go to my room. I knew something was wrong but did not understand until I went into my bathroom and saw my face pale and my eyes where sunken in my face and dark black circles etched in my face.

I heard a voice that said, 'Dear one, go to the emergency room now!' I had heard that voice about twenty-five years before when I had had a bad car wreck, and I was told not to turn that way. Which I did not listen at all and almost lost my life. This time I heard and followed the directions and went to emergency room. I had a massive heart attack in the emergency room.

That is when I had started my out of body experience everything started slowing down.  I heard a voice telling to be still and stop fighting them. But it felt I was inside of myself and I watching everything from my solar plexus. I am remembering now that cannot be possible. I got there in the day but it appeared I was leaving in the dark or at night. I do remember when I came back into my body is when they lifted me out of the ambulance and the wheels of the table I was on hit hard on the hard surface and I came back into my body thinking this is really like emergency room the series on television. However when I crossed over I met the council and God of the Universe. I viewed my life and several events and realized that we are all one with the Universe so when I hurt someone I was really hurting myself and even more so I was hurting every soul in the Universe. I realized I was pure white light and each soul had a different hue, but I could see them. Many times other souls could not make the viewing so they would walk away from the light. Again, I did not feeling worthy. God's goodness over doubt; that is what I was told, to stop doubting myself and know that I am the light of God. I also traveled through the Universe called the wheel of life, God or the consciousness of God was the center and we are all the spokes of the wheel. I felt what God felt and knew what God knew and it is not of this world of man but a different world all together.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'June 2, 1998'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' I had a heart attack need a heart transplant  I had a heart attack and was in need of a heart transplant. However, I had seen a heart transplant a week before my heart attack and refused the heart transplant. I had a complete healing in three days of the event.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was riding in the ambulance. That was when I became aware of being outside of the moving ambulance and I was being pulled out of myself. That is when I sat down in the room full of the white robe beings or the 12th council.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time where I was and all things continue on and on.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When I first came back everything talked and vibrated differently. All things would talk to me. And I knew it was the truth, I had a total different view in everything I said or did.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Sounds were sharper, and more hurtful in my hearing. I could not stand loud noises or non-patterned sounds.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I did not go to the light or tunnel, I went straight up and set down in front of the council. The room felt like a room but it was a wall that I could see through to the Universe.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw the robed ones in white robes with golden ropes and angels taking souls in and out as well up a road to a place that looked like ancient Greece.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   God was massive light energy and movement.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw many different places but all at the same time.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy and love like I had never experienced before on earth but more intense, words are hard to define the experience.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I remember and review a time when I was in the fifth grade and I had to feel what I had done to a young girl that I had treated mean. I felt what all souls felt when they were lost without light and love.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     The line had been drawn in the sand it was time to wake up and see the truth and stop hurting one another.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No     Everything was limitless and I could be where I would like to be.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am not religious, I am full of spirit and love and my church is inside of me and God is a part of me and my experience. God is just a small word compared to what I experienced.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am not religious, I am full of spirit and love and my church is inside of me and God is a part of me and my experience. God is just a small word compared to what I experienced.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That we are the true creators here on earth and by our believing and experiencing love we create our greatness, but if we experience in fear we reap nothing but darkness and fear.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I lost my hometown, friends of many years, but I gained so many clients, friends in truth and love.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Words would not fit or match what I felt. I had been an English teacher and for the first time could not find the correct words to express my experience. I also taught science as well so I had some very interesting thoughts of understanding in science as well.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I became a spiritual healer and speaker about soul inner work.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, when I left my thirty years of marriage and went back to my home on Angel Avenue I realized I had a larger mission than I could even wrap my mind around. I have loved this journey and experience even when I felt I lost everything but gained it all. I would not trade this experience for anything.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I started speaking and teaching for the last ten years, first in homes, now I go all places where people ask for me. First, many people could not hear me or understand but now it appears many things have happened and more people are speaking up about their experiences which has assisted me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I had to review my experience in my mind's eye to realize I did have an out of body experience and did die in a sense of my soul.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I live this life now and I am living the truth and this is the best thing to have happened to me. I know I do not die and that it is up to us to remember who we are, great light and creators of love and goodness.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       This was not my first NDE, when I was born in 1951 I weighed 1lb. 7oz. Drowned twice, once at eleven, and again at sixteen. Then I had a heart attack at forty-six. Many memories came forth about all the events then.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I normally do not write all this but it has been good for me to review and that is the name of my company 'Revisions' - to review again. So thank you for your time and I do hope this has given you some insight as well. Sincerely, Virginia D.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1virginia_d_nde.html