{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vincent_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Vincent H NDE 8148","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vincent H NDE 8148  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Vincent H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4249 Vincent H NDE 8148  					  				  			      			  			  				Experience Description

  					 Mémorandum pour l'au-delà - Un pas dans l'éternité &nbsp; Check it out at:&nbsp; Click Here

  				  Concession à perpétuité - Mémorandum pour l'au-delà &nbsp; Check it out at:&nbsp; Click Here                      					 

                     					

   
  

    					

Mémorandum pour l'au-delà - Un pas dans l'éternité   Check it out at:  Click Here    Concession à perpétuité - Mémorandum pour l'au-delà   Check it out at:  Click Here    The account of this experience is very long, it needed two books: 1st ‘Mémorandum pour l'au-delà, un pas dans l'éternité’ (Memorandum for the beyond, a step into eternity) and the second: ‘Concession à perpétuité’ (Perpetual grant) at the Editions La Providence.
 
 Here I only can give excerpts. 
 
 Excerpts of the first book – Memorandum for the beyond:
 
 Here this adventure...Welcome in this eternity....
 
 One morning in June...
 
 Everything started on this morning in June 1999, by a visit at the cardiologist. Following a Doppler test, my cardiac muscle showed abnormal electric activities, so there was the need to investigate further. An electrocardiogram effectively confirmed an irregular activity and certified a real dysfunction. An ultrasound scan revealed a defect of the mitral valve, it was urgent to operate surgically to avoid the risk of more important heart problems. 
 
 After a row of visits in a hospital in Tours, the surgeon cardiologist offered me the benefit of a new technique of replacement; the one used until then had been a 'mechanical valve'. Invited by the hospital, a Canadian surgeon cardiologist was to teach this new technique, the 'mitral reconstruction', which had never been practiced in Europe, even though it had been largely experimented in North America for about a year. For this first one, a host of surgeons coming from the four corners of Europe could follow this operation, that was re-transmitted on a big screen to the conference hall, situated a few hundred meters away from the hospital. 
 
 Accepting the risk to incur, I became the 'guinea pig'. Confident and curious I had accepted being the prey of scientific intelligence... Without knowing what was coming, but with discernment, letting go bit by bit I was diving into a state of anguish. I tried to cling to the thought that my life would be slightly different afterwards, for sure better. Obviously more serene about my future... Would this exceptional intervention be a sign? I don't know! This question will forever remain pending...
 
 Nevertheless, after thorough reflection, the man I am with, my cohort of experiences, beautiful or bad, wasn't to ignore that this type of chance was presenting but once. 
 
 With respect of the slightly adventurous aspect of which I knew the risk, I accepted in all conscience that my life could come to an end at that precise moment. 
 
 The long way of the patient crippled by his load of anxieties, and fears about the future, forces to reconsider his life and future. The fact to penetrate into the enclosure of the sacrosanct surgical room of high technology, brought along its attendant of concerns. 
 
So the 3rd of October 1999 is the date held back for the operation. Finally, the repetitive tests are finished, explanations provided with kindness and empathy; details dissected by the whole of the medical personnel, can't but reassure myself.
 
 The previous, day in the morning, with my partner, we set off towards Tours, the beautiful autumnal lights of this Indian summer coming along. But the whole way on this trip, anxiousness was beating me up; I tried to remain serene to make believe to my partner that everything is all right. As we were approaching, astonishingly, worry subsides, leaving space for a growing serenity. 
 
 Of course this operation opened a lot of questions about my future, but despite this, I considered them without anxiety, but with some uncertainties. When passing the doors of this hospital, I felt a slight apprehension as if I was starting this path towards uncertainty... towards an uncertain future. 
 
 Quickly, I'm taken care of by the medical personnel, and I then start to understand what this operation represents and the means that are put into place. 
 
 After a succession of encounters with the doctors and a number of analyses, on this morning of the 3rd October, dressed in a blue gown, on a stretcher I'm passing the long corridors and take the elevators, leading to the operation theater. 
 
 I feel cold, the small blanket covering me isn't sufficient to warm me. The cold comes from inside, I sense it, insistent and biting. A question is assaulting me like an arrow: 
 
 What will happen to me afterwards? 
 
 If not , is everything happening as expected?
 
 No time anymore to answer those questions, as my eyes catch the reality of this moment, the moment where I would be the only person to pamper, to protect, and to be repaired. There are many people in this white and cold room. I can distinguish some with protective headgear and earpieces, others occupied and silent. I climb on the table, trying to avoid hitting the light, which is radiating a soft light. 
 
 Impressed by the deployment of cameras and microphones, I have difficulties focusing my attention. Yet I try to concentrate in order not to miss one bit of what is happening. I'm bathed in this soft light; illumination is changing what allows me to realize that now things will accelerate. The surgeons get busy, they are fitting their masks and gloves, blue and green are mixing, camera lenses sparkle, last settings... there are so many that I even cannot distinguish the 'boss', they come close and reassure me by explaining the devices displayed, joking joyfully... I feel unbelievably calm, not nervous nor worried; I know that I'm in good hands. The anesthetist is commenting the exceptional side of this operation. He is presenting me with his assortment of products, the injection machine. He is giving me the needed explanations so that I should feel relaxed and reassured. 
 
 I'm turning my gaze towards the side, it's concentrating on that machine, which is injecting the product required for my sleep through a small tube, the slow progression of the anesthetic in my veins warms up every part of my arm...I thought about the fact that I would come back, out of this path towards uncertainty... Just a smile and blackness brutally occupies space...
 
 Am I in a dream, where am I? 
 
 What's that light, what's that deep darkness, this void? 
 
 Can I ask myself this question while dreaming? 
 
 What happened? Below me I see, loads of people working on a stretched out form that I recognize with surprise, that's I... Oh, no! What am I doing there, above everybody, I'm moving, I'm floating, I feel aspired towards this blackness...urging forward. It's sticking on, like a magnetized cloth... I feel well. I have the impression to sense an attraction, which is forcing me, without me being able to do anything, moving me, transporting me rapidly towards a point barely visible, everything is happening very fast. The dark walls surrounding me, for me, seem to consist of an extremely vivid energy, which is passing with a high speed, it's becoming dizzying, and I perceive a harmony of sound reassuring me, like an internal vibration. Everything is in the immediate, I feel serene and clear-sighted. 
 
 Immersion... This tunnel... This light. 
 
 Questions arise like lightning, when? I don't know. Why? Not either. I still see myself lying there and very fast, like being aspired, I'm starting, as if being pushed. These energetic walls are vibrating and passing by at a dizzying speed, blackness is sticking, it is deeply intense, it's not like in a black room, you feel it as a being present, it's penetrating and without limits, it's squeezing you like a vibratory certainty... a short moment, as if you were arriving at the end of a 'tunnel'. 
 
 I also give the name 'tunnel' to an effect that is felt like a vortex: the energetic structures composing it seem to swirl, in order to create a geometry, allowing concentration and persistence. This is giving a tube effect whose extremity seems to be tighter. A symphony of melodious sounds is accompanying you, cradling you, and transcends you to a point of unequaled appeasement.
 
 This end, this extremity is made of a light and volutes of an opalescent white. Very intense and not blinding, this light similar to a textured veil, is composed of reflections of countless luminescent colors, it seems full of vitality. 
 
 This soft blindness is attracting me and envelopes me in an instant. 
 
 I sense this energetic membrane, like a warm blanket, warm, loving and very attractive. Like a truth... This light, this exuberant shower of love, is calming me immediately, I'm not aware what I will find when approaching its center.
 
 A soft sensation invades me, it's a wondering, strong and powerful.
 
 I know where I am, I don't have a sensation of dreaming, I sense such love that it seems impossible for me. I'm finding a vibration whose existence I know, the one of a familiar environment. I don't know fear nor anxiety, I'm in a peace of mind without name, I feel welcomed like a hero; I can't understand and assimilate what I see. In this place, so big and so beautiful, a flood of questions is overwhelming me.
 
 I can see from afar, and at the same time very close, a multitude of small and big halos, dancing with the sound of a majestic melody, whose notes chime and merge together in harmony. They come towards me with softness and voluptuousness, so that I sense an extraordinary well-being, as if I was bathing in an energy whose essence is this sublime feeling: Love. 
 
 I don't feel any fear, any anxiousness, I don't understand where I am... But the answer is given right away; I'm in the antechamber of the world of the quintessence. It's in that reality that the journey is getting unbelievable... I have to pass a 'door', in order to understand what comes next. 
 
 Attracted, I'm entering into this world, with docility and also a great delicacy, over there where the light as a master organizes things harmoniously, over there where the depth of the infinite is a formidable truth, over there where the colors have a multitude of shades, and where this energy is shining. Changing in a way that is impossible to describe, as the amplitude is infinite. 
 
 This striking love, transported by these halos, leaves space for a peace without name, I'm in a luminous mirth surrounded by indescribable sounds. The halos dissipate in softness, leaving room for another very luminous form, immensely beautiful, of which emanates a 'radiance' of love.
 
 I no more had any awareness of my temporal terrestrial presence, that I only just left behind, yet the evidence of what was happening to me, seemed to have a great logic for me. I got my reply even before having formulated my question, I was not dead, but just a simple visitor, a simple experiencer...
 
 The 'radiance' of love is vehement, it's forms and these persistent luminous beings, show me the heroic vision of my envelope, my understanding. The ambient harmony opens up unsuspected forms, of an unbelievable precision and unbelievable definition. 
 
 I no more have any awareness of the difference with my material body. I am One, I don't have to make an assessment, I'm but a traveler...
 
 These luminous forms are surrounding me and give me, again, the honorary perspective of what will follow, I'm in a bliss without name, surrounding me I sense such love that it is impossible to imagine. 
 
 The sonorous and subtle atmosphere is organizing the environment to help me opening my field of vision for a more delicate vibratory state. The pull towards this opening that stands out as evidence, is taking me towards an unsuspected dimension. It’s impossible, even today, to describe exactly the immense plenitude that invades me, as the vision opens up on this immensely beautiful and glorious world in front of me. 
 
 There's just one 'step' I need, to enter into this other state. One-step into eternity… 
 
 The step into eternity...
 
 The journey starts by the awareness of a previous experience, I get back some feelings and sensations already known. I have the impression to come back at home into my country, this sensation is identical to the one that you feel, when at the end of an endless and tiring journey...you finally arrive at home.
 
 I'm without any sorrow, bitterness, heaviness, pain, everything is so beautiful, that I'm vibrating with bliss. This body that I feel is no more the same, it's not limited by its usual sensations, these are extremely enlarged.
 
 This envelope of flesh, which is limiting our interior space is liberated of the organic limits of the matter. I look at my hands, my body, and I don't see any difference. Simply freed from the matter, my consciousness is not creating any illusion; it realizes my totality in a tangible accuracy. 
 
 It's strange to move by the power of thought. Landscapes, whose majestic curves resemble nothing of what I knew; they seem unreal to me, yet so animated. 
 
This life I see it radiating with such a warmth, a vibration, while due to a missing vocabulary, its legitimacy would seem to fade considerably. 
 
 My enhanced senses make me aware that everything is magnified; the indefiniteness of the environment is such, that nothing what you know on earth exists in this reality. The geometric sense of things is modified, curves are more majestic, space goes on over unknown dimensions, sounds are as well present as far away, the breath of the surrounding energy is scattered harmoniously. Smell is accurate, true and balanced. Sight is immensely amplified, I see, sense, hear and feel, all this at the same time. 
 
 Landscapes remotely resembling terrestrial landscapes, are very beautiful, but not as we could see on earth. They have a harmonious geometry, and no matter the place where you are, you will discover its total subtlety. I can't describe them in detail, so very complex and indefinable is their geometry. The notion of depth of field, seems more cramped in the terrestrial dimension, here you feel it unlimited...
 
 The 'nature' of the world of quintessence resembles more an unbelievable diversity, definition, precision, and allows you to detail down to its consistence, and I see right up to the origin of life itself. Here there's harmony governing the laws, at this heavenly level it's a unique component, be it luminous, vibratory, creative, it's there, omnipresent. This luminous and shimmering energy is organizing and breathing the ethereal aspect of my environment, the impression of flying, walking, and running is just a truth. I'm walking, running and flying with as little energy as I need to take one simple step on earth. The attractive energy, which is binding us to each state, thanks to its belonging to the vibration that fits it best, is organizing and tending to conceive a power of influence keeping me in a vertical position. I'm in my reality it is unique and indestructible. 
 
The absence of sorrow and bitterness is leveling out my awareness to the point of forgetting who and what I was before. I don't have the feeling of dreaming, I feel bathed in a reality, an evidence being so that my questioning is limited to accept my state, I have no anxiety, no question...
 
The invitation is getting more precise, filled with fluorescent fluids. This form shaped into a human resemblance is going with this environment, it is transmitting to me its desire that I should accept and go with it towards this majestic and shimmering nature... That nature is not comparable to the one I know well, it's opening unexpected perspectives, it's participating with harmony at the reality of forms and structures, and it’s allowing endlessly the creative field of beauty. 
 
Amazed by so many possibilities offered, this world isn't like anything that I know on earth. Even if there is an analogy to my former context, in order to facilitate my integration, I can't - even with my most extravagant human sensibility - open the field of my imaginary so far.
 
 I'm only in the suburbs of a vibratory state of welcome. It's the antechamber of the different levels of elevation, ordered by a vibratory frequency which is more pure, more subtle...
 
 This nature is overflowing with unexpected possibilities, my gaze is caught by every element, by the fluid (power) running within. This fluid, which I call divine particle, works towards harmony. Being in this bliss, I hear the solicitation... I'm not confused, as the love that I sense opens up an immense compassion within me; thanks to that compassion I feel protected and accompanied...
 
 In the shade of the tree...
 
 It's towards the 'shade' of this magnificent majestic tree with its resplendent leaves, planted into an enchanting scenery, that I feel irresistibly attracted. At its base a magic color, resembling closely a carpet of greenery, I feel inclined to stretch out. 
 
 The very essence seems to run through its branches, up to the tip of its leaves and their indefinable shades of color. It's on this multicolored and soft carpet that the invitation to sit down quickly resonates in me. Actually, it's not to lie down, but to profit of the beautiful panorama offered. I feel the need to straighten to hear the 'song of the angels', as it's reverberating in me in an unbelievable manner, totally. This song, whose amazingly rich spectral magnitude, is inviting me to 'calibrate' my consciousness on a perfect 'tuning fork'. 
 
 At my side is sitting a beautiful presence, the softness of its thought is appeasing the slight remaining tension, I sense it female and subtle.
 
 This 'song' is imprinting itself in my memory. Gradually the magnetism of its love invades the slightest fragment of my spirit, I sense that the 'opening' that was to follow would seduce me, orienting me towards revelations that I couldn't imagine on earth. This song couldn't but allow the full understanding of what would be communicated to me. My consent came through thought, generative and structurally I felt ready for the approach of omniscience...
 
 Bit by bit I'm becoming aware of a real need to understand, to hear and feel this world. This 'step into eternity' initiates my thinking by taking away all my inappropriate former memories. I'm looking for this lost memory; it is empty and cleaned... I still want to stick onto it... Gradually, despite the apprehension, I feel a beneficial cleaning.  
 
 The information communicated gives me the impression to find a lost knowledge, like a return towards an intimate home; I can but give in with such a truth. 
 
 Even if the memory of my terrestrial accuracy, this feeling of belonging doesn’t exist in this absence of time, it is full of emotions connected with my own history. Here, or rather now, this emotional stream passing me doesn't fade. To the contrary, it strengthens my entire being, and what I will become... 
 
Then there are all the stages from the negative towards the positive...the universal knowledge, cosmology, altered states, the vicious valleys, the terrestrial entourage, tedious levels, the levels of those killing themselves, the waiting and the support, the penetrating nature, the sparkling spheres and spaces, the source and the foundation, foundation and the expansion of all of it, the religious spheres, the return to materiality, the support of people at the end of life, the silence of the experiencers, the EMP: the spiritual journey, the moment of dying, dying with dignity... Those are the chapters of the first book.
 
 Excerpts of the 2nd book - Concession à perpétuité (Perpetual grant):
 
 What happened on that morning....
 
 It was this morning of the 3rd October 1999, an autumn morning where I was tipping over into death, into an imminent death, a death that was only temporary. What I understood in this experience, and what I experienced, transformed the view about what I believed to be, of what I was thinking about life and this possible life afterwards.
 
 The experience of near death, called temporary death, transforms the perception through our senses. To see and to feel yourself with exaltation from out of the body, this extraordinary feature of the out of body perception is beyond what you can imagine. The first approach is the visual watching and the sensation of sound. I contemplated from afar and slightly above, what I considered as a body; it was stretched out on a surgery table, surrounded by nervous people trying desperately to fight time. I understood that the situation was serious, yet this didn't disturb me; those people tried to save me and bring back my dying body back to life. 
 
 Without worry or anxiety, I was assisting this rescue with curiosity, this ballet of green and blue gowns. I could perceive well beyond this surgical environment, and this was disturbing me greatly. I saw beyond walls, beyond and through matter; I felt the thoughts of the people who were struggling about this body in difficulty. I perfectly understood the meaning of their thoughts and their knowledge; I perceived their exchanges, even beyond the walls, in the neighboring rooms; everything blended together and I was watching; everything was real.
 
 How to understand at that moment, what we are and what we will be in the time after?  
 
 When you feel this plenitude, of what the soul is, when out of the terrestrial envelope, you don't ask the question to know it, we do know, and this truth is staggering: we are existing outside of ourselves. 
 
 It happens that some persons are troubled and they are not aware that they changed dimension, specifically their vibratory state. Except in cases of violent death, this trouble is revealing a spiritual weakness. When they become aware, they admit that there is another personal area, another spiritual and vibratory dimension. 
 
 What a surprise when I saw myself lying between this incessant coming and going; at precisely this moment, I understood in what state I was. Nothing disturbing, but I didn't understand this change in appearance; there was no question, the answer was evident: amazed of being out of myself, but not lost nor taken aback; I was eager to explore the unbelievable resources of my magnified senses.
 
 These new tools now allowed me to understand this immaterial world. Past this astonishment and my acceptation, I was submerged; everything accelerated and the journey started. An energetic, luminescent, oblong shape was revealed, a harmonious sound accompanied me towards this luminescence, this attractive veil....
 
 I perceive energetic volutes, unbelievably vivid, vibrating with sounds of great amplitudes, forming a vault of a dark and luminescent blue. I understand that my soul left what I believed to be 'me'. It starts an ascent towards something magnificent, undetectable and which is very attractive. I sense this affective thought, the one of being in a place of plenitude. This allows me, in that moment, to understand that I'm not yet 'dead'. I am in a transitional state, an elevating exception.
 
 This transition consists of a dazzling enlightenment: There really and truly is a state after death, death is not the absence of life.....
 
 This revealing knowledge is guiding this vibratory elevation towards an extremely sparkling luminous point... very attractive. 
 
 At that moment, I was confronted with another knowledge: plenitude; it resembles the one I was taught in my religion. You can't imagine such concern; you can't imagine such well-being, through this moment of inversion from a state of matter towards an ethereal state. 
 
 I was simply thinking that death would be the toppling over into a state of rest, of silence, of sleep, and not the immediate glorification of the soul.
 
 Having crossed this energetic veil, this luminescence which is closing this energetic tunnel, this antechamber of the ethereal world, I feel being in a sparkling space without limits. Surrounding me are energetic and multicolored volutes evolving; magnetizing each other to engage with me. Perception of this proximity is great. It's a real bath of love, a shower of love where senses are extremely excited and magnified. 
 
  The first contact with this energy is very reassuring, so it's appeasing the anxiety of the unknown, of the improbable vision.
 
 A flamboyant arrival is revealing itself, this bright presence that I sense as female due to this appropriate delicacy and this nourishing attraction, appears to me with respect and kindness. I feel her as a sparkling form consisting of an unbelievably beautiful energy; she is shining like the transformation of love. Knowledge is pouring in a single moment; I understood everything about everything, the evidence of everything about everything. From surprise to surprise, information of an exuberant richness filled my awareness, my soul. 
 
 Then the curtain is opening towards the beautiful and the unbelievable. I'm in a landscape where nature is so vivifying, that you get the impression of being its creator. Colors are so brilliant that the notion of expansion is impossible to define; it is furtive. 
 
 I'm aware of my body, this twin body is reassuring me, like a certified copy of my mortal coil, whose soul is in harmony. 
 
 You could ask this question which today is resonating with many of us: 
 
 -But what is the soul? 
 
 ...
 
 The vibratory state. 
 
 What is vibration? What does it mean to say vibratory state? 
 
 In matter, on the scale of the atom, the main core is vibrating and reasons on a scale, established on a given knowledge and this scale is infinite. Water, the essential element of our life, has its composition, which is vibrating on a scale that we know well, the one of the liquid element. Thermally, this element changes its composition; it's becoming a gas, a vapor, another vibratory form, that has the particularity to re-transform by capillarity and condensation in a liquid state. During this transmutation, it kept its atomic structure. 
 
 The soul follows the same process. By its vibratory mode, it's changing its state because it is elevating. Component of matter, at the moment of spiritual warming up, it's transforming and is detaching from the mortal coil. This elevation is a vibratory rise, from an inferior state towards a superior state, what you call astral state or astral sphere. 
 
 From the atom to the Universe, matter is but vibration. The waves going through, and are endowed with a harmonious resonance. Its polarization and its magnetization bring forth a geometric construction, which is perfectly ordered. 
 
 In the world beyond, and according to your spiritual level, the energetic vibration puts you in relation to the most suitable spiritual sphere. When you speak of elevation, it's above all about a vibratory rising, an oscillatory rise perfectly in tune with those that are matching you and await you, all this, in a great concern of liberty and respect. 
 
 There's no 'machine' where you are entering and from where you are coming out transformed; no, there's only your mirror and your free will, which will bring you towards your vibratory elevation. 
 
 The full capacity of your previous spiritual experience is also taken into consideration. 
 
 ..../...
 
 Incarnation or reincarnation of the soul. 
 
 Quote: ’All desire is memorial. Every loved one is the reincarnation of an unsatisfied deceased one.’ Amélie Nothomb unquote. 
 
 For the human soul, going down in vibration and coming to the heavy undulation of matter, is not only a step towards devotion, but also an action for a salutary purpose. 
 
 Some will easily achieve this vibratory revival, but others would need much skill to escape reminiscences of memory. Those having a strong pronounced taste for power, material comfort will have to get rid of their inclinations, in order to escape this spiritual trap at the moment of incarnation. 
 
 This regressive ruse allows us to face elevation. 
 
 Why is reincarnation hiding the memories of our past lives, in matter or in the ethereal world, in our soul? 
 
 For two purposes: 
 
 The first one, is observation of what we are. The terrestrial journey is an act that had been decided, asked for, by every applicant soul, in order to face the attractions of material life. Without change, there is no possible elevation to understand why we are on earth and what path we will have to take, to develop our spiritual source, our spiritual brightness. 
 
The waking of spirituality is marked out by the positive approach of the hurdle to overcome, and its acceptation. To run away means to find yourself again on the way. 
 
 Vicissitudes of life allows the soul to develop its spirituality and to understand its sense. Fear and doubt can make us flee from evidence... 
 
 The second one, is connected with our vibratory state; going down again is a vibratory fall in which the soul, in accord with its free will, accepts to hide behind its knowledge so that it can exist. So the vibratory descent changes perception of things, and temporarily annihilates a knowledge acquired in a higher state. To not succumb at the alternative or the attraction of materialism, to live its spirituality is a daily battle. 
 
 In their incarnated life, souls that are aware of their previous bad choices, are radically changing the orientation of social, denominational, and sometimes family life. Spiritual emptiness induces facility and the obsessive quest for power. The different incarnated lives should raise spirituality, but the dark energies are watching and encourage us to possess more and to endow us with a deceptive envelope.  
 
 So, that this sequence of spiritually moribund lives, will finish in the crucible of destruction. All those lives devoid of a deep sense will be wiped out. 
 
 Anchored since a long time in these states of pleasure, some will finish to get rid of this feeling of self-complacence and could finally access, after multiple reincarnations, the vibratory scale of spirituality. The choice of reincarnation is not a fact of chance. The soul is strongly attracted towards a family, social and cultural status in which it has already evolved. Its emotional consciousness will make it choose his ephemeral parents, its siblings. Its spiritual search and the vibratory level will indicate its ideal place of life. It will have full awareness of the obstacles, and love will bring it back into material life. 
 
The free will can cause some traps. Quite often, the soul doesn't evaluate the scope of its choices, it's overestimating itself and is coming back into a material life loaded with, sometimes insurmountable, difficulties. To compensate these errors, some guides have a clear duty of clarification. They are directing while respecting each one, they are suggesting. This liberty of choice brings controversy. The soul often is tending to believe more in itself than in others. 
 
 Incarnation or reincarnation take place after a few months of maternal gestation, the entering into the material light is then taking its entire dimension. Intelligence, spiritual intuition will help to overcome the obstacles of such an apprenticeship and will transform it into a being of light. 
 
 These cycles turn out being redeeming for most of us. But some are kept in the trap of the ambiguous choice of reincarnation and are taken back into an inferior state. 
 
Some choices allow a spiritual decline. This could be either due to a spiritual stagnation, or to the soul being given a new mission, which it then will perceive in its new incarnation. 
 
 Spiritual choices, other than reincarnation. 
 
 But there are also other spiritual paths. 
 
 What are these ways? 
 
 In turn, fascinated or filled with compassion, souls offer those that are suffering a solicitude filled with love, which will open to them the lights of redemption. They are working actively in the spheres of lower vibrations, where the applicant souls intoxicate themselves with terrestrial pleasures. They will associate into a homogeneous group. They will apply themselves to bring - with their intrinsic qualities – the souls imprisoned and nostalgic of their material life, towards the opening of a dawning spirituality. Subjected to a harmful energy, hope of another spiritual life will free them from their terrestrial bonds. 
 
 The accomplished work will concretize in thousands of sparks. This way it will allow the new applicants to elevate together with their accompanying soul.
 
What are these magical landscapes? 
 
Nature ruling there, is the same as on earth, but the ambient harmony and luxuriance give us the illusion of being their creator, each element is finding its ideal place. 
 
 We can feel the immense energy that is invigorating them, as if it was part of ourselves. The projection of our thought, tunes in harmoniously with their vibration. This resonance, this agitation, is an essential component of the energy, which is circulating, in this overabundant nature. 
 
 Mountains follow upon valleys, they adapt themselves to this other environment without constraint, they juxtapose perfectly with the one on earth and on other planets of our Universe, everything in a subtle mix of matter and spirit. The horizon and distances, take on another dimension as the one of matter; depths, widths are multiplied beyond our understanding. 
 
 Astonishingly, our eye perception is circular; far from destabilizing us, we understand the instant that we experience, and towards what we are projecting. We mentally master the shifts in space, but with more acuity when we have to observe and assimilate. It is disturbing to travel at superluminal speeds and to understand the other slope. What would take a researcher on earth thousands of years, to understand all subtlety, is brought back to an instant. 
 
 This slow progression is needed for the apprehension of our new state. The depth of the field of vision is then beyond anything imaginable, from the closest to the farthest, in an infinitesimal conception. The expansion of our environment is closely related to our spiritual level. The higher it is, the more we master far horizons. 
 
 Schematically, you can use the analogy with the letter V: the lower level corresponds with the crossing of the two lines forming the letter, and their extremities represent the infinite. So, the higher the soul is rising, the more the horizon is moving away and the more perception is growing (it is very close in the lower states). 
 
 The landscapes evolve according to the level of vibration wherein you are. Their creator reveals talents outside of our imagination. Their beauty is getting finer and finer to arrive in the superior states to a sublime harmony (supra-harmony), which is exceptional. There are no qualifying human words to transcribe it. 
 
 In these fabulous decors that take in zillions of souls, there is only Light as horizon. The cities, these towns that light the landscapes, are at the same time similar and different. They respect this nature with softness. Richness of such diversity magnifies those areas of life. No gigantism as on earth, but a cast and luminescent urbanism is perfecting this impression. 
 
 The energy underlying undefinable colors is reflecting on these sparkling towns. Nature answers our expectations; everything is life, harmony, light in a perfect symbiosis with the environment: the soul. 
 
 Joy, well-being, freedom, trust are ruling. Artistic capacities are tenfold and creations multiply through expansion in a swirl of novelties and originality. 
 
 The elevated souls give their luminosity to these celestial cities. Their density remains constant; their inhabitants organize themselves: work, play, singing, sleep, eating give rhythm to this celestial life, with always the concern about the other soul sisters, the one about siblings. This installed concord is harmonizing constantly the rhythm of spiritual life. 
 
 In the high spiritual spheres, those elaborated by the divine thought, souls never stop to help the progression of those from the lower levels. They work tirelessly in community towards the best, the divine apogee. 
 
Their travels to other planets and other Universes, their artistic development, their personal deepening contribute to the spiritual growth of their applicants. Each family keeps its identity, and while enjoying divine power, it accedes to the creation of all kinds of life and every material aspect. The absoluteness of its knowledge and their cohesion, allow it to merge with the All, while keeping its singularity, its meaning with God, beyond the quantum and beyond the infinitesimal....  
 
.../...   
 
  The process of death is developed as follows: 
 
 What we perceive in the very first moment of dying, when the soul is definitely leaving its terrestrial envelope, is the transport into an energy of love, an immeasurable love that we recognize and which is giving us a total absence of pain, unpleasant sensations and fear. 
 
Whether death is gentle, brutal or vaporous, this energy is facilitating us the access from one vibratory state into another one. It is only a necessary passage to reach our goal. This vibratory rising needs our total adhesion and the authenticity of our feelings. Like a movie scrolling rapidly in front of our eyes, the truth what we truly are, appears clearly to us and this evidence will serve us as a revelation.  
 
 We become aware of our failures and our achievements, of our life whether wasted or accomplished, our kindness towards others and ourselves. I will describe the process of the redeeming act further on. 
 
This analysis and self-criticism will influence our choice and future...
 
Just, going near this unbelievably abject energy. 
 
 My perception is hazy, but I 'went down' into the lower area only to understand and learn: To understand why wickedness is a powerful feeling, which is blinding the soul and is keeping from all spiritual desire. At that precise moment, I see, like an allegory, the terrible and destructive energy, which inhabits those unhappy souls. 
 
 Despite the kindness and the protection of my guides, I can't imagine such blackness. 
 
Sensing this unbelievable rancor is unbearable. But I have to face it. I have to get out of this mess, and all the protection that is surrounding me, preserves me and protects me from suffering at the deepest level. 
 
 I understand that successive reincarnations brought along these corrupt states. The souls had faced the divine choice, whether to redo a more spiritual journey or to perpetuate the murderous abominations, that they were guilty of doing in their previous life. 
 
 The false representation of the divine is the worst curse that the soul has to face. In the name of a vengeful God, lash out at the weakest, misusing the credulity of the naive, eliminate in order to dominate, manipulating minds with perversity, divide in order to rule, are the characteristics of a soul devoid of any sensibility. When during the course of its successive lives, it keeps this attitude; it will have no chance to gain access to the indulgence of God. It will be doomed to nothingness and destruction. 
 
 How many are those spiritual tyrants and charterers, that are as abject as their fame? 
 
 The slayers of denominational truth, practicing Sharia or crusade, are they in those states of absolute blackness?  
 
 I truly believe this, as I was confronted with this monstrosity; I sensed this abjection when I was facing this shining defensive wall. They were imprisoned in their morbid truth. 
 
 Despite the infinite divine goodness, some reincarnated souls kept being slaves of the fatal energy inhabiting them. From one life towards another, they remained entangled in their belligerent instinct. 
 
 In history of man, we can find these powerful collective currents of thought, dedicated to the conquest of power and domination. From despotic invaders with immoderate ambition, to the religious slayers of Christianity, Islam and other religions (crusades, Jihad and Sharia…), in turn victims and executioners, all practiced systematic slaughter. The weakest between them, misused by the most satanic and perverse, are thus convinced to gain the coveted and expected paradise, the house of the thousand virgins. 
 
 These situations perpetrate in our history, alternating calm and agitated periods of prosperity and recession. 
 
 The only way leading towards a lasting peace is the one of respect of life and nature, of what creates it, is distinguishing and characterizing it. 
 
 Beyond these apocalyptic visions, I nevertheless felt an ounce of hope that I even can't explain to myself. 
 
 It would suffice in our terrestrial life, that those obsessed by their absolute quest for power and material possessions, become aware of the chimeric character of such goods. Then the world could believe in an upturn. These obsessed people wouldn't stop destroying themselves, as long as we will not aspire to a less absurd future. 
 
 Impermanence is a state described by Buddhism like a consecration towards progress, towards elevation. The black souls are refuting all change and are stuck in the inferior states. They are not recognizing personal self-realization....  
 
 Then all the other chapters: 
 
  Inverted search of love - Devil or daemons, Magi and Gurus, Ephemeral and intermediate levels, these vibratory passages and ways of transition towards the high spheres, induce a particular vibratory rising - The elevation and the diversification of the soul – What is this concept of elevation – Diversification of the soul - About the notion of distance and time -The spheres of plenitude and sharing, harmonious details organizing these spheres in magnificent landscapes - Construction in religious spheres - Approaching the high spheres and the approximation of divine representation - Supra harmony - How does our eternity unwind? Wait and see or active? - How to sense the spiritual level to which you belong? - What are these celestial souls looking for in their communications? - The creative thought. - Is there an extraterrestrial presence? - Reason and perception of Universes, of worlds - Universe, Universes - Eternity and infinity - What is and what will be - the self and the being – Love - The state of spiritual blackness - Voluntary departure -The process of life and death. Perpetual grant - Vain is only, who is not searching.

&nbsp;

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	 October 3, 1999

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Surgery-related       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Surgery related

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Yes, you can see through matter, you feel the thought of other incarnates, senses are very expanded.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the moment of my death

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Quite some time according to what you feel.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     As far, as also close: from the atom to the Universe.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    In the same sense as with vision, harmonious symphonies

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     More than a tunnel, it seemed oblong of blue color and very energetic, similar to swirls that limited the wall.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A friend who died 35 years before

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   At the beginning and at the end of the tunnel

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It cannot be compared with the terrestrial sphere: Where love rules everything in everything.

The experience included:       Hellish imagery

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Immense gratitude, wrapped in love

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew everything about everything, no question about what life is and all its components, of what Universe and the others are, I knew the why and how.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     Very fast when noticing the work to perform for love

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     That is very difficult to explain, they are fragmented in memory with the difficulty to connect them with an era, except those that are significant, like attacks or changes in society.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   Actually no, but there was a boundary, a body similar in its form to the earthly body and as tangible  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Catholique pratiqua,t de temps en temps

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     A religious reality took place, no dogma anymore, and a humble relation with this spiritual form.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Catholique pratique plus intense

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Of Catholic religion I only kept the word love, this is true, but the dogmas bother me a lot, because on the other side there is only humility.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The attraction of material things changed profoundly, acceptation of what I have become is directing me more and more towards sharing this experience. Meanwhile, giving relief, help and accompanying people at the end of their life.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Encounter with a very luminous being, then with three other ones, of which a friend deceased 35 years before.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Without defining who they were, I felt an embrace that extremely increased the feeling of love. They were several; too luminous to describe them physically.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     une relecture de vos vies antérieures

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     We are a single unit, which holds the stories of our lives and is sharing with the 'whole'. This whole being is composed of billions and billions of very specific units.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     It's the first encounter with an energy, at the threshold of the tunnel you enter in a heart of love as big as the Universe and much more...you are integrating divine energy. God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The science of love

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Understand what love is and share it at every moment. This is what changed the direction of my life after the experience.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     At the moment of death, the most beautiful day of our life is starting... the perception of what you are, is much more than what you feel on earth as incarnate... It is a more thorough knowledge of ourselves without false pretenses, nor lying or obfuscation.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     The only answer I can give: to hurt others is to do it first unto yourself... Everything should be forgiven, but before, you have to forgive yourself, in order to love yourself better, and to love yourself better is to better love the others, and to love the others is to forgive them. So that's what I understood during and after the experience.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     The only answer I can give: to hurt others is to do it first unto yourself. Everything should be forgiven, but before, you have to forgive yourself, in order to love yourself better, and to love yourself better is to better love the others, and to love the others is to forgive them. So that's what I understood during and after the experience.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     What did you do for love, what did you do for yourself and the others.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Already surrounding family, and then friends try to run away, and relations become truer with sympathetic people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   How to describe the incomparable, to compare with what is on earth means to minimize the reality of this experience.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the ex  With it being engraved in my memory, this experience is and ever will be the most beautiful thing of my life. because the experience is not finished.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Reading the life of others, clairaudience and clairvoyance, precognition.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    More than ten persons, then silence having created a denial, then back to sharing, due to a 'pushing' from the other side, and the unconditional prompt for sharing.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience is of an intimate type, which accepts no lie or any fabrication.... It's not considered as a dream nor a waking dream, such importance has its cognitive structure. Imagery is outside of terrestrial reality and its comprehension is of a cognitive order. You know, you recognize, and you are in harmony with this experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I came back with particular capacities, described above, this is no coincidence. It's so strongly engraved in yourself, that it is an integral part of your daily life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It is quite consequent as a questionnaire; you simply do a very important work of information, which should be made known to the general public.

  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vincent_h_nde.html