{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vincent_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Vincent K NDE 4936","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vincent K NDE 4936  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Vincent K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2548 Vincent K NDE 4936  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					About five minutes into my recovery period from a stress-test on an exercise bike, my eyesight began to cloud over, starting from the outside corners. I lost my balance and had a change in cardiac reading, which alerted the nurse.

Then I was in a 'place' in the presence of other persons, who were smiling and very luminous, but with a soft light. I don't remember faces, but I remember the benevolence of the way they looked at me. We were floating without the actual sensation of floating. We were just nowhere, which gave a floating feeling, as there was no limit in space, no ground, and no soft sky overhead. There was no notion of time either, which is strange. It was impossible to say whether it lasted one minute or eternally, as time really does not exist. There was no feeling of time passing. I felt intense happiness, or rather well-being.

I heard someone calling me at a certain point. I could hear my name, and that is when I opened my eyes and saw three heads above me, and the aggressive neon light. I did not recognize anyone, and it took me some seconds to realize that I was in the hospital. I was sorry I had been recalled to this place, and I wanted to go back. I felt a great sadness at coming back to reality, and then uncontrollable laughter on realizing the experience I had been through. On seeing the exercise-bike and myself lying down, I asked the nurse to confirm that I should have been on the bike. She explained that I had passed out. She had caught me as I fell and then, with the help of the doctors, carried me to the bed and tried to resuscitate me with slaps. They had been quite worried, especially the nurse.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  25/11/2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    après un test d'effort  Other: perte de connaissance  It's impossible to say. The doctors and nurses had never come across this happening before after a stress test. The most they expected was a bit of dizziness, not the kind of loss of consciousness I suffered. I don't know whether I stopped breathing, or whether my heart stopped for a brief instant. There was danger, but I do not believe it was mortal, given that I was in a hospital surrounded by doctors who were able to assist.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I could not describe how lucid I was since I did nothing, I simply observed the faces observing me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was an absence of time, rather infinity.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There was a very soft light which does not exist in reality - a cottony, pastel color. There were no boundaries, nor finitude.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound, just feelings. I had the impression of being called from far away at first, then more and more clearly, until I opened my eyes.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were in front of me. I don't remember their faces. I don't think I recognized them, but I am no longer sure. After regaining consciousness, the faces were quickly erased from my memory. There were no words but a feeling of pleasure in communication.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt fulfilment, surprise and joie at the sight of the benevolent gazers. I felt I had found my place.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     If I have really had an NDE, I am relieved because one feels so good.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     If I have really had an NDE, I am relieved because one feels so good.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The boundaries of reality were no longer there. Time was absent. I was present, but there was no sense of place or space - I was in infinity. I had a feeling of fulfilment which is indescribable, unique.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After a few minutes, they were worried.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     There was a feeling of reality and of wanting to go back, when I was brought back to myself.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vincent_k_nde.html