{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1violette_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Violette S NDE 7979","mylang":"de"}
          	        Violette S NDE 7979  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Violette S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4139 Violette S NDE 7979  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In August 1976, I had just been divorced for the second time. I had just left my four-year-old daughter with my parents.  Then I went to fill up with gas.  I left with my beige-colored Ford Fiesta and then decided to go to say good-bye to a girlfriend.  On the way into town, I needed to take a left hand turn.  This was located at the entry of the town and in a sharp descent for those that were coming into town.  I didn't see anything coming, so I turned left.  I noticed too late that a white car was coming and it hit my car with great impact.  It spun me around 180 degrees and ended in a wall near an electrical box.  At that moment that I was slamming on the brakes, and as I had no seat belt on, I went upwards.  I collided with the steering wheel in my stomach and the chin. When the car stabilized, the motor was still running. I wanted to shut off the motor but discovered that I couldn't do this move. At that moment, a car of the Red Cross came along.  The doctor got out with a stethoscope to get my blood pressure. 

I saw the doctor and the people who were around me, but I was already gone.  I heard the doctor saying 'She's done, I don't feel anything.'  I saw a lighted tunnel. I had no weight. I didn't see myself but knew that I was floating.  It seemed imperative to me to go to the tunnel. A few seconds later, I was stopped.  I heard a voice saying, 'No we cannot keep you.  You have to experience terrible and painful moments.  You have to get back down [to your body]. We can't do anything for you.  That's it.' I was screaming, 'No, I want to stay!' Again, I was told, 'No, you can't stay.' I kept refusing to go back .  Then I was sent back with power and high impact, between the two eyes.  Later, I learned that there's a chakra there. 

There I heard the doctor saying, 'She's coming back.'  I felt all my fractures and my body that was hurting.  I was alive and scared. Help arrived. I was taken out of the car and that was terrible. Everything happened, and I experienced terrible times and suffered a lot. I know that there is a life after death; that's all to my story.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  aout 1976

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.           Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Car accident

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  See Experience  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was, at the same time, on the astral plane and on the terrestrial plane.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I went upwards in the Light tunnel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I don't know.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Very strong.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A light tunnel, very strong and in the distance.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt so good up there that I wanted to stay.  They didn't accept me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I simply was sent back, I didn't want to, but they refused.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   catholique non pratiquante

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I'm a Catholic and I believe in rebirth, this comforted me.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I accepted my experiences often with serenity, sometimes with anguish, but I always pulled through.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I knew that I had to accept suffering and act the best I could.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     My magnetism increased and I developed a terrestrial vision on people, close to me or not, beyond time.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I knew that I had to accept suffering and act the best I could.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I had a certain elation, and death didn't scare me anymore, I was certain to get back to the light tunnel.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    My view of a couple in divorce dulled.  I asked around about what I had experienced and was told that I had hallucinated; this answer didn't satisfy me. I started searching.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I'm able to see what is hidden, diseases, death and joy or success; I also can see certain things in premonitory dreams.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My deceased father came back to see me at night, took me in his arms, and I only could see the upper part of his body.  He talked to me and said, 'My daughter you did what had to be done', and I was crying about it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my husband, I told it to him, he believed me; this power, that my father talked to me and hugged me, gave me the conviction that I had been chosen.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was satisfied and serene, it was completely real, even if I was told that I had a hallucination; I was sure that I had not been dreaming nor hallucinating.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I tried to help certain people and even beyond the computer I can do it, I'm healing burns and that is quite real...

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   This is a gift for me, I know that I'm different from others, in 1976, nobody was talking about this, and I was holding on, with my personal faith.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Why me? Why didn't they keep me up there with them?

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None.  Everything is perfect.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1violette_s_nde.html