{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vilous_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Vilous R NDE 20910","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vilous R NDE 20910  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Vilous R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						659  Vilous R NDE  20910  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Well I had just got to the hospital that night via the rescue squad and I was really sick. I had to stay in the emergency room all night because there were no rooms available. When morning came, they moved me to my room and everything was fine. They brought my food up and I talked to my girlfriend at the time.  After we finished talking, I fell flat on my face and I blanked out. All I know is I was looking at myself being worked on.  I was in North Carolina when it first happened.  I was blind for a week and lost the use of both of my legs.  My first out of body experience was when God showed me where I would be going if I didn't get my life together.  During the second experience, God showed me again about the people who were trying to save my life. I thank God for saving my life. Without him and the doctors, I wouldn't be here today. My girlfriend at the time prayed a lot for me to. I have a disease, but I'm doing well, thank God.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    may 27 2001

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' I was between life and death.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It was like something on television but real. I watched the doctors work on me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very low.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I was sitting in the air with God.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard people when I was back in my body.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Hell, and a light at the end of the tunnel. I could see hell, but God wouldn’t let me feel the heat. It was wet and nasty. You don’t want to go to hell.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light can fool so don’t go near the light unless you are ready.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I just felt different.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Just remember that my life changed for the better that day.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   I love church

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   I love church

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I wanted to live and to get my life together.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part is the chance to see where my life was heading. The worst is that you think it could never happen to you.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They were surprised and wanted to know more.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      That I wish everybody could have this experience.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Yes. Why was I chosen?

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vilous_r_nde.html