{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vikash_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Vikash C NDE 22776","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vikash C NDE 22776  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Vikash C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3212 Vikash C NDE 22776  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I fell onto a metal railing in the city of London.  I came home from a mate’s place and couldn't get into my flat (the misses wouldn't answer the buzzer), so me being clever, no sorry - me thinking I was clever, tried to climb up the front of the building. So now, I've stood on the railing. So now let me explain about the railing if you know the city of London you will have a better understanding of the picture. Anyway, you have a load of old Victorian houses joined side by side at the entrance you have an iron railing about five foot high on both sides with spikes. Right know the building is three stories high with a basement. So when I stood on the railing I had a drop of about twelve feet on one side then five feet on the other. Then up in front of me about one foot away was the balcony to first floor window. For some reason, I jumped up to the balcony and grabbed it.  I didn't realize that it was made of cast iron.  It broke off in my hand. I fell backwards towards the railing I was standing on so I naturally turned to my front, if not I would of landed backwards and may not of been here now telling my story. I landed left side down on railing; it pierced my clothing through my ribs breaking them and as this happened I pushed myself off. Suddenly, I stop breathing fell and the next thing I saw was I on the other side of the road on top of the building like a bird on the roof looking down across the road at myself. So know I'm thinking to myself it’s not time for me to go yet then all of a sudden I woke up in hospital. Thank God, to passing people who pulled the passing paramedics? Now that's another story.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  About 1991

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.     Not too sure but was impaled on a railing missed heart  by 1 inch had experience and woke up in hospital

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Like being a bird in the sky.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was fully alert. I knew it was a bad fall.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright vision.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confused.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   People often don't understand the truth.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Actually seeing the experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Family and friends.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vikash_c_nde.html