{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V31 1939-40","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v31_1939-40.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V31 1939-40","mylang":"de"}
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOL. XXXI
1939— 1940
For Private Circulation among Member;;
and Associates only
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
All rights reserved
CONTENTS
PAGE
A Well-Evidenced Precognitive Dream - . - - 2
Mr Tyrrell's Electrical Apparatus - _ - . . g
Case : A Coincidence of Dreams - - - - - - 14
Annual Report of the Council for 1938 - - - - 16
Case : An Apparition of a Dead Person Seen in Daylight by
Two Percipients -------- 33
Case : A Doctor's Impression Suggesting Distant Telepathy
from a Patient -------- 34
Case : A Dream Anticipating Future Event - - - 47
Case : A Veridical Impression of Non-Existent Words in a
Letter ---------- 53
Experiments in Automatic Writing ; by Geraldine Cummins 62
Incidents of Bygone Days ;
by Count Perovslcy-Petrovo-
Solovovo - -- -- -- --79
Case : The Detection of a Theft through Information Given
by a Medium - -- -- - ..g]^
Case : The Question of Motive in an Apparently Precognitive
Dream ;
by Zoe Richmond ------ 33
Case : A Communicator Introduced in Automatic Script - 91
The Case of the Stolen Jewels : A Further Note - - - 95
A New Type of Proxy Case ;
by C. Drayton Thomas - - 103
The Position of Psychical Research ; by W. H. Salter - - 106
A New Type of Proxy Case—Some Further Details - - 120
Case : Missmg Papers Located by an Apparently Paranormal
Process ; by W. H. Salter - - - - - -
123
Annual Report of the Council for 1939 - - - -
134
o
iv Contents
•
; „• .•>.,''•' '•'>•> PAGE
A Case for Survival < -" " i "
i : . . - 142
Case: Coincident DrfeaiHi&;' ''
-r.. "I'^i''-] _ . . 161
A Glimpse into the Future? By 1\R.C. - - - 163
Case : The Missing Water Valve - - - - - - 178
Freak Bridge Hands ;
by AV. Whately Carington - - 181
Sir Ohver Lodge's " Sealed Envelope " - - - _ 192
A New Research Fund ------- 203
Paranormal Cognition : Some Comments on Mr Carington"s
and iVIr Soal's Recent Experimental Results - - - 204
New Members - - - 14, 30, 46, 78, 101, 118, 177, 191, 203
Meetings of the Council - 14, 30, 46, 78, 90, 102, 158, 177, 178
Meetings of the Society - 14, 24, 31, 46, 62, 79, 90, 159, 160,
178, 191
Correspondence - - 8, 25, 37, 54, 106, 125, 166, 183, 192, 209
Reviews - 10, 41, 56, 75, 96, 113, 126, 153, 174, 187, 194, 210
Obituaries ------ 118, 134, 160, 190, 191
Erratum - - - - - - - - - - 176
Index - 216
No. 551.—Vol. XXXI January 1939
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
On WEDNESDAY, 25 January, 1939, at ^.jo p.m.
• - . WHEN
Mr C. V. C. HERBERT
WILL SPEAK ON
" Recent Work Carried Out by the Society
"
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission zvill be issuedfor this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea
will be served from ^.45 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1939
NOTICE OF FEBRUAEY MEETING
The attention of Members is called to the statutory notice of the
Annual General Meeting of the Society, which accompanies this issue
of the Journal. The Meeting mil be held on the 22nd February.
A WELL-EVIDENCED PRECOGNITIVE DREAM
Dr. W. H. C. Tenhaeff, the holder at Utrecht University of the
first academic appointment to be allotted to psychical research, and
an Hon. Associate of the S.P.R., reports below a case which has
come under his own observation. Most of our readers cannot avail
themselves of the account in Dutch ^ which was briefly mentioned in
our " Notes on Periodicals " last November ; and besides the evi-
dential interest of the case Dr Tenhaeff puts forward an interesting
problem about the kind of precognition that may be involved.
In dreaming of an accident much resembling one which occurred
two days after the dream, is the dreamer to be thought of as making
use of her own future knowledge of the event—that is, as anticij^ating
the impressions that she herself will later receive on learning of the acci-
dent—or as making use of some clairvoyant prevision of the scene,
which she did not in fact see when it subsequently occurred ? The acci-
dent was not fatal in reality, but in the dream it was. Dr Tenliaeff
and a co-worker of his point out that a confused impression that the
accident was fatal could well be received by an eye-witness, whereas
the published news of the accident did not convey the idea of a fatality.
The point cannot be definitely judged in this case, since the
dreamer first learned of the accident through her husband's verbal
report of the news, and we do not know what impression she first
received from his words ; and in any case the dream-mind itself
may be looked to as the most likely source of emotional and dramatic
additions to the verifiable details in a dream. But it is a point for
further observation, whether evidence for precognition suggests only
a paranormal anticipation of the percipient's oAvn future experience,
or requires a theory of " second sight " by which the percipient
observes future event directly as it wll occur.
The following is Dr Tenhaeff's report of the case :
On 18 November 1937, Mrs 0. of Amsterdam was put in touch
with me by a lady whom she had met. Dr J. D., a physician at
Amsterdam, had also advised her to communicate with me. Mrs 0.
is a very simple woman (her husband is a house-painter), mother of
three children. From what she told me, she was in a nervous con-
^ Tijdschrijt voor Parapsychologie, x, 4. 161.
January 1939 A Well-Evidenced Precognitive Dream 3
dition which certain people were inclined to attribute to medium-
ship, developing and not understood.
Mrs 0. seemed very susceptible to hypnosis. I made some simple ex-
periments with her, intended as preliminary trials, advised her not to
have deaUngs with certain dabblers in parapsychology who appeared
to be anxious to commiserate with her, and promised that I would
investigate the question of her possessing latent paranormal faculties.
On 19 November 1937, Dr J. D. wrote to me as follows :
" Mrs 0. —W. has requested me to write to you about her. I lay
particular stress on the fact that I am not her family doctor, but
only acted as go-between to obtain her admission some months ago
to a women's clinic, for a shght uterine disorder. She was operated on
imder h}qDnosis. Meanwhile I found that she had already been under
treatment for a long time by a doctor in this place who had regularly
hypnotised her. Recently she came to me spontaneously for advice
about her psychical constitution. She felt, internally, extremely on
edge and was anxious for some means of self-expression. I had a few
interviews "with her and she proved to be very easily susceptible to
hypnosis. The only thing I could do was to talk with her and to
warn her as to the influence of others. When she asked me what I
thought about her applying to you I immediately gave my approval.
... I can't tell anything more about her but I hope that she can get
from you the help which she so ardently desires."
On Saturday evening, 27 November 1937, I received a letter from
Mrs 0. rujming as foUows :
" I intended writing to you yesterday by way of a safety-valve.
You will understand this, I expect, for of course I am in a very
tense condition. But I have had to wait until to-day in order to
write you something else. You had told me that I was to pay
attention to my dreams. Now I had a dream last night, and every-
thing was so clear that I have a vivid recollection of it."
(Numbers are inserted iu Mrs O.'s foUowing account of her dream,
for future reference.)
"I saw a level-crossing (1) and a long road (2) and meadows (3).
Behind the gate (4) to the left stood a working lorry (5). A car came
driving very quickly (6) which was in a hurry to cross (7), but in the
middle a tjTe burst and the car drove full speed into the gate (8)
and into the lorry (9) which was standing behind. Someone was
killed on the spot (10). I saw him lying there, and it was Prince
Bernhard (11). "VMiat do you think of that? Also deception? I
hope this letter wiU not be of any value and that it will be indeed
a deception. I write this really for the same reason as that letter to
that old lady (12). But as a safety-valve too, for otherwise I walk
A 2
4 Journal of Society Jot Psychical Research January 1939
about all day long with it and see it always before me. Now I sMft
it on to you. You will certainly be able to deal with it better than I.
Don't you think it silly that I have written all this to you but I am
so glad that you will help me. ... I am glad that I have written
to you, and it makes me somewhat calmer again.—Yours faithfully,
(Signed) Mrs 0."
This letter was dated :
" Amsterdam, 27 November 1937 " and it
appears from the postmark that it was posted in the morning hours
(probably under the first impression of the dream). I put the letter
away in my desk. On Monday morning, 29 November 1937, I
heard, by chance, the wireless report (9.45 a.m.) that Prince Bern-
hard had met with a motor accident. The letter of Mrs 0., of which
I had not thought since that evening, was immediately brought out.
Although, happily, we cannot speak here of a prophetic vision
fulfilled in complete detail, it will be for many an obvious presump-
tion that we have to deal with a prophetic dream with its details
partially correct—what is called a Dunne effect.^
Let us trace exactly, on a basis of the particulars supplied by the
newspapers, what Mrs 0. foretold and what occurred in reality.
The figures between brackets inserted in Mrs O.'s letter wUl simplify
this for us.
(1) The accident took place in the immediate neighbourhood of
the viaduct of the railway-line Hilversum-Amsterdam.
A photograph reproduced in the paper Het Nieuws van den Dag of
30 November 1937, shows us (2) a long road with
(3) Meadows. This is the highroad from Diemen to Amsterdam.
(4) In the photograph a gate ^ is to be seen.
(5) In front of this viaduct, work was being done on the railway
embankment. Sand was being dug, and loaded on to lorries. A
moment before the Prince's car passed, a lorry driven by the driver
D.Z. had descended the improvised starting place. The man in
charge of the work, Mr de Baat, was arranging for the lorry to cross
safely. He waited a moment for a car coming from Amsterdam
;
after that the lorry crossed the road, turned to the left and was
standing so that it faced in the direction of Amsterdam, when the
right front wing of Prince Bernhard's car collided with the rear
of the lorry on the left hand side.
(6) The Prince's two-seater was travelling at a great speed. A
1 J. W. Dunne, An Experiment with Time.
^ The gate by which the lorry emerged on to the road, from the foot of the rail-
way embankment. There is no level- crossing in the photograph, which shows,
however, a railway bridge crossing the road close to the scene of the accident.
Another raQway line rims, unfenced, alongside the road. Ed.
January 1939 A Well-Evidenced Precognitive Dream 5
motorist behind liim speaks of 90 km. {Het Nieuws van den Dag,
30 November 1937.)
(7) It was not the Prince's car but the lorry that crossed the road.
(8) There is nothing said of the bursting of a tyre or a collision
with a gate.
(9) As we have seen, the Prince's car did colHde with the lorry.
(10) Incorrect.
(11)
" Meanwhile, people came rushing from a house in the
neighbourhood with blankets and mattresses, and the two wounded
men were laid on them to await the arrival of the doctors." {Het
Nieuws van den Dag.)
(12) This refers to a spontaneous telepathic experience which she
said she had had in relation with an old lady whom she knew, and
seemed to perceive lying very ill in bed. She could have obtained
this knowledge only in a paranormal manner. I have not been able
to verify this case, which must have happened a long time ago.
On Tuesday, 30 November 1937, I received a letter from Mrs 0.
(dated 29 November 1937) as follows :
" You will have received my letter of Saturday. You can imagine
my fright when my husband, coming home at noon, said that Prince
Bernhard had met with a motor accident. I could not believe it at
first and thought he was joking. I had not heard it on the wireless.
It had to be that I should not write to you on Friday. I wrote the
letter on Saturday morning when I was not yet even dressed, I had
such an impulse. You can see now that nearly everything harmon-
ises. That lorry too, and close by it the gate and also close by the
railway viaduct. I am quite upset about it and had not thought
to get a proof so soon of what you had told me. Did not it startle
you? Could I speak to you? You understand that I am in great
need of it. I had told it on Saturday to my husband and a few
other people, not thinking that it would be realised so soon. On
Sunday morning I had the same thing constantly in my mind's eye.
Then I said to my husband :
'
How wretched—I am always seeing
that motor accident! '
I have told it to Dr J. D. He thought it
very remarkable. I only hope that the rest will not come true and he
(i.e. Prince Bernhard) wUl soon be better. But now I see that all
dreams are not deception. ..."
As I have remarked above, the presumption will be clear to many
that we are here concerned with a prophetic dream, partially correct
in detail, referring to the accident met with by Prince Bernhard on
29 November 1937. Nevertheless it cannot be said with certainty
that we have to do here with a Dunne effect. We must take into
consideration the possibility that this is a case of " second sight ".
6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1939
According to Dunne it has to be assumed that the subject has an-
ticipated, in a paranormal manner, her own future knowledge of facts.
This could only be her future knowledge of the report in the paper,
and the first report of the accident from her husband (see her letter
of 29 November), for she was not an eye-witness. Would reading
about the accident (and hearing of it) after the event have led to
such an emotional dream? Presumably not. Why then should it
do so before the event? My co-operator Mr J. C. M. Kruisinga, who
has studied Dunne effects thoroughly, is of the opinion " that it is
more a case of '
second sight ' than a classic Dunne elfect in the
sense that Dunne conceives. When we read that the subject sees
a tyre burst and says the driver was killed on the spot, we think
rather of the account of a confused eye-witness than of the account
of a newspaper reader. Anyone who obtained the news from a paper
immediately had the impression that the accident was not fatal. I
myself read the report in the Handelshlad and did not get any im-
pression of a fatal accident—it was not until later that we came to the
conclusion that the driver had escaped death by a miracle. It would
be of great importance to know exactly what the subject's husband
told her about the accident, when he came home on the Monday."
During the months of December, January and February Mrs 0.
came to see me repeatedly, and I utilised these visits in trying to
trace the subjective factors to which we could attribute her dreaming
of just this accident. To my regret I have not sufficiently succeeded
in doing so.
W. H. C. Tenhaefp.
MR TYRRELL'S ELECTRICAL APPARATUS
At Mr Tyrrell's suggestion, the Research Officer made a careful
inspection of the apparatus after its re-erection at Mr Tyrrell's new
address. It was found to be in perfect working order. It has always
been Mr Tyrrell's practice to make periodic tests of the mechanism
during the course of his experiments, and it has now been decided
that specific tests of the key relays, the box relays, and the safety
relay ^ shall be made as a routine before and after every sitting ;
also
that each sitting's results shall be recorded on a single length of paper
tape, at the beginning and end of which will appear the records of the
routine tests. In this way, each sitting's record will bear its own
evidence that the mecham'sm was in proper working order when the
work was started, and was still working properly after the sitting was
finished. This course has been adopted, not because the apparatus is
1 See 1936, Proc, Vol. 44, p. 120.
January 1939 Mr. Tyrrell's Electrical Apparatus 7
likely to go out of adjustment—it lias been found in the past to be
very free from breakdown—but in order that any chance of trouble
from this source may be rendered as remote as possible.
The apparatus in its present form is suitable for experiments both
in pure clairvoyance (i.e. extra-sensory perception in which no other
incarnate mind than that of the subject is involved) and in mixed
perception (where a telepathic element may be operating) : also, to
some extent, for experiments in precognition. For work in pure
clairvoyance, numbers selected automatically by an electrical device
are fed to the apparatus without the operator knowing what these
numbers are. This is an improvement over the previous arrange-
ment in which automatically selected numbers, known to the
operator, were passed into the apparatus through a commutator, the
setting of which was unknown to the operator. Here at first sight
it looked as though telepathic interaction between operator and
subject could have no effect upon the results, since the operator,
though he knew the numbers, did not know which of his keys was
connected to which of the subject's boxes. But for a given setting
of the commutator, a given key is always associated with the same
box ; and so the subject, once she had scored a success with tliat
box, could, if she possessed a telepathic faculty, associate that box
with the particular key, and could repeat her success whenever that
key was depressed. The same would apply to the other keys and
boxes.^
It must not be thought from this that it is in any way considered
that telepathy is a faculty which can be taken for granted, or which
is not worth investigating. Far from it. Though there is probably
a good deal more evidence for telepathy than for the other para-
normal faculties which have been postulated, it is always extremely
difficult to produce satisfactory experimental evidence for its reality.
Though many people have no doubt as to the existence of telepathy,
the faculty cannot by any means be said to be absolutely proved
beyond all question. It is probable that official scientific opinion
—in so far as there is any official scientific opinion on these matters
—rejects telepathy. But in any experiments in supernormal per-
ception, it is very important, if possible, to differentiate between
effects which might be due to telepathy and effects which must be
lit was this possibility, and this alone, that the Research Officer had in
mind when discussing the matter with Mr Soal on the occasion referred to
by him in Light of 1938, June 9, and quoted by Mr Tyrrell in the October
Journal. It seems possible that Mr Soal may have misunderstood the point,
as his reference appears to imply that the commutator fails to serve the
purpose for which it was designed and suggests that it may even be a source
of information to the subject. This is, emphatically, not the ease.
8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1939
independent of this faculty. And apart from this important
consideration, there is another of even greater importance. If the
subject in an experiment is in a position to receive relevant informa-
tion telepathically from the operator, he is also in a position, if
within sight or hearing of the operator, to receive information nor-
mally by means of sensory cues given unconsciously. In telepathic
experiments, therefore, extreme pains have to be taken to guard
against such leakage, not because such leakage is probable, but in
order to make it impossible, or as nearly so as the technique will
admit. Whereas, in non-telepathic experiments, such precautions
are unnecessary—the operator cannot transmit to the subject
information which he has not got.
In its present form, the apparatus should be capable of demon-
strating without reasonable doubt the existence of non-telepathic
extra-sensory perception, or clairvoyance. And also, if operator
and subject are sufficiently separated to make the giving of uncon-
scious cues impossible (as can easily be done with the present arrange-
ment) it should be equally capable of use in telepathic tests. The
apparatus should prove a powerful instrument of research, and we
wish its inventor every success in his difficult work.
CORRESPONDENCE
Spontaneous and Experimental Cases
Sir,—I have read with considerable interest Mr Maby's plea that
psychical researchers should give preference to the study of spontan-
eous cases [Journal October 1938, p. 272].
A common objection to such cases is that the chances against
their being the products of pure coincidence are often impossible or
at least extremely laborious to estimate. I admit that this probably
does not apply to certain of the best cases obtained through, say,
Mrs Piper or Mrs Leonard
—
i.e., cases in which there is a great
wealth of verified detail. But it certainly applies to many of the
simpler spontaneous experiences. An even more serious objection
is that in spontaneous cases it frequently happens that many rele-
vant facts remain unascertainable. One such unsuspected circum-
stance might, if revealed, change the whole complexion of the case.
There is usually a strong element of uncertainty present in cases of
telepathic dreams, prevision, etc.
But, putting aside this element of uncertainty, I agree with Mr
Maby that spontaneous cases are often far more illuminating than
the results obtained by the use of, say, Zener cards.
ii
Janttaby 1939 Correspondence 9
Unfortunately it is now clear that orthodox scientists and psycho-
logists will pay scarcely any attention to even the most carefully
recorded reports of telepathic dreams or experiences with mediums.
Intrinsically, I suppose, my carefully recorded experiences with Mrs
Blanche Cooper were of much greater interest than any of the nega-
tive statistical investigations which I have pubhshed since 1925.
But while these experiences were widely discussed in many educated
circles I do not think that a single review of them appeared in any
reputable psychological journal. I fancy that there are still a great
many psychologists (as well as other scientists) who consider that
sitting with spirituahst mediums is scarcely respectable, and to be
deprecated. Mediums are still associated in the academic mind
with charlatanry and " baby talk ". However regrettable this
attitude may be the ordinary scientific worker is bound to be in-
fluenced by it and he can only devote himself to the kind of studies
advocated by Mr Maby under penalty of having his patient work
completely ignored. He will be told that his methods are hopelessly
" unscientific ". On the other hand a good many psychologists—in
this country at any rate—are becoming more or less favourably
impressed by laboratory experiments with Zener cards provided
such experiments are carried out in a rigorously scientific manner.
Such experiments are at least free from much of the odium that,
justly or unjustly, attaches to spirituahsm and researches into the
problem of survival.
Thus, while I may be disposed to assent privately to many of Mr
Maby's contentions, I am compelled as a matter of policy to disagree
with him. The vital objective of psychical research at the present
time must be to render itself respectable in the eyes of orthodox
science. Our paramount object should be to get our studies taken
up seriously by the Universities, and University psychologists are
only impressed by the methods of the laboratory.—Yours faithfully,
S. G. SOAL.
Mental Automatism and Telepathy
Sir,—One or two points of great significance seem to me to be
brought out in Mx Maby's " Case ", in the October Journal,'^ and they
are surely worth emphasizing.
(1)
" There was also a sense of shght uncertainty about some, but
not all, of the proper names ..."
This surely parallels in an interesting manner the proper-name
diSiculty in the cases of mediums.
1 Vol. XXX, p. 264.
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1939
(2) The point that telepathic rapport seemed to decrease in
proportion to the lack of personal affection and sympathetic under-
standing between agent and percipient throws much light upon the
difficulty of obtaining results in experimental thought-transference,
and why it is that spontaneous cases are so much more striking and
convincing, as Mr Maby emphasizes. This is of course generally
recognized, but little in the way of verification of the belief has been
adduced in the past.
(3) Mr Maby's discussion of the " core " of a possible communica-
tion, giving rise to subliminal " padding " by the psychic or medium,
but nevertheless instigating it, has many interesting analogies with
dreams, and was discussed at great length by Hyslop in his Piper
Report. The old difficulty of sifting the wheat from the chaff is
here brought to the fore, showing the error of trying to prove that
such material is either all wheat or all chaff.—Yours, etc.,
Hereward Carrington.
Experiment in Extra-Sensory Perception
Sir,—From Mr Soal's letters to the Journal, it seems that he makes
a special claim to conduct investigations with every possible scienti-
fic safeguard. I wonder if this is always so. Early last October I
watched Mr Soal testing the card-guessing powers of a subject who
gives public performances to display faculties of this kind. The
subject was given a playing-card, looked at it, and handed it back.
Mr Soal then shuffled it with other cards, under a table, and shd
the cards on to the table one by one, face downwards. The table was
highly pohshed, and from time to time the colour, at least, of the
card could be seen reflected from the surface, before the card was laid
down flat. The late Miss Warren and I spoke to Mr Soal of this at
the time, and said that we could see enough reflection sometimes to
be fairly sure of the card. —Yours, etc.
M. K. Varvill.
REVIEW
The Riddle of Life. By William McDougall, M.B., F.R.S.
Methuen. 7s. 6d. net.
This little volume, unhappily the last of Professor McDougall's
works, poses vividly before the reader's mind the question of whether
or not experimental science is on its way towards solving the riddle.
The authors of the astonishing variety of biological theories reviewed
in this brief, but admirably clear conspectus, would, no doubt,
Jajsttjaey 1939 Review 11
answer this question in the affirmative : but, for the most part, their
confidence appears to be sustained by their lack of acquaintance
with methodology and theory of knowledge, which is no imcommon
thing with scientific specialists. The doubt rises in the reader's
mind as to whether many of them see the wood for the trees.
The author ranges the theories in order, from tlie sheer mechanism
of Hogben and Needham to the advanced teleological theories of
J. S. Haldane and Whitehead, and subjects the entire series to
incisive criticism. Though his style is descriptive rather than
polemical, he indicates his own position with clearness, sapng that
" any biology which neglects or ignores the efficacy of psychical
activities is doomed to a relative sterility ''.
One of the curiosities of contemporary biological theory is its
return to mechanism at a time when mechanics has become an
anachronism in physical science. This recrudescence of mechanics
is due to the Mendehan discoveries and the theory of genes, which
have revived a belief in mechanical genetics. The brilliant pro-
tagonists of this latter theory have claimed that it provides a solu-
tion of the problem of morphogenesis and that it explains that
marvellous combination of stabihty with labihty, which is the
outstanding feature of hving things. But the author traces their
arguments back into the region of the ultra-microscopic and shows
that there the causal gap between spatio-temporal arrangements
of molecules and the ensuing adult dispositions is never bridged.
The theory may to some extent describe ; but it does not explarii.
Curiouslv enough, the most far-sighted of the mechanists, in their
more candid moments (notably E. B. WUson), confess to a funda-
mental ignorance, which their theories do not dispel.
After all we have heard about the importance of genes, it is
astonishing to read (p. 23) that R. Goldschmidt, a geneticist of the
highest authority, has recently pubhshed an article throwing doubt
on the whole of the evidence for their existence!
The main crux of biology is, of course, the dispute between
Mechanism and Teleology ; and the author, after passing in review
the Organicist, Emergentist and Gestalt theories, considers that
group of theories which centres round the conception of Hohsm, in
which teleological or psychical causation is accepted as a vera causa.
Here two themes are mtroduced, which are of great importance for
psychical research, namely the theory of memory and McDougalUs
monadic conception of the structure of the organic beiag. Monadism,
it is argued, is the view to which the dual nature of the organism
points ; for organic beings are simultaneously unitary and multiple.
Sometimes, when a part is grafted onto an organism, the grafted part
12 Journal of Society for Psychical Research January 1939
subordinates its growth to the pattern of the whole : but at other
times the graft rebels and follows its own scheme in defiance of the
total pattern. So also in psychology, it is a mistake to regard the
unity of personality as a primary datum. It is rather " an achieve-
ment, a product of organic organization, an integration, a har-
monization, actively maintained and only too hable to fail and lapse
in favour of some state of conflict. ..." In this personal integration
the monads are conceived as being arranged in a hierarchy, with the
self-conscious ego as the dominant member, while communication
between members is telepathic. Should " telepathic " sound too
outrageous a term for the scientific reader, he may say that the
monads manifest a direct and " purely psychical integration ",
which comes to the same thing!
Finally, the author turns to two outstanding biologies of the
dualistic type—those of Professors Henri Bergson and Hans
Driesch. In Matiere et Memoire, Bergson marshalled many facts
pointing to the view that memory is of two kinds, (1) routine mem-
ory, which is really physiologically ingrained habit, and, (2) true
memory, or memory oi ftieaning, which exists, he maintains, without
any material or physical basis. Here is something of central
biological importance, since, " the immaterial basis of memory
and the reality and the efficacy of the teleological activities of
organisms are the two main supports of any thorough-going non-
mechanical biology." It must be remembered that the wide
problem of instinct is closely allied to that of memory. McDougall
holds that Bergson's theory of memory contains much that is of
importance for psychical research and that it has been unduly
neglected by workers in that field.
He speaks with appreciation of the work of Hans Driesch, pointing
out that in so far as the latter postulates in the higher organism a
number of co-operating entelechies, his view becomes identical with
the monadic theory combined with psycho-physical duahsm.
Whoever reads with detachment this interesting review of bio-
logical theories, so confidently put forward by their various sponsors
and yet so contradictory of one another, is likely to feel that all
scientific hypotheses lie shrouded in mist behind those fundamental
problems of epistemology, which the human mind has never yet
solved.
G. N. M. T.
No. 552.—Vol. XXXI February 1939
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of the
Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
On WEDNESDAY, 22 February, igjg, at 4 p.m.
To transact the business set out on the formal notice dated
the i6th January, igsg, and already circulated.
N.B.
—
Members alone have the right to take part in the Business
of the Annual General Meeting, but Associates may be present. Tea,
to which Members and Associates are invited, will be served after the
Meeting.
B
14 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1939
NEW MEMBERS
Betjeman, John, Garrard's Farm, Uffington, Berks.
Collins, B. Abdy, Deccan House, Aldeburgh, Suffolk
Librarian, King's College, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 2.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 368th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W. C. 1, on Wednesday, 11 January, 1939, at 3.15 p.m.,
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There
were also present : Mr Whately Carington, Lord Charles Hope,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr W. H. Salter, Admiral the Hon.
A. C. Strutt, R.N., and the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas ; also Miss
E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 161st Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library, on Wednesday, 25 January, 1939, at 5.30 p.m., Mr
Kenneth Richmond in the Chair.
The Research Officer, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, read a paper entitled
" A Preliminary Investigation into the Platform Clairvoyance of
Mrs Helen Hughes "'.
This paper will be published later in Pro-
ceedings. The following members took part in the discussion : Sir
Ernest Bennett, Mr B. Abdy Collins, Dr E. J. Dingwall, Mr J. T.
Evans, Mrs A. Peel Goldney, and the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton,
G.B.E.
CASE : A COINCIDENCE OF DREAMS
The following case has been communicated to the Society by Mon-
sieur Palthe of Uccle, Belgium, in a letter dated 18 October 1938.
On 7 October 1938, Monsieur X ^ attended a reception at the house
of Madame Y ^ in Brussels. He left at 10.30 p.m. The same night
Madame Y had the following dream :
1 The real name.s and addresses are known to the Society.
15
She is at the railway station with a gentleman (unknown) ;
several friends see her off including Monsieur X. Suddenly the train
starts, and Madame Y leaves without having time to take all her
luggage. She calls through the open -window to Monsieur X :
" Please bring me my luggage, and don't forget the yellow suitcase."
Arrived at her destination, she goes up to the luggage depot and
finds all her luggage except the yellow suitcase. Monsieur X is
there too, and the lady severely rebukes him for his neghgence.
The next morning, 8 October 1938, Madame Y related her dream
to a witness. Monsieur Z ;
^ and an hour or so afterwards, while
Monsieur Z was still present. Monsieur X arrived, and before any-
thing was said to him about Madame Y's dream, he recounted his
own dream of the previous night, which was as follows :
He finds himself at the station, and is in charge of Madame Y's
luggage. A yellow suitcase is especially recommended to his care.
He transports all this with great pains, but the yellow suitcase is
somehow lost. He mounts the stairs to the luggage depot, and there
meets Madame Y. She gives him a severe scolding for his bad
behaviour.
Madame Y has contributed the following signed statement
:
Brussels, 31 October.
I told Monsieur Z about my dream before hearing Monsieur X's
statement, and the latter, in turn, related his dream to Monsieur Z
before hearing my description.
I have actually a yellow suitcase, but Monsieur X says that if he
ever saw it, he never paid to it any special attention. He never
travelled with me actually. However, about two weeks before the
occurrence of the coincident dreams he helped me to transport some
luggage from one apartment to another. Among this luggage there
was no yellow trunk.
Monsieur X has added a signed endorsement
:
I hereby certify that the above letter is a true and correct
statement of fact.
Monsieur Palthe reports that the persons concerned are all trust-
worthy witnesses.
•
1 Monsieur Palthe has interviewed the witness and vouches for the truth of
his statement.
306282
16 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1939
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR 1938 ,
(1) Research Department. There has been no lack of material since
the pubhcation of the last Annual Report. Thirteen " spontaneous
"
cases have been examined, of which four have been considered
sufficiently evidential for printing in the Journal. Two have already
appeared, and two are in the press. In addition to these, three
cases of hauntings, and seven poltergeist cases have been investigated.
None was worth printing. The records of all these cases are pre-
served in the Society's files, and may be seen by Members and
Associates on application to the Research Officer.
A number of minor experiments have been carried out either at
the Rooms of the Society, or by correspondence with the persons
concerned. Records of these are available for examination. The
study of the paranormal healer, mentioned in the last Annual
Report, has been continued, but no definite conclusions have yet
been reached. It is hoped that further work on these lines may be
possible wdtli the collaboration of a member of the medical profession
who has lately joined the Society.
An investigation has been begun of Mrs Helen Hughes, the well-
known platform clairvoyante. Shorthand notes of two complete
demonstrations (one a public meeting held at the Caxton Hall, and
the other a private meeting at the London Spiritualist Alliance) are
in the possession of the Society, together with annotations by many
of the recipients of messages. The Society is greatly indebted to
the Council and Secretary of the London Spiritualist Alliance for
their kind co-operation during the course of this work. The in-
vestigation is being continued, and a report will be issued in due
course.
Among other mediums examined is Mr Frank Leah, the artist,
who makes sketches of alleged communicators. Several sittings have
been arranged by the Society, the notes of which may be seen on
demand.
Through the kind offices of Colonel A. H. Bell, the President of the
Society of Dowsers, an experiment in map reading was carried out
with four members of that Society. The results with one subject
were sufficiently striking to warrant further tests being made, and
it is hoped that these may be arranged shortly.
In collaboration with Mr Whately Carington, an experiment in
connection with his word-association technique is being conducted
by the Research Officer. A first series of tests has been completed
and a second series will be carried out during 1939.
February 1939 Annual Report of the Council for 1938 17
Many photographs having lately appeared in the press showing
mediums at seances in a state of apparent levitation, it was con-
sidered that it would be valuable for the Society to investigate the
appearance of a person in the act of jumping, photographed with a
short exposure. A series of twelve pictures of a jumping model has
been produced, photographed under similar conditions to those which
would occur in the seance room, and many of these show practically
no trace of any movement in the figure. This series suggests that
it would be easy to give an illusion of levitation by means of a
simple jump, if the flashlight apparatus is discharged either by an
accomplice or by the medium himself. The series of photographs
is available for comparison with any levitation pictures which may
be produced in future.
During the closure of the rooms in the summer, an experiment
in long distance telepathy was carried out with three percipients,
all of whom had reason to suppose that they possessed some tele-
pathic faculty. The results were sufficiently promising to justify
further tests.
At the request of Dr A. Tanagras, of Athens, a series of tests
has been arranged of telepathic transmission between London and
Athens. A group meets at the Society's rooms every Tuesday
afternoon, and an attempt is made to transmit images to a similar
group sitting in Athens, and also to receive images transmitted by
them. Four sittings have already been held, which have shown
interesting results. Further sittings will be held in the new year.
In view of the controversy which has arisen over the results of the
E.S.P. experiments carried out by Professor Rhine and other
American investigators, the Council decided that it would be very
valuable for a series of tests with Zener cards to be carried out by
the Society's ofiicers, such tests to avoid as far as possible those
weaknesses of technique which have been alleged against the Ameri-
can procedure. The Society has obtained for this purpose a series
of cards which has been specially made by Messrs De La Rue.
After a certain amount of experiment, it was found to be quite easy
to prepare cards which avoided the more obvious defects of legi-
bility from the back and irregularity of pattern which had l)een
noted in the E.S.P. cards previously on sale. The other details of
the technique have been worked out with great care, and it is hoped
that the Society's present procedure is completely proof against the
chance of normal leakage, while at the same time allowing the sub-
jects all possible freedom. A few tests have already been carried
out, and a full programme of work in this field has been arranged
for the new year. If any Member or Associate would like to take
18 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Febeuaky 1939
part in these E.S.P. tests, which include pure telepathy, pure
clairvoyance and a combination of the two, he should communicate
with the Research Oflficer.
As a further contribution to the study of Extra Sensory Per-
ception a Committee has been formed, consisting of Professor C. D.
Broad, Mr Whately Carington, Mr Oliver Gatty and Professor R.
H. Thouless, all of whom are now resident in Cambridge, with the
object of conducting experiments under strict conditions. From the
work already done, both within and outside the Society, it is obvious
that the study of Extra Sensory Perception is full of technical
difficulties and that little progress is hkely to be made unless the
investigators are fully aware of these and will both devise and
scrupulously maintain the conditions appropriate for dealing with
them.
(2) Presidency. The Council were so fortunate as to secure Lord
Rayleigh's consent to serve as President of the Society for a second
year of office. During the year 1938, he contributed to our Proceec^'ijig's
two papers, " The Question of Lights supposed to have been ob-
served near the Poles of a Magnet ", and " Some Recollections of
Henry Sidgwick ", in addition to his Presidential Address which
was clehvered in 1937.
(3) Changes on the Council. The Council deeply regret to record
the death of Dr Wilham McDougall, F.R.S., which took place in the
United States in November. Dr McDougall joined the Society in
1902, and a few years later became a member of Council, and Presi-
dent of the Society in the years 1920-21 . His eminence as a psycholo-
gist is too well known to call for remark, but it should be noted that
in his numerous and influential books he more than once put the
strongest emphasis on the importance of psychical research, at a
time when few psychologists of position showed any interest in the
subject.
The Council have co-opted Sir Robert Gower, M.P. as a member
of Council.
(4) Miss Newton s Betirement. As foreshadowed in the Council's
last Annual Report, Miss Newton's retirement from the post of
Secretary, which she had so long and so successfully filled, took
place at Ladyday, 1938. A few days later she read to the Society
a paper entitled " A Study of certain Leonard Phenomena " which
has been since printed in Proceedings. This was a notable occasion,
as during the many years that she had been Secretary, Miss Newton's
modesty prevented her giving the Society in the form of a paper
February 1939 Annual Report oj the Council for 1938 19
the benefit of her great knowledge of all branches of psychical
research.
The Council decided that in view of the importance of the research
side of Miss Newton's work, a Research Secretary should be appointed
to assist Mr Herbert. After careful consideration they appointed
Miss V. Warren, the appointment to be considered as provisional
until the end of 1938. Unfortunately, Miss Warren died early in
November.
(5) The Editorship of the Journal. The Council have appointed
Mr Kenneth Eichmond to act as Editor of the Journal, on Miss Nea
Walker's resignation which was announced in the last Annual Report.
(6) Publication of Books relating to the Society's Worl\ In the last
Report mention was made of a series of books being prepared by
different members of the Society, dealing with various asj^ects of the
Society's work. Five books in this series have been published, and
while, of course, neither the Council nor the Society take any
responsibility for the deductions or theories contained in the books,
they consider the objects of the Society will be promoted by making
readily accessible to the general public much material contained in
our Proceedings and Journal ; they have accordingly given the
authors permission to quote several cases from the Journal, with
due concealment of the names of persons concerned, or with their
permission, where necessary.
(7) Special Autumn Lectures. Another way in which the Council
considered that knowledge concerning past work done by the Society
could be made available, both to non-members and to members who
had recently joined and might not be familiar with it, was by holding
during the Autumn two series of Lectures, one in the afternoon and
one in the evening, to which the public were invited on payment.
Unfortunately, the Lectures had been fixed to take place at a time
when everyone's attention was distracted by international alfairs,
and the attendance was not as good as had been hoped. There were,
however, interesting discussions after the Lectures which served a
useful purpose in putting forward a broader \'iew of psychical re-
search in relation to its historical background than can be expected
at most of our meetings which deal with current work in detail.
The Council wish to record their thanks to Mrs Varvill for the great
trouble she took in helping to organise these Lectures.
(8) Hon. Members. As a token of their admiration for her work
as Secretary and her services to psychical research, the Council
elected Miss Newton an Honorary Member of the Society.
XrH OS o
iH
I—' 00 o
f-H ,H 1—
1
wl
to CO CI
C-3 O rH rH X lO CO CC
o o '
O O i-H o o
o o oo o o :o oi c;
, I—1 1—
I
rH
CO OJ X o5
1—1
r-H
O :D I- ac 1-1
-f .-( r-1 i!0
O)
lO
CO t-
so
til
_ CO
S £ S
£11
15
^
V „ J i
^ t 3 i
t>-
rH
OJ
1—
I
X CO
CO
Ol
-a o ,
S 3 i
1
o COO XOCl O CO O] rH 0»0 T-t
r-t
CO coo -f o — X O l~ lA
rH i-H
CI :D iT. o O :c ?o o CO CO
|2 O CM OlOO Ci X irs --1 «*
-jO OJ Ol I- 1—1 1—
1
iH
OJ
o o
- O'
1-H rH -*
t+ix
O O LiO i-O o
O O O O CM tH
h iC CD
? CO CO
[-X c
CO CO c
o c: 01 o
X CO rH
rH
rH (M
r^
O) CO
rH rH
i-O CO I--
^ C/^
* . to
X CO CO o
C; rH X
s
O
5 >. >. a
-IS o o
S o o ^
•
8 "^C
o
En's gt^
» g I 8
-Kj O ,
rH ^ V; "
5^. — 2 c„
"5 c g ;5
ii C - =
^ « §
D
o
P5
CD
O
o x to
O -t
-o
^ .-( ^ ^
' C - w.
i ^ x r ?s
>- o Pi C
g i:- c: s = = =
S 5 r^, 5 ~ ~ "
« c " e
-J CS S| K)
a n f
t O i.T
X
I 5 i §
=: c —
^ ^ ^ -r,
5 < -
=^ .t5
~ r -5
15 5^ 6 s
o
I—
I
P
* ^ CO
T—
f
^1 -JO O
S s o
5 O
cri
f—
1
I-H CD
(M
CIO 1
CO CO
K -c :r i-( GO
5 ^ C
^-S o
> c
«^ ^-^
5-^
go
M - -
o o =s
I- X
g; T-<
O •* IM
^ 3 -C
•S O K i
s= o S; =
<i> CJ 2; o
CO r- S£ ~
n
S5
o
o
a;
§ S
!» ^ 2
O ^
o :3
a
o
o
C3
rH So
I
CO ira
o> o
rH
5
O O °
o o ^
m m
em t3
^ ^
d m
C C3 fa
MOO
3 cs Ph
o
o o
S g
S CO
c
s s
5 o
o o
>. >.
PI fil
Ui --.
. +j ^
« d o
-g O ^3 -3
Q, ^ -vP PH
§ CO rl-
^
IH
^ ^ 3
^ rt si C
s ^ ^ -a
c ^ J2
- 3
O fn
CO
^ O
o -
c c: 9
CO CO I—I h-( M
O O O 1-H o o
000000
O O O 00 o
CD O 00 O »jO OS
CO iC O O I-
rH-
Crt ^ ^-
2 c c
^ cj
-
"3 a
CS C3 i
OJ "
^1 o
O O 1-1
000
i^^ O CO
»c o o
O CO C-l
r-r
c c c
o M "
3 «
C W OJ
O CJ ^
h-1 W H O
0000
0000
o o o
i-l O CD O
li^ CI 01
=+l C+i ct^
CD
o; uo oi
ITS rt
3 ^
o >.
Q
p
o
c a
S CO
-»
qj «
t3
CD rt
PS i:
s " :^
.2 ^
cj *- r:
o ct
^ £• ==
^ o °
. o •« S
P o
o
a
C3
P.
•S 5-
S -a
o =3
Hi =3
1—1 O
w o
g a,
^ cS
E-i-a
'2
a
cj
-II
CO >H
>
o
•n 5 CO
K 1^
<A C3
P^ pel
•73 -a
M
'A
ec
2 o
Q
a
o
c R a c
o 1-1 "
ca
cod
o « c
o °"
CO tO CO
01 o o o o
I
CI o o o o
OOOoi^OdOOOi—
I
in CO i-H 00 ^ w w
(M CO CO CJ OJ
t+1 Crf '-rt C^^
"
O O
UO lO
m in
•Hi
& C8
T3 .5
a ^
wT o
3
a 'O
c g
C3 3
tfj pH
^ —
O eS
pq o
6
p,
c^ -
PS s
- t»
! S
«
cS
0
o *
CO T!
S O
a> O
J= 01
s
£ a
e ?
8 .a
"Si
-S
a -a
o P
o ^
°
^J CO
•§1
r; o
February 1939 Annual Report of the Council for 1938 23
Diiring the summer one of the Society's most distinguished mem-
bers, Dr Sigmund Freud, took up his residence in England. For
twenty-seven years he has been a Corresponding Member of the
Society, and now that he is Uving among us the Council considered
it more proper that he should be elected an Honorary Member.
(9) Library. During the year 75 Members borrowed 427 books,
and 89 books were borrowed by the National Central Library.
Several Members availed themselves of the privilege of borrowing
books from other Libraries through the Society and the National
Central Library.
(10) Obituary. In addition to Dr McDougall, the Council regret to
record the deaths of Dr Eugene Osty, a Corresponding Member ;
also of Sir Reginald Johnston, Mr J. R. K. Duff and Dr W. H.
Maxwell Telling.
(11) Membershij) of the Society During the year 51 new Members
and 1 Student Associate were elected. The total loss in Members
from deaths, resignations and other causes was 47 Members and 16
Associates, leaving a net increase of 5 Members and a decrease of 14
Associates. The total membership of the Society now stands at 688.
The Council welcome back to membership of the Society several
members who had been compelled to resign in recent years on the
ground of financial stringency. They regard their continued interest
in the Society's work, evidenced by their resumption of membership,
as most gratifying.
The Council wish that more young men and women would avail
themselves of the opportunity of becoming Student-Associates under
the scheme, particulars of which were printed in the Journal for
July 1933. They hope that members who come in contact with
young men and women interested, or likely to be interested, in
psychical research will endeavour to persuade them to join the Society
under these conditions.
(12) Finance of the Society. This is the first full year since the
Society obtained exemption from income tax as mentioned in the
last Report. Although the rehef so obtained is appreciable, it is
essential that the strictest watch on expenditure should be main-
tained and that no opportunity should be lost of increasing the
Society's income. The Council wish to draw special attention to the
seven years' Deed of Covenant recently circulated to all members,
with an explanatory statement by the Hon. Treasurer. They hope
that every member will respond to the Hon. Treasurer's appeal by
24 Journal of Society foi' Psychical Research Februaey 1939
executing the Deed of Covenant. If this were done, a substantial
increase in the Society's income would result.
(13) Publications. Five Parts of the Proceedings were published
during the year : Part 152 in January, Part 153 in February, Part
154 in June, Part 155 in October and Part 156 in December.
The Secretary's sales to the general public amounted to £45 8s. 5d.
and to members of the Society, £43 5s. 6d. , an increase in both depart-
ments on sales for the past two years. Returns from the Society's
agent in the United States amounted to £7 Is. 6d.
(14) Meetings. The following meetings have been held during
the year
:
26 Jan. " Two Series of Experiments in Automatic Writing ", by
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
23 Feb. " Experiments with Mrs Eileen Garrett ", by Mrs Goldney
and Mr S. G. Soal.
30 Mar. " A Study of certain Leonard Phenomena ", by Miss I.
Newton.
27 Apr. " Recent Work carried out by the Society ", by the Re-
search Officer.
25 May. " The Leonard Communicator-Personality ", by Mr Ken-
neth Richmond.
29 June. " Some Early Experiments providing apparently Positive
Evidence for Extra-Sensory Perception ", by Mr
Whately Carington.
28 Sept. " Some Examples of Abnormal Phenomena from Africa ".
by Dr J. H. Driberg.
27 Oct. " The Contributions of Psychical Research to Psvcho-
therapeutics ", by Dr T. W. Mitchell.
30 Nov. " Henry Sidgwick and Psychical Research ", by Professor
C. D. Broad.
It may interest readers of the Journal to know that Dr W. B.
Yeats, whose death has lately been announced, always kept his
interest in psychical research, though he had not been a member of
the S.P.R. since 1929. After reading Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell's book,
Science and Psychical Research, Dr Yeats expressed a desire to meet
the author. Mrs Lyttelton who knew them both invited them down
to her country home for a week-end. Unfortunately the date
arranged fell in the week of the crisis last September and as the
house was to be filled with hurriedly evacuated children, it was not
possible for the meeting to take place.
Febeuaey 1939 Correspondence 25
CORRESPONDENCE
Mr Tyrrell's Electrical Apparatus
Sir.—The important investigation by Mr Tyrrell of Miss
Johnson's clairvoyant powers deserves the most critical study, since
it is one of the most successful attempts to devise a method of ex-
'
perimenting in E.S.P. which should be proof against error. May I,
therefore, without anv unfriendlv intention towards these admirable
experiments, play the part of devil's advocate and suggest a possible
doubt.
The outstanding feature of the results reported in Mr Tyrrell's
latest pubUcation (" The Tyrrell apparatus for testing extra-sensory
perception "',
The Journal of Parapsychology, II, 1938, pp. 107-118)
is the fact that his subject fails to score significantly above mean
chance expectation when the number selector is used but does
score significantly when the keys are pressed down in an order de-
termined by a series of numbers previously obtained by means of
the selector, the possibihty of the subject being influenced by tele-
path}" or unconscious whispering being ruled out by the fact that
between each observation the connection between the keys pressed
down by the experimenter and the boxes opened by the subject is
altered in a manner unknown to both experimenter and subject by
the action of a rotating commutator.
The obvious difference between these two sets of cases is that
when the subject is successful the mechanical selector has not oper-
ated and that when she is unsuccessful it has been used. Mr Tyrrell,
therefore, draws the obvious conclusion that it is the use of the
mechanical selector that causes the failure because the subject has
acquired a distrust of this piece of mechanism which inhibits success.
The sceptical critic may notice, however, that there is another
difference between these two series. The commutator was used in
the successful series and not in the unsuccessful one. There seems
to be a possibihty, insufficiently guarded against, that the excess
of right guesses in the successful series is due to some peculiarity
of the commutator.
There seems to be nothing in the experiments reported that is
inconsistent with this possibility. On p. 117, Mr Tyrrell mentions
five tests of his apparatus in which no significant excess over mean
chance expectation was obtained. In all of these tests, however, the
commutator was kept in a fixed position, so the tests were not carried
out with the apparatus used exactly as it was used when giving
positive results with his experimental subject. If it were a defect
26 Jotirnal of Society for Psychical Research February 1939
of the commutator that was causing the positive results, this would
not have been detected by these tests.
On p. 116 there is a record of two series of successful results in
which the subject was tested with and without a mechanism for
delaying contact until after the choice had been made. Here the
commutator was used (as mentioned on p. 114).
Obviously it may be a mere coincidence that, in these experiments,
successes were scored when the commutator was used but not when
it was not used, but the matter obviously requires testing. If the
commutator were making contacts so that two of the boxes could be
lighted instead of one in a sufficient number of the observations
(18% in the last series of trials reported on p. 118) the successes
would be explained without any hypothesis of extra-sensory per-
ception. It is true that in his article in Proceedings ('" Further
Kesearch in Extra-Sensory Perception ", July 1936) Mr Tyrrell
mentions that the commutator is fitted with a ratchet which pre-
sumably is intended to prevent double contacts, but it does not
seem impossible that the ratchet might not be working properly.
In any case, whether or not it is likely that the commutator is
responsible for the successes, it is obviously desirable that its
working should be tested and this does not appear to have been
done.
May I suggest two further tests. First, the possibility that the
commutator was sometimes making connection to two lamps could
be very simply tested by having all the boxes open, and making a
series of observations with the commutator used between each ob-
servation, and noticing whether two lights were ever lighted together.
Secondly, the more general possibility that the commutator was
influencing the results favourably in some manner unknown might
be tested by arranging for Miss Johnston to open the boxes in some
prearranged order (let us say, backwards and forwards from end to
end), the experimenter's keys being pressed in a random order (as
in the experiments) and the commutator being used between each
observation. If the commutator is not favourably affecting the
results, this experiment should give only an insignificant deviation
from mean chance expectation when the number of observations
was as large as that in experiments in which Miss Johnson had shown
significant results.
To be quite convincing, the second test should be given immediate-
ly after a sitting in which the subject had shown positive results. I
should also suggest, as a matter of general principle, that the results
obtained should be actually published together with the positive
results of the experiment itself, i.e. that the figures of the test
February 1939 Correspondence 27
should be published and not merely a record of the fact that there
was no significant deviation from mean chance expectation. If this
were done, and if the results showed a significantly greater excess
over mean chance expectation for the experimental subject than for
the control test, I think it would be difficult for the sceptic to find
any loop-hole for error in Mr Tyrrell's ingeniously designed experi-
ment. I hope he will find time to do this.
While commenting on Mr Tyrrell's experiments, there is another
point that I should like to mention. The statistical propriety of
Mr T^Trell's procedure of not counting results on days on which his
subject stated, before the experiment, that she did not think she
was going to be successful on those days, has already been discussed
by Mr Soal and Mr Tyrrell and I have nothing to add to that dis-
cussion which has been brought to a close. I wish to suggest, how-
ever, that there is another reason for regretting that Mr Tyrrell has
not recorded results for days when his subject felt that she was
going to be unsuccessful. It has been stated by Dr Rhine, and by
Mr Tyrrell himself, that there are psychological conditions affecting
success in E.S.P. experiments but these statements rest on impres-
sions formed by experimenters during the course of E.S.P. experi-
ments and (so far as I know) there is no published quantitative
evidence on the question. If Mr Tyrrell has that evidence available,
it seems to me a great pity that he does not pubhsh it. If -Vliss
Johnson scores significantly lower when she says that she is not
going to be successful, that is a most important fact in the psychology
of E.S.P. and is also important evidence of her clairvoyant powers.
It would seem to eluninate the possibility that I have suggested of
error being due to a pecuharity of the commutator, since Miss
Johnson may be supposed to have knowledge of her own mental
states but foresight of the peculiarities of behaviour of a piece of
mechanism would seem to require clairvoyant powers. On both of
the grounds mentioned above, I suggest that it would be of value
that the figures obtained on days on which lack of success was
predicted should be pubhshed.
The above letter is written in no spirit of carping criticism of
Mr Tyrrell's experiments. I think it difficult sufficiently to praise
the ingenuity of his methods, the careful honesty of his work, and
the care with which he has devised new experiments to test suggested
normal explanations of his results. It is impossible for an ex-
perimenter to anticipate all possible future criticisms of his work,
and an experiment can only become absolutely error-proof if every-
one puts forward all possible objections. If all are tested in turn
and all are found to be mistaken, the experiment becomes as good
28 Journal of Society for Psychical Research February 1939'
as possible. It is very likely that my suspicions of the commutator
will prove to be unfounded.
Yours faithfully, Robert H. Thouless..
P.S.—The above was written before I had seen the Research
Officer's report on the apparatus. Its statement that the apparatus
was in perfect working order may mean that adequate tests of the
commutator were carried out. This is not, however, specifically
stated. If the statement means merely that Mr Tyrrell's previous
tests were repeated, the commutator remains suspect. In any case,
what is necessary is not to show that the commutator sometimes
works satisfactorily but that it is working satisfactorily at the time
Mr Tyrrell's subject gives positive results. I welcome the suggestion
that tests should be made before and after each sitting's results, but
repeat that such tests would be merely misleading if they were
simply those already used. What is necessary is not specific tests
of separate parts of the apparatus, but a test, such as I have suggest-
ed, in which the apparatus as a whole is used exactly as in the
experiment.
Mr Tyrrell writes : The Commutator is in use with the Selector
as well as with the keys. It is permanently in circuit. The ratchet
drive is specially designed to make bridging or " double contacts
"
impossible. It is the Post Office engineers, and not I. who are
responsible for this switch, which is thoroughly reliable. On more
than one occasion every position of the Commutator has been tested
as Dr Thouless suggests by opening all the boxes.
9,600 numbers have been taken from the Selector through the
Commutator for testing purposes, by observing the lamps with all
boxes open. There has never been a single case of double lighting.
Let me add that I welcome Dr Thouless's criticisms, but have not
the space here to answer them more fully.
Owing to pressure on space further current correspondence, in-
cluding a reply by Mr Soal on a point of experimental technique,,
is held over until the next issue of the Journal.
No. 553.—Vol. XXXI Maech 1939
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the
Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
On WEDNESDAY, 2g March, 1939, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
"EXPERIMENTS IN AUTOMATIC WRITING"
BY
Miss GERALDINE CUMMINS
WILL BE READ
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission will be issued for this Meeting.
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at
the door. Tea will be served from 4.43 p.m., to which Members and
Associates are invited.
c
30 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Maech 1939
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected on 16 February 1939)
Du Cros, G. L., 2 Eaton Mansions, Sloane Square, London, S.W. ]
Frew, Miss K., 347 Sutton Common Road, Sutton, Surrey.
(Elected on 22 February 1939)
Agar, Miss E. M. F., York Corner, Chertsey, Surrey.
McAlpine, Mrs R. J., 10 Trevor Square, London, S.W. 7
Student-Associate
Stubbs, Peter, Station Road, Wigton, Cumberland.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 369th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Thursday, 16 February, 1939, at 4.30 p.m.,
Professor C. D. Broad in the Chair. There were also present
:
Mr Whately Carington, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., the Hon. Mrs
Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter and
Mr H. F. Saltmarsh ; also Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer,
and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The 370th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 22 February, 1939, at 3.15 p.m.,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the Chair. There were also present
:
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H.
Salter, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N.
;
also Mr Kenneth Richmond, Editor of the Journal, Mr C. V. C.
Herbert, Research Officer, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Two new Members and one Student-Associate were elected. Their
names and addresses are given above.
The 371st Meeting of the Coimcil was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 22 February 1939, immediately
March 1939 Annvxil General Meeting 31
after the Annual General Meeting, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., in
the Chair. There were also present : The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton,
G.B.E., Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh,
and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, E.N. ;
also Miss E. M. Horsell,
Assistant-Secretary.
Professor Henry Habberley Price, Wykeham Professor of Logic in
the University of Oxford, was elected President for the year 1939.
Mr W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Secretary, Admiral the Hon.
A. C. Strutt Hon. Treasurer, Mrs W. H. Salter Hon. Editor of the
Proceedings, and Mr G. H. Spinney Hon. Librarian.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication : The Earl of Balfour,
Professor C. D. Broad, Mr Whately Carington, the Hon. Mrs Alfred
Lyttelton, G.B.E., Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr J. G.
Piddington, Mr W. H. Salter, and Mr H. F. Saltmarsh.
House and Finance Committee : Miss Ina Jephson, Mr G. W.
Lambert, Mr W. H. Salter and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Library Committee : Professor E. R. Dodds, Sir Lawrence Jones,
Bart., Miss Isabel Newton, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt and the
Rev. C. Drayton Thomas.
Corresponding Members and Hon. Associates were elected for the
year 1939 as follows :
Corresponding Members : Professor Henri Bergson, President
Nicholas Murray Butler, Dr Max Dessoir, Professor Pierre Janet,
Dr C. G. Jung, Count Carl von Klinckowstroem, M. Maurice Maeter-
hnck. Professor T. K. Oesterreich, Dr Rudolph Tischner, Carl Vett
and Dr EUwood Worcester.
Honorary Associates : Miss H. A. Dallas, David Gow, J. Arthur
Hill, Professor R. F. A. Hoernle, Rev. W. S. Irving, Professor J. H.
Muirhead, Kenneth Richmond, Professor Charles Sage, Dr A.
Tanagras, Dr H. W. C. Tenhaeff, Professor R. H. Thouless and Dr
Th. Wereide.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was held at
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 22 February,
1939, at 4 p.m.. The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the
Chair.
The following Members were present : Mr G. W. Fisk, Mrs A.
Peel Goldney, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart.,
Mrs R. J. McAlpine, Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, Mrs K.
Richmond, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh,
32 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1939
Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N., Mrs Gale Thomas and Mr
G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also Miss M. Candler (Associate) and Mr Kenneth
Richmond (Hon. Associate).
The Hon. Secretary read the Notice convening the Meeting.
The Hon. Treasurer, in presenting the accounts for the year,
reported that the Society had a surplus of about £50 in hand on its
ordinary income and expenditure. The recovery of income tax on
the Society's investments, which amounted to about £56 per annum,
made a considerable difference to the Society's income. He urged
members to support the Seven Years' Deed of Covenant plan, the
response to which up to date had not come up to his hopes, only
about one-third of the members who had been asked to sign the
Deed having so far done so—but even this would make a difference
of nearly £100 a year.
The Hon. Secretary said he hoped that members would do their
utmost to increase the Society's membership. He pointed out that
although the number of members was increasing, the Society was
not replacing Associates because they could not afford to do so,
and consequently the total number of Members and Associates
together was very slightly decreasing. He hoped that more young
men and women might be persuaded to join as Student-Associates
and that members, particularly those in touch with universities and
colleges, would help the Society to gain more recruits in this way.
Mrs Goldney made some suggestions for improving the Society's
financial position, which the Hon. Treasurer said he would care-
fully consider.
Mr Salter moved the adoption of the Balance Sheet and the
Annual Report. This resolution was seconded by Mr H. F. Salt-
marsh, and carried unanimously.
The Chairman announced that there were no candidates for
election to membership of the Council, other than the six members
who retired by rotation and sought re-election. The following six
members were accordingly unanimously elected : The Rt. Hon.
The Earl of Balfour, Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P., Sir Lawrence Jones,
Bart., Sir Ohver Lodge, F.R.S., Mr H. F. Saltmarsh and Mr S.G.Soal.
Messrs Miall, Savage, Avery & Co. were re-elected Auditors for
the forthcoming year.
The Hon. Treasurer has pleasure in acknowledging the following
contributions to the Society's funds :
Special Donation £1360
Mabch 1939 Case 33
CASE.
Ajst Appaeition of a Dead Person seen in Daylight by Two
Percipients.
The following case was brought to the notice of the Hon. Secretary
by Mr Arthur Findlay, a former member of the Society, who has
himself contributed to the " Psychic News " of the 28th January,
1939, an account of it which is of considerable interest but does not
give the percipients' report of the incident in their own words.
On the evening of Monday, the 5th December, 1938, a lady,
Mrs X, hving near Great Dunmow, Essex, first shot her husband and
then committed suicide by shooting herself. The exact time when
she did so is uncertain, but it was clearly estabUshed at the inquest,
which was held on Friday, the 9th December, that it was round
about 9 p.m. About 7.45 a.m. the following morning the " daily
help " on going to the house found a note in Mrs X's hand-writing,
" Don't go in, send for the police." Mrs X's body was found lying
in the garden. The police were called in and sent for a surgeon at
about 8.40 a.m.
The percipients, Mr and Mrs Dawson, live a mile or two away
from the scene of the tragedy. The following is Mr Dawson's
account as given in a letter to the Hon. Secretary on the 17th
January, 1939
:
Dear Sir,—In reply to your letter of January 13th, my wife and
I were motoring to London on December 6th, having left our house
at 9.15 a.m. and some 5 minutes later we passed Mr and Mrs X's
house, and walking towards us along the country bye-road outside
the house was IVIrs X, hatless.
We both " bowed good-morning " to her, and she acknowledged
our salutations with a " bow and smile ".
We commented to each other about having seen her and drove on
without further mention of the subject.
At about 9 p.m. that night we were told that Mrs X had shot
Mr X and herself at about 9.30 p.m. on the night of December 5th,
some twelve hours before we saw Mrs X. We were naturally some-
what surprised at this and assured our informer that we had seen
Mrs X at 9.30 a.m. on December 6th.
All times etc. were checked up afterwards.
In acknowledging this letter the Hon. Secretary pointed out that
the suggestion was sometimes made in coimection with apparitions
seen out of doors that there had been a mistake in the identity of
34 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1939
the person seen and he inquired whether Mr and Mrs Dawson had
had a clear enough view to be satisfied that nothing of that kind
could have occurred. He also inquired whether Mr or Mrs Dawson
first saw and recognised Mrs X, and whether Mrs Dawson would be
willing to confirm the account given in her husband's letter of the
17th January.
To this Mr Dawson replied as follows :
23. 1. 39.
Dear Sir,—Further to my letter of 17.1.39, I saw Mrs X first ;
and said " There is Mrs X ", and my wife must have first seen her
at almost the identical moment that I did as we were in the front
seat of the car and it has a very clear view to the front and sides.
Also Mrs X was the only person in sight on the road at the time,
'
neither did we mistake any one else for her as she happened to be
a very unmistakable woman owing to her style of hairdressing, etc.
We passed within say 6 feet of her.
Mrs Dawson wrote at the foot of the letter of the 17tli January,
" I concur with the account given in the above letter."
CASE : A DOCTOR'S IMPRESSION SUGGESTING
DISTANT TELEPATHY FROM A PATIENT
Early one mornmg during February 1938 Sir Morton Smart, the
well-known physician, while cruising in the West Indies, had a vivid
impression of one of his patients, whom we will call Mrs X,^ who
appeared to be in need of his assistance. Sir Morton mentioned the
incident to his wife the same day, and a note was made of the date,
which was 1 1 February. On returning home Sir Morton found from
his appointments book that Mrs X had called at his house at 12.30
p.m. on 11 February, and had seen a colleague who was attending to
his practice during his absence.
On 29 March Sir Morton wrote to Mrs X describing the incident
as follows :
" When I was at sea in the West Indies I had a most
distinct '
vision '
of you and you appeared to be trying to ask me
something! " ^
In answer to a letter from the Research Officer Sir Morton and
Lady Smart suppHed the following signed statements :
From Sir Morton Smart, K.C.V.O., D.S.O., M.D. : With reference
1 The patient'.? real name is kno^vn to the Society.
^ A copy of this letter, made from the original by a Member of Council, is in
the possession of the Society.
Maech 1939 Case 35
to your letter of 24 August, I write to confirm the experience I had
at Sea with regard to []\Irs X]. I may say, however, that I have had
many such experiences of what I call " seeing things " during my
life, and in consequence I never pay much heed to them beyond
perhaps making some remark to my wife.
On this occasion we were on board ship somewhere in the West
Indies, when I said to my wife, " I saw [Mrs X] in my room early
this morning—I hope there is nothing wrong ". During the forenoon
I referred to the matter again as she continually came into my
thoughts, and I was so impressed that I said to my wife that I must
remember the date. I did not return till the beginning of March and
had quite forgotten the incident until I had been at home for some
days. When I remembered it, I asked my butler if there had been
any message from [Mrs X], and he rephed that she had come hoping
to see me. I told him to look up the appointment book to see the
date, and this proved to be the date I had noted, viz. 11 February.
The time she came was 12.30 p.m., which would be equivalent to
about 7.30 a.m. on the ship.
With regard to the proof of [Mrs X]'s call at this address, the
Daily List of Patients shows that she had an appointment at 12.30
on 11 February with my colleague, Mr. Tucker, who was doing my
work during my absence, and the Ledger also shows that the visit
was made.
As I say, I have had many similar and even more remarkable
experiences ia my life, but I have made a rule that I merely accept
them when they happen, and do not wish to make investigations
about the why or the wherefore.
1 see no reason, however, why you should not pubhsh the account,
such as it is, if [Mrs X] has no objection.
^
The date on which I remembered the incident on my return and
made inquiries to find out if there had been any message from [Mrs.
X] was the date on which I wrote to [Mrs X] telling her of my
experience.^
(Signed) Morton Smart.
21 Grosvenor Square, W. 1.
31 August 1938.
From Lady Smart.
While on board ship in February 1938, my husband told me one
morning that he had seen [Mrs X] in his room, and he felt so sure
^ Mrs X has kindly consented to an account being printed, but prefers that
her real name shall not appear.
2 i.e., 29 March.
36 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1939
that there was something wrong that a note was made of the date,
11 February.
Some time after our return, my husband told me that [Mrs X]
had wished to see him and had actually called on the same
date.
(Signed) Lilian Morton Smart.
31 August 1938.
In response to a further letter from the Research Officer, Sir
Morton Smart very kindly verified from the Shipping Company the
exact position of the ship at the time of his impression : she was
alongside the wharf at Cura9ao, and her clocks were set to local
standard time. Inquiry from the Royal Geographical Society has
elicited that the standard time of Curagao is 4 hrs. 36 m. slow on
G.M.T. 12.30 p.m. in London would thus coincide with 7.54 a.m.
in the ship.
The following questions were addressed to Mrs X, whose signed
replies are given in square brackets :
(1) When had you (approximately) last seen Sir Morton?
[Probably in the early spring of 1937].
When you called at his house on 1 1 February did you know that
he was away or did you expect to find him?
[I expected to see him].
(3) Were you in the habit of visiting Sir Morton regularly?
[No, irregularly].
Mrs X was also asked if she could remember at what time she
formed the intention of visiting Sir Morton, but she was not able to
give any information on this point.
It is difficult to resist the conclusion that Sir Morton Smart's
impression was a supernormal cognition either of Mrs X's arrival at
his house (possibly conditioned by her disappointment at finding
him away), or of the state of mind which prompted her visit to his
consulting room. It is unfortunate that we have not an accurate
record of the exact time of the impression, but it must clearly have
been near enough to 12.30 p.m. G.M.T. to make an explanation by
chance coincidence exceedingly improbable. If the visit and the
impression are causally connected, the only alternative to a super-
normal explanation seems to be that Sir Morton had an unconscious
expectation that Mrs X would be likely to visit him at about this
time, and that the expectation became dramatized in the form of the
impression. If Mrs X had been in the habit of consulting Sir Morton
at regular intervals, such an explanation might not be too remote ;
but she has stated that she is not a regular visitor, and gives the
March 1939 Correspondence 37
early spring of the previous year as the probable date of her last
visit.
The thanks of the Society are due to Sir Morton Smart for his kind
co-operation in working out the case, and to Mrs X for her permission
to print : also to Lady Smart for her statement, and to the Secretary
of the Royal Geographical Society for verifying the time relation
between Curagao and London.
CORRESPONDENCE
Experiment in Extra-Sensory Perception
Sir,—I am afraid that your correspondent Mrs Varvill is under a
complete misapprehension with regard to the objects and scope of
our present experiments with " Marion ". We are not reporting
on any playing card experiments in which the back of the card is
visible to Marion. At this late stage of the investigation we have
not the slightest interest in testing whether Marion can identify a
card when it is mixed with five others and the cards are placed in
front of him backs uppermost on the table. That question was
settled in the affirmative once and for all in 1934.
In the experiments conducted during that year there was no
possibihty of Marion seeing the reflection of the cards in the surface
of the table. Indeed he was in a large number of tests sent out of the
room while the six cards were spread out face downwards on the
table and afterwards he was not allowed to lift any card but merely
to touch them with his finger tips. In other tests the fights were
turned out and the light-proof shutter drawn and Marion was
allowed to touch the card only in the dark. The cards were spread
out on the table in the dark in certain cases.
We also made numerous tests with both playing cards and stiff
millboard cards which proved fairly conclusively that Marion is
able to identify a card by touch alone.
On the particular afternoon, 5 October 1938, when Mrs Varvill
was present, the sole object was to discover whether Marion would
be able to identify a card which he had previously held, and which
had been mixed with five others, while he was wearing a black
fight-proof hood. I had carefully tested this hood which could be
tightened up with strings at the collar and beyond question Marion
could see nothing with it over his head. In 1934 Marion was allowed
to hold the card to be identified in the dark and there was the
disadvantage that we were not able to watch his movements in
the dark. The hood allowed us to note all his manipulations.
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1939
As he was in total darkness reflections on the table were of no
consequence and the cards were lifted off the table for him to hold
one by one. Ten experiments of this sort were done and though
Marion was not very successful on this particular afternoon, which
was the first for this series, he succeeded admirably when wearing
the hood in the succeeding weeks. Now there is no question that
Marion can recognise cards by touch alone although it requires a great
deal of fingering on his part.
It is true that on the afternoon of 5 October we did a few pre-
liminary trials in which Marion was allowed to see the cards spread
out before him face downwards on the table. But these were
merely to give him confidence before starting on the real work of
the afternoon. In these few trials we were not trying to discover
anything ;
they were not serious experiments. Quite possibly
Marion could catch a glimpse of a card reflected on the table but
this does not matter since he was also able to identify the card
quite easily from specks on the back or from the sUght bend he
gave it while holding it. I could have picked the card out every
time without much difficulty. So probably could Mrs Varvill.
This elementary test has been repeated ad nauseam and there is
no point at all in taking any elaborate precautions over it at the
present stage. But the experiments with the hood had to do with
the far more difficult feat of tactual recognition and these experi-
ments have been carried out with the greatest care. It is always
our practice before trying a new experiment with Marion to allow
him to succeed at something that is very easy and obvious so as to
create confidence for the coming test. On the same principle I
always allow him to finish up with a few trials in which it is fairly
easy for him to succeed. This creates a good impression.
Before Mrs Varvill made the totally irrelevant criticism which
she has made she should have read carefully my previous report
on Marion and made herself familiar with what has already been
proved. At least she might have taken the trouble to ask what we
were trying to discover on that particular afternoon.
Yours faithfully,
S. G. SOAL.
Mektal Automatism and Telepathy ; Spontaneous and
Experimental Cases
Sir,—I am much obliged to Mr Hereward Carrington and Mr Soal
for their comments in the Journal on my recent paper on a case of
March 1939 Correspondence 39
mental automatism and apjDarent telepathy. (See S.P.R. Journal
October 1938, pp. 264-74 andJanuary 1939, pp. 8-10.)
The difficulty commonly experienced by automatists and mediums
over proper names is, as Mr Carrington says, an interesting point.
For it is noteworthy that in cases of old age and partial loss of
memory proper names are first to lapse, though powers of ideation
and sound reasoning may remain. The same thing happens when
one is unwell or over-fatigued. In fact, in " dissociated "
states
generally the psychic entity in charge of the organism tends to lose
control of that part of the mental machinery that deals in proper
names and other "hard facts". Such states may prevent the
subject from recollecting the names of even his or her loved ones,
owing to failure or inhibition of the appropriate (? cerebral)
mechanism, while retaining the ability to think and speak of them.
Judgmg by my own mental state when ill or fatigued, also from
statements made to me by senile and partly deranged persons with
whom I have had sympathetic conversations on their cases, I am
satisfied that the failure of such subjects to recollect proper names
or recent events, or even to express themselves coherently, in no way
necessarily implies senility, insanity or breakdown in the ultimate
psychic personality. The breakdown appears, rather, to be in the
physiological component of being. If, then, a similar diagnosis
may be made with respect to mediums and automatists, not to
mention normal subjects when dreaming, it would be as unreason-
able to blame them for certain shortcomings of memory, etc., as
to blame a musician for being unable to give an orthodox perform-
ance on a broken or faulty instrument. His failure would not
necessarily denote ineptitude or fraudulence.
Again, the state of affairs obtaining in trance, dream and dis-
sociated or automatic states of mind often seems to resemble what
happens when one rotates the tuning knob of a radio receiver so
as to obtain a succession of brief and conflicting excerpts from
various broadcast programmes. What one hears is not by any means
nonsensical : it only seems nonsensical to the listener
With regard to Mr Soal's remarks, may I say that, thouah I
appreciate his point, I am unconvinced of the wisdom of his decision
However desirable it may be to isolate a single factor, for reasons
ot simplicity or mathematical analysis, and to produce simple
extra-sensory phenomena to order in the laboratory, I doubt that
the first aim can ever be accomplished, whereas the second is by no
means easy, as Mr Soal has good cause to know. On the other hand,
it IS a fact that spontaneous cases present a much greater wealth of
material for investigation, and they also seem desirable in view of
40 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1939
the naturalness and unforced nature of their occurrence, as com-
pared with the cramping and, perhaps, distorting artificiahty of
tests done to order. For hke reason I would be the last to recom-
mend the phenomena of the average spiritistic seance for serious
scientific study, since anticipation and autosuggestion generally
produce unsatisfactory conditions for accurate observation. But
the core of evidence here, again, seems to most patient observers to
be genuine enough.
As for the opinions of the outside scientific world, we should
not let them worry us seriously, provided only that we are sure that
we are practising good science and logic—which the S.P.R. has
always been careful to do. The acceptance of new ideas and dis-
coveries has always been a tardy affair so far as the orthodox die-
hards of any school have been concerned. But it might be well
for psychical researchers generally, and some in particular, to spend
less time over the ever recurrent questions of chance-coincidence,
antecedent improbability, fraud and collusion, and to devote more
time to an unprejudiced and subtle analysis of the many spontane-
ous cases that are available. Many excellent and informative cases
are at present dismissed with a wave of the hand as being incon-
clusive. But do such conclusions represent a profound and im-
partial analysis? Very seldom, one fears. And even though coinci-
dence, hallucination, obsession, autosuggestion or telepathy, should
enter into such cases, does that invalidate their claim to serious
consideration? Surely not! Individually, almost all such cases
have their merits either psychological, parapsychological or spiritis-
tic ; and collectively, when properly categoried, their evidential
value is impressive. But other scientists will not, for the most
part, be likely to pay much attention to parapsychologists so long
as prominent investigators among the latter continue to spend much
of their energy at attempting to invahdate even so well attested
and, it seems, widespread a phenomenon as telepathy.
Last, to return to the question of laboratory experiments as
against analysis of more complex spontaneous cases. I maintain
that it is an axiom of all biological investigation, as distinct from
some forms of physical, chemical and mathematical enquiry, that (1)
the whole is more important than, or at least differs from, its parts ;
and (2) that, so far as possible, no organism or organic process
should be dissociated from its natural environment if its nature
and behaviour are to be properly apprehended. To dissect is to
destroy ; so that dissection, though permissible, within limits, in
purely anatomical, mechanistic and physio-chemical studies, is
usually imsound in regard to vitalistic behaviour or psychological
March 1939 Review 41
processes. I am afraid that such a statement will not be welcome
to Mr Soal as a mathematician, whose instinctive aim is, natvirally,
to reduce such phenomena to numbers or symbolic equations, any
more than it is to some physiologists and experimental psycho-
logists. But, after all, such things were not primarily invented
to please statisticians ; and arguments such as that so many
rashers of bacon of different shapes and grades go to make up
one pig have very little bearing upon the life and being, sentiments
and emotions of a living porker. Nor can the most detailed examina-
tion of one tissue or organ give us any true conception of the whole
organism : the well-recorded spontaneous case in Psychical Re-
search being an analogous organic whole, as contrasted to the too
delimited and artificially isolated laboratory experiment in tele-
pathy or clairvoyance. And even in so far as the latter partially
represent the natural phenomena, they do so no more completely
than do the sparks from an electric induction coil, say, represent
the complex reahty of what we call a thunderstorm. So that, if
a physicist desires to understand an electric storm he will not
content himself simply with the observation of small sparks generated
in the laboratory, though that may be a useful subsidiary experi-
ment respecting the principles of electricity. And even the manner
of production of the given event {e.g. an electric spark or a tele-
pathic impulse) may be very different in the two instances ; so
that it is not safe to argue from one to the other.
Yours truly,
J. Cecil Maby.
REVIEWS
Foreknowledge. By H. F. Saltmarsh. Bell (" Psychical Experi-
ences " Series). 3s. 6d. net.
It was to be expected that Mr Saltmarsh would bring to the writing
of this book not only his usual clarity, but the skill that comes of
special study. The value of his work on the subject of precognition
is well known to members of the Society, who will appreciate his
expert handling of the cases which are here collected, and the simple
and economical discussion that he provides on points of theory.
Even within the hmits of a small book, the review of evidence is
impressive, and the examples that are quoted, from S.P.R. and other
trustworthy records, need a multitude of stretched hypotheses if they
are to be explained away. One recorded, admits of an all too
42 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1939
normal explanation : the bishop's wife who dreamed of a pig in a
particular place in the dining-room {Proc. XI. 487). After telling
the dream to her children, and, in the bishop's absence, reading
family prayers, she went into the dining-room and found the pig duly
present. Could a sportive child have escaped family prayers and
brought about the fulfilment? The hypothesis fits child-psychology
better than pig-psychology—there are considerable chances against
a pig's acquiescence in being hurriedly directed into a dining-room ;
and its being in the right place in the room to suit the dream would be
difficult to account for, unless this were chance, or unless the memory
of the dream adjusted itself to suit this detail. But normal explana-
tion does seem possible here, and could be turned to illogical account
for the discrediting of other cases—illogical, because most of the
cases admit of no normal explanation except deliberate and collusive
untruthfulness on the part of responsible witnesses.
On the theoretical side, Mr Saltmarsh makes a witty and salutary
remark on the actuality of Time :
" if time be not a reahty . . . what-
ever it is, which we normally take for time, is so good an imitation
that it does just as well for all practical purposes as real time, if
there be such a thing as real time." In fact, all argument about time
tends to be circular, because the mind is chasing a mental concept
which is, as it were, tied to its own tail. Mr Saltmarsh, like Professor
Broad, does not care for J. W. Dunne's escape from the circle into
the " infinite regress " of serialism, and he puts aside the Dunne
theory on grounds which are more a statement of objection than of
reason for objection ; but he makes the very pertinent remark that
change, rather than time, is our real observational starting-point.
Time is so familiar an idea that we think we know what we mean by
it when we do not.
The same thing is true of memory—and precognition looks hke
" remembering forwards ", with the difference that the event seen
ahead is subject to intervention in the mean time, as in the case in
this book where a yachtsman dreams of his boat being swamped on a
sandbank after the breaking of mooring ropes, and is able to avert
the catastrophe by waking and going on deck just before the ropes
part {Proc. XIII, 401). Cases of this kind dispose of the naive idea
that precognition implies a fated future ; it does not involve fatalism,
but what it does involve as to the nature of time and of human con-
sciousness is a question as obscure as it is interesting. Mr Saltmarsh
does much to lighten the obscurity, not by minimising our present
ignorance but by making sure that while we are necessarily ignorant
we are not also confused.
K. R.
Maech 1939 Reviews 43
Trance. Wanderungen im Grenzgebiete des Seelenlebens. Von Hugo
Kramer. Verlag : R. Lechner (Wilh. Miiller). Wien I, 1936.
This book of 300 pages makes, I confess, a somewhat strange
impression. The author, Herr Kramer, is, we are told on the title-
page. President of an Association for the scientific {naturwissenschaft-
liche) investigation of the soul, and his book purports to give de-
tailed accounts of twenty-two seances with Frau Kramer as medium.
At the beginning of each seance Herr Kramer puts his wife into
trance, and she then discourses at great length (also answering
questions) on such subjects as the Past and the Future, Radiations,
" Spheres ", Dreams, the Consciousness (at four sittings), Nerves,
the Nature of the Soul, Reincarnation, etc. The reports are not
claimed to be verbatim (though notes appear to have been taken
during the seances ; see photograph on pp. 260-261), and the
critic is therefore entitled to ask himself whether Herr Kramer's
book does reproduce quite exactly everything that was said. Judg-
ing by a " Preliminary Remark " on p. 17, Herr Kramer would
perhaps resent such enquiries : criticisms already expressed with
regard to the records before the book was printed are in this
Vorhemerkung summarily dismissed, and in a somewhat off-hand
manner.
The lack of certainty as to the complete accuracy of the pubhshed
records is the more to be regretted as some (by no means all) of
the knowledge displayed by the medium on some of the points
raised and discussed (on the structure of the brain for instance in
the fifteenth seance and on the nerves in the fourteenth) seems at
first sight remarkable, the more so as Frau Kramer was being
interrogated by Dr R., a physician and a speciahst.
On the other hand it is obvious that the possibility of acquiring
some knowledge on these matters in a normal way before the sitting
was by no means always excluded, seeing that the subject to be
discussed next time was often decided upon at the end of a seance.
It should be added that the confidence of the sitters (only their
initials are given) m the medium appears to have been boundless.
It is much to be regretted from my standpoint that so much time
was given to lengthy disquisitions almost de omni re scihili et
quibusdam aliis and that so Uttle effort was made to test Frau
Kramer's supernormal powers (if any) in a more modest but also
more convincing manner. Frau Kramer asserts that she is able
when in trance to review in a moment the whole of the Universe
(p. 245). If so, how easy it ought to be for her to give adequate proof
of the concrete reality of her faculties in a humble but tangible way!
It is true that, so she tells us, she feels irritated when questions are
44 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March 1939
put to her in order to test lier (p. 26, cf. also pp. 65-67). Such bemg
unfortunately the case, the sitters had to content themselves with
very few tioiid endeavours which do not appear to me altogether
satisfactory. At the tenth seance the medium proposed to name
colours after merely touching various objects with her fingers. She
tried twice and succeeded each time—but no mention appears of
her eyes having been bandaged ;
they were closed as usual, and
that was apparently thought sufficient! Dr R. was nevertheless
enthusiastic about this " experiment "
(p. 261).
In view of such an attitude on the part of Herr Kjramer's circle,
it is difficult to attach much significance even to such apparently
supernormal incidents as may have been both authentic and con-
clusive. One such incident I find on p. 239, where Frau Kramer is
stated to have reproduced the last words of a dying person (unknown
to her). Its possible importance I do not wish to minimise, but
I feel bound to say frankly that the general atmosphere of the
seances, the enthusiasm of the sitters and the above-mentioned lack
of certainty as to the absolute exactness of the records do not tend
to enhance the evidential importance of this episode.
The last four seances dealt with Reincarnation and here we find
the medium giving us particularly amazing accounts and proffering
particularly stupendous claims, such as that she is able in the trance
state to follow events in the past existence of another person's
soul " for thousands of years back "
(p. 286).
I regret to say that in my opinion such preposterous statements
are rather derogatory to a medium's reputation. Qui veut trop
prouver ne prouve rien. The faculties claimed by Herr Kramer's
medium are by no means proved by what is related in the book, and
what is worse, the very fact that they are claimed casts an unfavour-
able light on other " manifestations "
—perhaps unjustly. But the
fault hes not with the critic.
Perovsky-PetroVO-SOLOvovo
.
E. S.P. PICTURE TEST
An experiment in the extra-sensory perception of distant pictures
will begin next month. Percipients will be asked to do a few rough
drawings, in their own homes and at any convenient time, on each
of ten successive nights, not missing any. Will anyone willing to
participate kindly communicate with Mr W. Whately Carington,
5, Fitzwilliam Road, Cambridge ? . , .
.
^
No. 554.—Vol. XXXI April 193&
JOURNAL
OF THK
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
ON
WEDNESDAY, 26 April, igjg, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"INCIDENTS OF BYGONE DAYS"
WILL BE READ BY
COUNT PEROVSKY-PETROVO-SOLOVOVO
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members and
Associates zvill be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea zuill be
served from 4.4^ p.m., to zvhich Members and Associates are invited.
D
46 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1939
NEW MEMBERS
Crofts, John W., 53 Caughall Road, Upton Heath, Chester.
Montanaro, Gerald C. S., Lieut. R.E., Old Court Hotel, Bradford-
on-Avon, Wilts.
Student-Associate
Shapiro, Harold R., 4010 Avenue 1, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 372nd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 29 March, 1939, at 4 p.m.. Lord
Chakles Hope in the Chair. There were also present : Sir Ernest
Bennett, Mr Whately Carington, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., The
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H.
Salter, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N., and the Rev. C. Drayton
Thomas ; also Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer, Mr Kenneth
Richmond, Editor of the Journal, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
The Report of the Annual General Meeting was presented and
taken as read.
Two new Members and one Student-Associate were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The following co-optations were renewed for the year 1939-1940 :
Dr William Brown, Mr Oliver Gatty, Sir Robert Gower, M.P.,
Mr Gerald Heard, Professor Julian Huxley, the Rev. C. Drayton
Thomas, and Miss Nea Walker.
PRIVATE MEETINGS
The 162nd Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library on Thursday, 2 March, 1939, at'8.30 p.m.. The Hon. Mrs
Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair.
A paper entitled " Vampirism, Trance-dancing and Clairvoyance
in the Balkans " was read by Mr Philip Thornton.
The 163rd Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library on Wednesday, 29 March, 1939, at 5.30 p.m.. The Hon.
Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair.
April 1939 Case 47
A paper entitled " Experiments in Automatic Writing " was read
by Miss Geraldine Cummins. A discussion followed in which Sir
Lawrence Jones. Dr E. J. Dingwall. Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Mr and
Mrs Kenneth Richmond. Lord Charles Hoj^e and the Rev. C. Drayton
Thomas took part. We hope to include the greater part of this
paper in a forthcoming issue of the Journal.
CASE : A DREAM ANTICIPATING FUTURE
EVENT
We are indebted for the following well-docimiented case to an
American contributor known to the Society, who has furnished
complete attestation of all the statements printed below, but asks
that names of persons and places shall not be made public.
The case appears to involve precognition or. at the least, anticipa-
tion of the future based upon knowledge acquired l^y telepathy.
It may well be thought that the facts cannot be fully accounted for
without recourse to one or both of these explanations. But before
we reach such a conclusion, full account should be taken of certain
known tendencies of the dream-mind in the direction of con-
structing situations that meet the hopes and wishes of the dreamer.
The case is an interesting one for discussion from this point of view,
and it should be added that the care and completeness with which
the details have been recorded give every help in the reconstruction
of a clear psychological picture.
The case will first be set out, below, as recorded by our con-
tributor, and then briefly discussed so as to raise the question how
far a psychological explanation may be adequate.
Statement of Congressman A
As a Representative in Congress I had had two secretaries in my
employ for about frve years. During the last week in March and the
first week in April 1936, the selection of a successor to one of them
who was contemplating resigning to accept another position was
under consideration by my two secretaries and myself. It was of
personal poUtical importance to me that no one except ourselves
should know that I had a sucessor to select. This was necessary in
order to avoid a rush for the position, accentuated by the depression,
which would make a desirable selection difficult. Accordingly the
matter was kept in the utmost secrecy by the three of us, working
at our offices in Washington. 150 miles away from my home town of
X, where Mr K, the reporter of the incident following, also had his
48 Journal of Societij for Psychical Researcli April 193&
home. I had been much away from home during the last 25 years
and did not know Mr K, who is about half my age and who was
raised in this town during my considerable absence. I had, however,
known his father from casual meetings at the Post Office, where the
father was employed.
During the first week in April, my secretaries and myself deter-
mined that the elder of my secretaries, Mr C, should go up into the
District to find the right person as a new additional secretary. The
only conditions imposed were that the selection should be a man and
a stenographer and should preferably come from my home town, X.
Mr C made the trip to X under instructions to keep the position to be
filled 23erfectly secret until the selection was made, and advises
me that he did so. Mr C will add to this preface a statement as to
his own actions on reaching X. May I add my assurances that there
can be no doulit that normal information had not reached Mr K
that there would be a secretarial vacancy in my office at the time of
his dream. I could not then have had him in mind, since I did not
know even of his existence, a statement which I am sure is equally
true of Mr C and of the resigning secretary. Mr K advises me that
except as presented in the dream he had not been thinking of being a
secretary in Washington.
Sometime after Mr K had reported for work Secretary C told
me of Mr K's telling him of the dream he had on 1 April, and shortly
thereafter Mr K at my request detailed the dream to me. I then
asked him to write up a narrative of the dream and the circum-
stances, which he did within some weeks of the happening. May I
say that Mr K, whom I now know very well, is no dreamer of dreams,
is not a spiritualist, nor was he deeply interested at the time of his
dream in psychic subjects. He is, however, a very thoughtful man,
always cautious in any statement he may make.
Nov. 19, 1938.
StateiKoit by Mr K
The following dream was experienced by me in the town of X,
during the night of 1 April, 1936.
The dream-scene opens in an office in Y, a small town near X.
I was seated at the left of Congressman A. who was seated at a desk
in a relaxed position. My dream status was that of secretary to
Congressman A, and we were talking. I was asking his advice as to
the advisability of studying law. From his remarks, I seemed to
gather the impression that he thought it was rather late in life for me
to start. We continued to talk for some time and then left the office
April 1939 Case 49
together and walked toward X, our home city. Along the way
Congressman A was pointing out places of interest and remarking
how they had changed since he was a young man. I seemed to be
rather inattentive, being still absorbed with the previous conversa-
tion. As we reached the bridge crossing over the river to our home
town, the dream ended. The manner and characteristics displayed
by Congressman A in the dream are almost identical with those I
have come to learn since my association with him. I was not
personally acquainted with him at the time of the dream. I had,
however, met him some 14 years before and had seen him on a
number of occasions since. No recollection is had of any other
dreaming this night, either before or after the dream referred to.
The dream struck me as being particularly strange, and in the
morning I related it to my brother, and several days later to a friend
and liis wife.
Background
At the time of the dream I was not secretary to Mr A, nor liad I
ever had any thought of it. I was working in a business owned by
Mr B, with whom I had been associated for 14 years and had acted
as his secretary. These men had been friends for many years, but
about the time I first became associated with Mr B, they became
estranged as a result of a political difference and had never become
reconciled.
Shortly after the beginning of my association with Mr B (14 years
before the dream experience) he declared his candidacy for the
United States Senate. His son advised me at the time that in the
event of Mr B's election, I would go to Washington as his secretary.
Mr B, however, withdrew his candidacy a few months later, and
continued on in the business to which I have referred.
During the latter several years of my association with Mr B, he
had an office in Y (the town figuring in the dream). This office was
located on the opposite side of the street from the one indicated in the
dream. However, the tyjie of furniture and arrangement was entirely
different from that seen in the dream.
Actual Happening
About a week after the occurrence of the dream, on the night of
7 April, 1936, I received a telephone call from the friend to whom I
had mentioned the dream. He stated that he had just been informed
that a party had come from Washington for the purpose of inter-
viewing prospects for a position in Washington, D.C., and he had
been asked by his informant to suggest available prospects. With
50 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1939
the exception of the quaUfications required and compensation, he
had no other information concerning the position. For some months
I had been considering a change of employment, because of the only
partial activity of the business with which I was connected, so I
advised my friend that I would think the proposition over and let
him know within an hour, as he was to report back to his informant.
During the conversation, the thought came to me that it might
possibly be a secretarial position with Congressman A. I cannot say
whether this thought was j)rompted by the dream or whether it was
suggested from the quahfications required and the location of the
position. I talked the matter over with my brother and again men-
tioned my thought as to the position. I called my friend and told
him that I would be interested and would come to see him at his
office the following day so that contact could be made with the
person who was to conduct the interview.
On calling at the office of my friend the next day, he advised me
that he had just learned that the party who was to interview me was
Mr C, a secretary to Congressman A. The interview was had later
the same day, and while no information was given by Mr C as to the
exact position, I seemed to know that it was to be associated with
Congressman A. Finally, Mr C stated that he would accept my
application, and could tell me at that time that I would work with
him, and that I was to report to Congressman A's ofl&ce the following
Sunday. I went to Washington and to the office of Congressman A
and was then informed by Mr C that I was to be a secretary to
Congressman A.
[Mr K's statement that he told the dream to three witnesses is
corroborated by signed statements from the three people concerned,
who attest the accuracy of Mr K's report in this respect. That is,
Mr K's brother confirms that he was told of the dream the morning
after it occurred, the other two witnesses that they were told of it
" several days later ". These two witnesses, a husband and wife,
were told at the same time, and the husband mentions in his state-
ment that this was before Mr K's employment by Congressman A.]
Statement by Mr C
For the past eight years I have been employed on the secretarial
staff of Congressman A.
On 6 April, 1936, it became definitely known there would be a
vacancy in the secretarial staff, due to the resignation of a member
of the staff to accept an appointment elsewhere with the Govern-
ment. This vacancy was known to but three persons, Congressman
Apeil 1939 Case 51
A, myself and one other. A conference was held between us three
on 6 April, 1936, and it was decided that I make a trip through the
Congressional District to select a suitable person to fill the vacancy.
Mr A suggested that I go first to X, his home town, and try there
first, then if not successful to go into other counties of the District.
I left for X late in the afternoon of 6 April, arriving in X late in
the evening. The following morning, 7 April, I contacted a certain
judge and told him Mr A would have an appointment to fill in
Washington, D.C., but did not tell him anything about where the
position was located. I asked him if he could suggest a suitable
person who would qualify as to the requirements I named. He said
he would like time to look around and that I should see him the
following morning. I saw the judge on Wednesday morning,
8 April, 1936, when he told me he knew of but one person and that
he would hke me to see this man. He told me his name was K and
he arranged that I meet Mr K in the Post Ofiice building in X.
Mr K was not located in that ofiice, so the judge called the deputy
revenue collector and asked him to call Mr K to come to his ofiice
for the conference.
I met Mr K and talked with him privately, going over with him
his qualifications. I asked Mr K to prepare a written statement of
his background, experience and qualifications, and said that I would
call to see him that afternoon. I gave no indication whatsoever
as to where the possible vacancy existed ;
however, when Mr K had
furnished me his written statement, I told him to report to Mr A's
ofiice in Washington, D.C., suggesting that he come down on Sunday,
12 April, 1936, and then I told him the position was on the secretarial
staff of Congressman A. Mr K entered the employ of Congressman
A on 13 April, 1936, and has continued in his employ to this date.
Nov. 21. 1938.
Let us now consider the psychological situation out of which the
dream may be held to have arisen. It is well defined in Mr K's notes
following his account of the dream. He is secretary to Mr B, and is
wishing for other employment because business is slow. It seems
probable that his subhminal consciousness could entertain some
such reflections as these :
" I wish I had a more active job with Mr B. If only Mr B had
persisted in his candidacy for the Senate he might have got in, and
I should now be his secretary at Washington. Mr B's former friend.
Congressman A, went through with his candidacy, and has left this
town and gone to Washington. I wish I had been in Mr A's employ."
This would have been very possible as o day-dream in Mr K's
52 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Apeil 1939
mind, and if some such reverie had emerged in his waking thoughts
the idea would have been the less hkely to emerge in a night-dream.
His evidence is that he had no waking thought of being secretary to
Congressman A. It is, of course, pure conjecture that he had,
subhminally, any such train of thought : but it is clear from the
facts that this would be a natural and possible course for his sublim-
inal thoughts and wishes to take.
This being so, it would be most natural that his dream should
represent him as employed by Mr A instead of Mr B, in an office
resembling one of Mx B's but with a difference (on the other side of
the street, and with different furniture). The dream would then
combine past and present, as dreams often do : the wish to have been
associated with Mr A's career and the wish to he qualified for work
with Mr A in the present. The dreamer's problem about " studying
law " will bear this interpretation, since law is the business of a
legislator, and the question arises in the dream whether it is now
" rather late in life
""
for him to acquire the new qualification. This
would be a natural touch of anxiety in the mind of a man who felt
that he had been stagnating for some time in his present job.
The fact that the Mr A of the dream speaks of changes in the
neighbourhood since he was a young man also points to the view
that the dream is combining ideas of the past and of the present.
If some such psychological jjrocess as we have sketched could
account for the formation of the dream, giving it the character of a
wish-fulfilment rather than a precognition, we have to depend on
chance-coincidence to explain how Mr K"s dream-wish came to be in
accordance with the facts—that a vacancy was about to occur on
the staff of Congressman A, and that the steps to be taken in order
to fill this vacancy would lead to inquiries in the town of X and
to the selection of Mr K as a suitable man for the post. And a fairly
improbable chance-coincidence has to be assumed, because the dream
occurred only five days before Mr A's move to secure a new secre-
tary, and six days before Mr K first heard of the opportunity ;
whereas there would appear to have been a long, though indefinite,
period of time during which Mr K's wish for other employment
might have found expression in a dream. Also, the fact that Mr K
was sufficiently impressed by his dream to describe it to others on
two occasions is evidence that he felt it to be significant.
The case is interesting as an example of the kind for which possible
psychological explanations need to be taken into account ; but it
can be held that some element of precognition needs to be assumed
to account fully for what occurred. Or, for those who prefer hypo-
theses of telepathy, it can be supposed that the fact of the coming
Apkil 1939 Case 53
vacancy on Congressman A's staff, which, Mr C records, " became
definitely known on 6 April, five days after the dream, was suffi-
ciently known to those concerned, at the time of the dream, for a
freakish telepathic effect to have occurred. It will be remembered
that at the beginning of the first statement printed above, from
Congressman A, he notes that '"
during the last week in March
"
{i.e. before Mr K's dream) the idea of appointing a new secretary
-was already being considered.
CASE : A VERIDICAL IMPRESSION OF NON-
EXISTENT WORDS IN A LETTER
The following case has been contributed by Sir Lawrence Jones,
a friend of the percipient, Mrs Moor, wife of the Rev. C. Moor, D.D.
jNIrs Moor's account of her experience is printed below, followed by
statements from the four persons mentioned in the account.
Early in January I was staying with my sister. The day before
I left I had a letter from my daughter R in which I read, " Nanny
is in bed with bronchitis." I read it out to my sister.
I wrote to my daughter V to teU her.
When I got home next day my first question was How's Nanny?"
R. She's all right I suppose.
/. But you said she was in bed with bronchitis.
R. No. I never said such a thing.
Next morning I went to see how things were and found N just out
of bed and very sadly indeed, having had bronchitis.
I. Miss R told me you had had bronchitis.
N. Miss R! but she didn't know ; I wouldn't tell her to trouble
her.
Getting home I looked again at the letter. I knew exactly the
place on the page where I'd seen Nanny is in bed with bronchitis "
;
it wasn't there or anywhere else in the letter, nor was there room in it
for a single extra line. Nanny had been greatly longing to see me to
pour all out but wouldn't write as I was on a holiday.
Constance M. Moor,
8 March, 1939.
On 4 January, 1939, I received a letter from my mother saying :
Poor Naimie has got bronchitis."
Veronica Moor,
12 March, 1939.
54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1939'
12 March.
The first week in Jan. I liad an attack of Bronchitis. I did not telL
Miss Moor nor write to Mrs Moor though I was longing to see Her.
Hannah Cox.
When my Mother got home early in Jan. I was surprised by her
first question " And how is Nanny ?
" still more so to be told I had
written that Nanny was in bed with bronchitis, since I knew nothing
about it. My mother was apparently prepared to go at once and see
the invalid which I assured her was quite unnecessary. I told her
that Nanny had sent me a line a day or so earlier saying that she
would not be coming to us as usual on Sunday as she was going to a
friend : therefore she could not be ill. So my Mother gave up
going.
I was aware that she did not really believe I had not written about
it, and next morning. she went round early to find Nanny in bed with
bronchitis and rampant to see her. She had been in bed some days.
Rosalie Moor,
15 March, 1939.
27 March, 1939.
From Dowager Countess Ferrers.
My sister, Mrs Moor, was staying with me in January this year.
On January 3 the day before she left me she said that she had had
a letter from her daughter that morning saying that their old
servant, Hannah Cox, was in bed with bronchitis.
M. Jane Ferrers.
CORRESPONDENCE
Spontaneous and Experimental Cases
Sir,—After reading Mr Maby's views on the relative values of
spontaneous and experimental cases I have little to add to the plea
which I put forward in the January Journal for exact experiment in
psychical research.
I can only regret that Mr Maby does not share my opinions. May
I bring to his notice an admirable article by Professor Fliigel which
appeared in John 0' London's Weekly for 24 February in which the
author—himself an eminent psychologist—sums up the reasons for
the scepticism with which orthodox science and psychology regard
the so-called " proofs " of telepathy and clairvoyance? Professor
Fliigel shows very clearly that such scepticism is not due to mere
April 1939 Correspondence 55
conservatism or antipathy to what is new and revokitionary ; a
deeper cause is to be sought in the baffling and elusive nature of the
alleged phenomena themselves. One investigator finds abundant
evidence for E.S.P. by allowing a mere handful of people to guess at
the figures on cards while other experimenters, at least equally
careful, examine larger numbers of subjects without finding any
evidence at all. Or again a subject produces phenomenal results
with certain investigators in America but this same subject when
examined by ten persons in England displays no abnormal powers
of any kind. I ask what reaction can the orthodox psychologist
show to all this? At the worst he will be frankly sceptical and at the
best non-committal. It would seem therefore that little advance
will be made until we have discovered the definite conditions,
psychological and physiological, which favour the emergence of
E.S.P. And such conditions can only be found, if at all, by controlled
experiments in the laboratory. We might go on observing and
recording spontaneous cases of psychical phenomena for hundreds
of years and at the end be not a whit nearer to any experimental
control or any real knowledge of their nature. Whatever may be the
ultimate verdict of posterity on the reality of Dr Rhine's claims
I think he and his disciples are on the right track and nothing that
Mr Maby has said or can say will alter my opinion on this fundamental
issue.
There is one statement in Mr Maby's letter which I should
like to question. On p. 40 at the end of the second para-
graph he writes '"
But other scientists will not for the most part
be likely to pay much attention to parapsychologists so long as
prominent investigators among the latter continue to spend much of
their energy at attempting to invalidate even so well attested and
it seems widespread a phenomenon as telepathy ".
Surely Mr Maby is not here suggesting that we should cease to
investigate experimental telepathy by scientific methods for fear
that our results should be negative and that negative results are
prejudicial to psychical research? Such a suggestion would be
unworthy of any scientific man though I can easily imagine that it
would carry weight with the large and motley following whose
whole interest in the subject is emotional and centred round the
problem of their personal survival. Let me say at once that as a
scientific man I have not the slightest sympathy with such senti-
ments. Science is interested in the truth however bleak that may
be and not in wish-fulfilments. If modern psychologists thought
that telepathy was as widespread and well-attested as Mr Maby
imagines they would be studying it every day in their laboratories,
.56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1939
])ut obviously with few exceptions they are ignoring it altogether.
If Mr Maby wishes to know the reasons for this neglect he cannot do
better than consult Professor Fliigel's article mentioned above.
I cannot suppose that Mr Maby seriously believes that persons
like Professor Adams, Professor Thouless and myself are conducting
negative investigations in an attempt to " invalidate " or disprove
telepathy. I personally would travel a hundred miles to witness a
conclusive case of experimental telepathy. But so long as my own
results continue to be negative I shall go on trying to find every flaw
I possibly can in the work of those who make positive claims. In
fact the more intelligent criticism we have in this obscure field the
better for all concerned.
If telepathy and clairvoyance cannot be produced under labora-
tory conditions and in the presence of competent unbiassed observers
I predict that official science will continue to ignore them. This
may be a matter of indifference to Mr Maby, but to many of us who
are serious investigators it is not. For some of us are no longer
content to watch psychical research go jogging along in the same old
bad unscientific way, its devotees collecting obscure coincidences
often without even troubling to discover how far such coincidences
would apply to other sets of people and circumstances and deliber-
ately ignoring the methods which the calculus of probabilities has
put into our hands.
Yours faithfully,
S. G. SOAL.
(This discussion is now closed. The conclusion emerges that
psychical research progresses upon two feet and that neither is in
need of amputation. Ed.)
REVIEWS
Drei Vortrdge iiber Philosophie und Parapsychologie. By Johannes
T. PooRTMAN. Leiden, 1939.
This publication comprises three lectures. In the first of these,
the author critically examines certain points in the philosophy of
Kant and brings it into relation with other doctrines, in particular
the " psychical monism " of Heymanns and Polak. The concepts
of ' a priori " and of the " epistemological subject " form the centre
of the discussion. The terms " infrasubject " and " suprasubject
"
are introduced : the first of them is empirical and personal ; the
April 1939 Reviews 57
second means something suprapersonal, it is a metaphysical hypo-
thesis and equivalent to Kant's '"
Bewusstsein uberhaupt ". This
lecture has no direct connexion with psychical research.
The second lecture is devoted to the relations between para-
psychology and philosophy, philosophy being defined as the
" independent systematisation (unabhangige Zusammenfassung) of
all sciences ". Philosophy should never be allowed to neglect
facts : unexplained facts are yet facts." Aesthetic or emotional
considerations never justify a philosophical system though they
may be of importance for a man's general regard for the universe,
but " Weltanschauung " is not the same as scientific philosophy.
The concepts of "a priori ", induction " and " deduction are
shortly discussed.
Parapsychology claims to be a science and must, therefore, rest
upon scientific methods. It stands in a mutual relation to philosophy;
it receives and it gives.
It receives from general philosophy its method, induction in par-
ticular. A theory must never be the starting-point, though it may
take a concluding place. Neglect of this axiom was the mistake of
the ' enlightenment " (x4ufklarung) of the eighteenth century,
though this had its merits in abolishing many forms of superstition.
On the other hand, it is never permissible to say a priori that any-
thing in the sphere of the empirical world is impossible ". The
term occultism "',
it is remarked, ought to give place to the much
better term " parapsychology ".
In exchange, parapsychology has to give a good many things to
general philosophy : it shows that materialism is a wrong theory
and that " psychophysical parallelism " is at least a very improbable,
if not even an impossible, hypothesis. The author deals briefly with
the relation of parapsychology to vitalism, but. I think, no vitalist
would agree with his conception of this biological doctrine. Scientific
vitalists have never maintained that organic phenomena are in-
exjilicable by natural causation, nor presupposed a " mystical
influence " ; according to scientific vitalism organic phenomena are
subject to natural law as much as are inorganic phenomena, though
the form of this law is different in the two spheres of nature.
It is not permissible to build a " Weltanschauung " upon para-
psychology, but hypotheses of all kinds are allowable if they are
considered only as hypotheses. This is also the proper attitude for
spiritualism.
The third lecture attempts to assemble points that can be related
to parapsychology from the realm of general literature. There are a
good many of them in the works of various authors. But, as works
58 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April 1939
of art are the product of creative phantasy, they do not in them-
selves tell us anything about the personal convictions of their
authors. The literary artist lends his imagination equally to ideas
drawn from mythology and mysticism. The only thing we can
affirm is that these authors have had some acquaintance with the
evidence for paranormal events.
Hans Driesch.
Les Metapsychoses. La metapsychorragie, la telepathie, la hantise.
By Dr P. Thomas Bret. 1"' volume : Introduction, et La
Metapsychorragie Fantasmale. (Paris : Librairie J. B.
Bailliere et fils.)
The chief value—to me at least—of this book of Dr Bret's (already
the author of a Precis de Metapsychique in several volumes) is that it
reminds us once more, and in a rather striking way, of the in-
exhaustible supjily of episodes and incidents—mostly spontaneous
—apparently implying a " supernormal " origin and explanation,
which have been recorded by painstaking investigators in the course
of, let us say, the last fifty or sixty years.
All the facts quoted by the author of Phanlasmal Metapsychorragy
have already (I believe) been published at one time or another.
Nevertheless their reappearance in print is welcome at a time when
the supply of new spontaneous observations and experiences appears
to be on the decrease.
Dr Bret will, however, forgive my adding that not a few of the
incidents which lie recalls are evidentially on a low level, and that
some are distinctly suspicious. I even observe the names of some
witnesses whose evidence would not go far, I am afraid, to establish
the reality of any phenomena. This does not detract from the vahie
of many other cases, though some may think that it must qualify
our opinion of the author as a critic.
The volume is of 312 pages and deals with apparitions in general,
and apparitions of the so-called " double " in particular. The ter-
minology used by the writer is bewildering. Why coin new, quasi-
scientific terms from the Greek for things that can quite well be
described in existing terms? The effect is particularly painful when
they are applied to phenomena of very doubtful authenticity.
An apport rechristened " epiphanism " may look impressive, but
so far we have no case of an apport above suspicion. I must decline
either to accept the author's terminology or to follow him into the
labyrinth of divisions and subdivisions by which he laboriously
classifies his phenomena. Suffice it to say that in this first volume
he discusses apparitions as " phantasmal metapsychorragy ", in a
Apeil 1939 Reviews 59
second volume he will deal witli " metacinetic metapsychorragy ",
and more are to follow.
The author categorically rejects the hypothesis of post mortem
agency ; an apparition, as distinct from a purely subjective hal-
lucination, arises, he says, from the " metapsychism " of the per-
cipient or one of the percipients. In many cases, he maintains, the
objective character of the phantasm cannot be doubted, and this
applies not only to human apparitions but also to such cases as that
of the Eev. W. Mountford {Phantasms of the Living, vol. ii, p. 97),
where a whole carriage figured in the phantasmal scene ; this car-
riage also was projected, Dr Bret tells us, by " ectoplasy "
(p. 286).
It seems easier to think that such cases are due to supernormal
perception, arising we know not how, of a similar scene which
occurred in the past and became " impressed " on—we know not
what, nor how!
Animal phantasms, the author tells us (Dr Bret seems very sure
of his " explanations " and is sometimes rather hard on those who
" explain " supernormal occurrences differently), are produced
either by a medium's " metapsychism " or by that of the animal
represented (p. 307).
In connection with phantasms in general the case of Katie King
is discussed, Dr Bret stating unambiguously that this '"
will
remain a sadder and more shameful episode in the history of science
than the condemnation of Galileo by the Inquisition ; for we see in
it all the official scientists (Crookes excepted) yielding to their
'misoneist'i feelings". Dr Bret does not envisage the possibility
of fraud either in this case or in Crookes's experiments with Mrs
A. E. Fay (p. 296).
Enough has been said to enable the reader to form a judgment on
this volume and on the attitude of its learned author. But let me
emphasise again that in calling our attention to so many spon-
taneous incidents showing a pmnd facie case for the operation of
causes as yet unrecognised by science, many of them carefully sifted
and verified, the author has deserved the gratitude of those who
approach the subject in a scientific and dispassionate spirit.
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
1 " Misoneism " : hatred of novelty.
60 Journal of Society for Psychical Besearch April 1939
E.S.P. PICTURE TEST
As we announced briefly in the March issue of the Journal, an experi-
ment is being organised to apply a systematic test to one of the
possible sources of evidence for extra-sensory perception. Volun-
teers who are willing to act as percipients in this experiment will be
asked to devote a little time on each of ten consecutive evenings, at
any place convenient to themselves, and at any hour after 7 p.m.,
to the production of rough drawings representing any simple pic-
torial impressions that come into their minds. It is necessary for
the completeness of the experiment that anyone who can undertake
to do this should not miss any evening.
A mnnber of volunteers in Cambridge will take part in these
tests, and a number of Members and Associates of the S.P.R. have
already arranged to take part. Any other Members and Associates
who would like to participate are asked to communicate with Mr W.
Whately Carington, 5, Fitzwilliam Road, Cambridge. Experiments
are being arranged to begin on April 26 and a little later.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only ". The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 555.—Vol. XXXI May 1939
JOURNAL
OF THK
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD L\
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
ON
TUESDAY, 23rd May, igjg, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" A Novel Proxy Case and its Implications
"
BY
The Rev. C. DRAYTON THOMAS
WILL BE READ
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members and
Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea will be
served from 4.45 p.m., to ivkich Members and Associates are invited.
D
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1939
PRIVATE MEETING
The 164th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library on Wednesday, 26 April 1939/ at 5.30 p.m. Mr W. H.
Salter in the Chair.
A paper entitled " Incidents of Bygone Days " was read by
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. A discussion followed in which
Mr Barber, Mr Salter and Mr Trethewy took part.
EXPERIMENTS IN AUTOMATIC WRITING
By Geraldine Cummins
[The personal experiences of automatists, and their outlook upon
their own faculty and its product, possess an interest both general
and psychological which is not always represented in the more
formal accounts of phenomena as set out in the interests of research.
We are the more glad to give space to the greater part of Miss
Cummins's paper, read to a Private Meeting of the Society on 29 April
last, which felicitously conveyed to her hearers the attitude of an
automatist well known for the character and quality of her scripts.]
I AM an Irishwoman and, therefore, come of a nation of fanatical
enthusiasts for creeds and parties, both religious and political. . . .
My father, who was a physician, once attended an Irishman who
suffered severely from rheumatism, but even more severely from the
Irish failing I have mentioned. In his case it took a curious form.
He called one of his rheumaticky legs his Catholic leg and the other
his Protestant leg ; and however cold the weather, insisted on keep-
ing the Protestant leg outside the bed and completely uncovered to
punish it for belonging to such a wicked faith. He was a southern
Irishman. If he had been from the north of Ireland the poor
Catholic leg would have been just as fanatically exposed to the
winter cold. I have no doubt every race has its own failings. But
this episode, which illustrated our national failing, fanaticism, so
well, made a profound impression on me as a child. And in later
years when my mediumship began to develop I determined neither
to cherish a dogmatic scepticism nor a dogmatic spiritualism. I
leave to others to decide whether I have produced phenomena that
suggest the continuity of human personality or of memory in some
form after death.
For the last fifteen years I have worked principally with Miss
E. B. Gibbes and have lived in her house for the greater part of that
time. She has been my principal sitter. We have worked along
May 1939 Experiments in Automatic Writing 63
two lines. I have produced four books of early Christian history
through automatic writing, also two short books, The Road to
Immortality and Beyond Human Personality. These last purport to
be communicated by the late F. W. H. Myers. Secondly, we have
made experiments in psychometry and I have received by automatic
writing or on the ouija board a number of communications purporting
to come from recently deceased persons which have contained some
information unknown to me, and occasionally unknown to Miss Gibbes,
which she has afterwards verified. I have also had other sitters for
whom I have, in their opinion, obtained some evidential material.
Before discussing evidence of survival I should like to tell you of
our one detective thriller, a case of psychometry we christened
" The Burglar's Glove ". A burglary had taken place at Miss
Gibbes's house. Miss Gibbes writes :
" When a member of the
C.I.D. called to see me about the psychometry of the Burglar's
Glove he said that he 'was amazed that a clairvoyante could obtain
from any object, so accurate a description of an individual who was
strongly suspected of housebreaking '."
Now, no medium should be her own reporter. With the best will
in the world she may unconsciously gild the lily. So I will give Miss
Gibbes's account of this case. She writes :
" During my absence for a few days one Christmas, my small
house in Chelsea was ransacked from top to bottom. Almost every-
thing of value except books, furniture and pictures, etc., was re-
moved. The stuff was taken in my own suitcases and a car must
have been employed, for my heavy office typewriter was among the
many missing articles. In the prevailing chaos I discovered a
stranger's leather gauntlet glove.
" At the time of the burglary Miss Cummins was in Ireland. When
writing to her I mentioned what had occurred but refrained from
stating that this article had been left behind. I had in mind the
idea that an interesting experiment might be made in connection
with it. She returned at the end of January. Before recommencing
our work I suggested that we should have a sitting with the ouija
board for the purpose of '
doing a little psychometry for a friend
of mine'. Miss Cummins assented. She knew nothing of the object
to be psychometrised as I had carefully concealed the glove. She
told me later that she never for an instant associated the glove with
the burglary, with cars or with myself in any way.
" I put the glove on the ouija board and shortly afterwards Miss
Cummins's hand began to move and '
Astor ', one of her controls,
wrote his name. The following are the notes taken down by me at
the time :
64 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1939
" Astor comes. (1)
'
This glove seems to have belonged to some man
who has been recently in contact with machines. I feel that a machine
was throbbing under the hand that wore this glove when last it was
upon it. This is the most recent feeling I get from it. The owner is a
curious mixture. I feel that the man who wore it had a love of adven-
ture and also was easily tired of the humdrum in life. I see this person
in some rather dark place. It is like a shed or a place in which you
keep cars. Yes, I see him round it, coming and going as if he had some
plan in mind.
" (2)
'
He is a disappointed person. He should have done very well,
been most successful. Everything in the earlier part of his life promised
worldly success—after hard work of course. But I think some unex-
pected catastrophe cut across his life. It did not seem a catastrophe at
the time, but it led to his having to give up his work and changed his
life completely for some time. He came out of all that a changed man.
I see that it broke up his Ufe. He was unable to pick up the old threads
—circumstances had changed. His livelihood was taken by someone
else. He could not get back to the old work, his health wasn't good.
He had been through so much. All this hangs about this glove, and
yet it seems as if it were a memory implanted on another memory, the
one overcomes the other. I hope this glove has not been handled except
by the owner.'
" (B. B. G. No, not very much so far as I know. Can youget a descrip-
tion of the oimer?)
" '
Even if it has only been worn by one person I get a second party in
it, somebody whose thoughts have been worked into the glove.'
"
(3) [Astor went on :]
'
I see a man who looks delicate and seems to
suffer from nerves. I get a sense of mental distress at times, but there
is nothing mentally wrong. I only got sensitiveness, that is the chief
feeling—someone very highly strung.'
" (E. B. G. Can youget a description of the darkplace ?)
"
(4) 'I only see him vaguely. He seems to be very worried and to
be set on some plan that is wrong in some way. Yes, I don't Uke all
that part. I get a feeling here of something unpleasant. What is it?
This man is doing something I don't like at all. I see him now driving
in the dark. There are two others with him. He is on some business
with them. They talk in low voices. He is in this matter rather
against his will I think. I see a pale face and a small moustache,
medium coloured hair, a short nose, age I should think about thirty-five
or so. I get a feeling of ill health and great tension.'
" (E. B. G. What abotd the others with him?)
" (5)
'
Yes, two men I see I don't like. They are rough looking. He
seems to be a gentleman. The men, however, have some control over
him. They seem to have power over him.'
.1
Mat 1939 Experiments in Automatic Writing 65
" (E. B. Gr. Can you describe these men?)
" (5a) '
One wears a slouch hat, a dark brown overcoat, the other has
a trench coat, a sort of burberry. They seem to be leading this man
into some dangerous enterprise. He is in need of money, I see that,
through this loss of work. Anyway they go out a lot at night, I feel
them groping here and there. I see they carry lanterns and creep about.
They are so jumpy and one of them curses under his breath. I see them
now in a part of this big town. They are driving down a long street
somewhere at the other side of the river. They have a lot of things in
their car. I see them taking these out, one by one, and they go into a
rather tall house which is much in need of repair.'
" (E. B. G. Can you give any idea as to where this house is?)
" (6)
'
To south east, I think, of where you are now. They seem to go
out at night mostly, and they carry tools with them, but they aren't
workers. The gentleman of the party has rather pale blue eyes and a
short weak chin, and he smokes a great deal to soothe his fears. The
other two men are accustomed to this life, but he isn't, and he hates it
and can't get away. I feel some trap here—the feeUng of prison about
it, unable to get out. I see this fear hanging around it, it never seems
to leave this man—the fear of a trap. At one time he seems to have
served in the army. I can't get anything more at the moment. It is
all mixed up with someone else's memory, the two memories are con-
fused. I wish I could disentangle them.'
"
Miss Gibbes forwarded the notes of the sitting to the detective in
charge. She goes on to say :
" He telephoned to me saying that
the record contained an exact description of a man he had strongly
suspected of being implicated in my burglary. This individual had
just been convicted of a series of crimes and sentenced to a term of
imprisonment. A little later the detective returned me the type-
script with his marginal notes.
' These run as follows :
" As to Paragraph 1 :
'
B. A. was the owner of a motor car and
garage.'
" As to Paragraph 2 and 3 : 'He is the son of a publican. Later
married, but the wife broke away and carried on an immoral life.
He was turned out of business by his father, owing to his marriage.
Later turned thief. Well-spoken and of good appearance, also
highly strung.'
" As to Paragraph 4. '
Answers description of B. A.'
" As to Paragraph 6. '
Again answers description of B. A., i.e.,
that of the " gentleman ", and B. A. served in the Army.'
" In a subsequent interview, the detective informed me that the
description in paragraph 4, was '
a very accurate one of the man
in question with the exception of the small moustache which it is
66 Jouriuil of Society for Psychical Research May 1939
quite possible lie had at the time '. These facial appendages, he ex-
plained, are often grown for a few weeks for the purpose of disguise.
" With regard to the information given through the ouija board,
it must be remembered that Miss Cummins had no idea whatever
that the glove was connected with the burglary. To her sub-
conscious mind, however, the type of glove might suggest cars and
garages, but the sensation of '
throbbing '
need not necessarily have
been the most recent feeling connected with it.
" Par. 2. This seems to be a brief and accurate history of the
emotional side of the man's life. As the son of a publican his future
would promise '
worldly success '. The fact that his wife had left
him and had carried on an immoral life would certainly have been
'
an unexpected catastrophe cutting across his life '.
To the owner
of the glove, his marriage naturally was '
not a catastrophe at the
time '.
But as he was turned out of his father's business, it certainly
'
led to his having to give up his work '
and would '
change his life
completely . . . breaking it up '. The detective states that '
later
he turned thief '. Information through the ouija board gives it as
'
circumstances had changed ... he could not get back to the old
work '.
" Pars. 4 and 6 apparently give an accurate description of the
appearance of a man subsequently arrested and could be put together
as follows :
" The gentleman of the party has rather pale blue eyes and a short
weak chin. A pale face and a small moustache. Medium coloured
hair, a short nose, age about 35.
" In addition to the above description (which the detective said
was remarkably accurate) the man's emotional life was correctly
described by the psychometrist. Yet it is hardly likely that the
glove was in the burglar's possession at the time of his break with
his people. Moreover, into the details is woven the possible adven-
ture of the night in question and of another similar incident."
I mentioned previously that I had produced through automatic
writing, books that give a detailed history of Early Christian times.
The manuscripts of these Cleophas Scripts were submitted to
Dr Oesterly and, as Dr Lamond has stated in his introduction to
the Second Edition, to " recognised scholars representing the Church
and the Universities ". These authorities write in their Foreword
that these Cleophas Scripts " contain much, which, on consideration
of the life and mentality of the intermediary, Miss Cummins, appear
quite inexplicable on the supposition of human authorship ". These
scholars give instances of obscure historical facts that appear in the
text, which I could not have known, to support this assertion.
May 1939 Experiments in Automatic Writing 67
There is not time to discuss in detail the evidence presented in
these scripts. But it may be that this faculty for picking up
historical facts is in line with experiments in psychometry of objects
and might be placed under the heading of psychometry. In other
words that I may have drawn on a memory which is somehow
preserved. But there are many people, including Miss Gibbes, who
affirm that there must be some discarnate mind to present these
facts intelligently and in correct order in this long history of Apos-
tolic times. I am in a trance or half- sleep when these scripts are
written. I have very little sense of the words set down when I come
out of the trance. But I often have vivid visual memories of the
people and scenes described, and I have experienced when in trance
fanatical anger, sorrow, exaltation and despair according to the
emotions expressed in the writing. I may of course be the plaything
of my subconscious mind. But what is this subconscious mind?
A very contrary one in my case. For I should infinitely prefer to
write rapidly and effortlessly—as in the case of this automatic
writing—about modern times.
Since the publication of these Cleophas Scripts some evidential
facts of interest have been brought to our notice. The Rev. J. M.
Black, of Edinburgh, stated in an article published in Light that in
The Great Days ofEphesus, the third volume of the Cleophas Scripts,
there is a satisfactory solution offered to the problem of the author-
ship of the Fourth Gospel, a problem that has been debated by
theologians for the last hundred years.
Dr Robert Eisler, who is a leading Continental scholar and was
Professor of Historical Research at Vienna University, recovered
passages from an ancient Russian document, the suppressed Slavo-
nic Josephus. These passages, he asserted, were excised from
Josephus and were, he maintained, historically correct. He
published them in his book. The Messiah Jesus. Some years before
its publication Paul in Athens, the second volume of the Cleophas
Scripts, was published. In several particulars, notably an insurrec-
tion at Jerusalem just before the Crucifixion, statements in Paul
in Athens were corroborated in Eisler's version of these suppressed
passages. An article by Miss Gibbes giving details of this evidence
will shortly be published in the American Journal for Psychical
Research, so I shall not go into them now. Before his death that
eminent scholar Mr G. R. S. Mead was very helpful in regard to this
case. I am sorry to say that Dr Eisler is now in an internment camp.
But I feel I had better pass on to cases that may furnish evidence
of personal survival. Several years ago I gave sittings to a lady
I will call Mrs Cooper. I knew nothing of her past history. I
68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1939
obtained for her some evidence of identity which purported to be
given by a captain J. M. who had been killed in the South African
War. But as the evidence given by this commmiicator was known
to Mrs Cooper, though unknown to me, she concluded that I might
have received it telepathically from her mind. So she asked the
alleged communicator to give some obscure evidence she would
have to trace for herself. Amongst several things he subsequently
wrote which were unknown to her, but afterwards verified, was a
story which, thanks to Miss Newton's efforts, was eventually
corroborated. It ran as follows. Captain J. M. communicated
that the second battalion of his regiment had met the first battalion
at a certain military station in India before the South African War.
It is, I am told, very unusual for two battalions to meet in this
fashion. So Mrs Cooper was doubtful of this statement. The
automatic writing went on to say that a couple of officers, whose
names were given, had gone on the spree. They had. in the course
of it, broken into the garden of a high caste Hindu. There had been
a very serious row as the Hindu had believed they were trying to
break into the women's quarter in his house. It was with difficulty
the matter was huslied up. Now, I have never met anyone remotely
connected with this regiment, and I have passed most of my life in
Ireland. The regiment was Scottish. I was a very small child at
the time this alleged episode took place. But Mrs Cooper, through
your Society, got into touch with a member of this regiment who
was able to verify the fact and that it was hushed up. So there
would seem to be no conceivable way in which it could have reached
my ears. The details of this case were published in the S.P.R.
Journal for May 1929. It is to be noted that allusions were made
to obscure happenings that took place thirty years before. The
name of the mihtary station and the names given of officers were
correct. The communicator stated he had been told of this episode
by an officer also dead, and that he had not been with his regiment at
the time of its occurrence. This last fact was also correct. As Mrs
Cooper has written to me, the evidence about X. really does
practically eliminate the idea of telepathy. At least, it would have
to be between your mind and that of a very old soldier who remem-
bered this affair, and the names and everything. And even in this
unlikely case there would have to be something to start the tele-
pathy, put you en raffart. Still it is the other things, not hard
facts, which I have got through you which have convinced me."
In other words, Mrs Cooper held that the personality, the phrases
used, the outlook were those of the man she had known over thirty
years ago. Convincing proof in the form of personality, outlook
May 1939 Experiments in Automatic Writing 69
and style, is, in my opinion, the crucial test and the most interesting
form of evidence.
With regard to the evidence of style, I mentioned a book that
purported to be communicated to me by the late F. W. H. Myers
called The Road to Immortality. Apart from a few cross references
between myself and Mrs Osborne Leonard the only kind of evidence
offered by this book is one of style and ideas. Now it is said that a
man only becomes a character when he loses his character. I lost
mine irretrievably through this book. My undoing happened in
this way.
Some years ago I was invited to lecture in a certain provincial
town. In due course a card announcing the meeting, which was
posted to 300 people, was sent to me. On it was written " Speaker,
Miss G. Cummins, Writer of '
The Koad to Immorality ', 15 years
experience. ..." When I arrived at the hall for that meeting I
found it packed to the doors. Never before or since have I been such
a popular draw. I had at last gained a character by losing it.
Many people will probably feel that the material in this book is
merely a fantasy woven by my subconsciousness, just as by the
elimination of one letter from a card a remarkable fantasy was
woven about my past life. On the other hand two old friends of
Mr Myers, Sir Oliver Lodge and Sir Lawrence Jones, have stated
that they consider the contents of this book to be characteristic of
the style and ideas of Mr Myers. I feel that only Mr Myers's friends
and contemporaries are in a position to give an opinion on this issue.
I was a very small child living in Ireland when F. W. H. Myers died.
All I dare venture to state is that my conscious mind could not have
originated these writings. But I do not hesitate to suggest that
evidence of identity given through style and ideas must always be
highly controversial ; and for this reason. If it is assumed that
there is a genuine communicator he appears to use the brain and the
verbal memory of the automatist. So such writing must be
regarded as a collaboration and due allowance made for what is even
on the spiritistic hypothesis the product of two personalities, not one.
Some years ago I gave a sitting to two old people who were most
anxious to obtain a communication from their relations. Much
to my disappointment and theirs a strange communicator insisted
on writing during the first quarter of an hour. He gave his name
as Henry Bois, Highfield Koad, Preston. It meant nothing to the
two old people, to myself or to Miss Gibbes, who was present. Miss
Gibbes writes :
" The statement was made that this entity had just died and that
he knew his wife was grieving. There was an insistent request
70 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1939
that she should be traced and be assured of the continued existence
of her husband. I followed up these remarks and eventually
corresponded with the widow at the address given in the automatic
script. There was some difficulty in my getting in touch with her
owing to the fact that in the writing the name was spelt Bois and the
actual name was Boyce. It has the same sound and was possibly
communicated phonetically. Or Miss Cummins's subconscious mind
betrayed her as she knew a man of the name of Henry Bois, who,
at the time, lived in the East, but had no connection with the
communicator. The widow of Henry Boyce subsequently corro-
borated eight of the statements made by this communicator as being
correct, including a description of her husband's personal appearance
and the condition of his health for some time prior to his death.
" The following are the facts acknowledged by his widow. (1) Her
husband had recently died (5 days after his death his name was
written by Miss C). (2) He was in the fifties. (His age, the widow
stated, was 55.) (3) He was of medium height (correct). (4) He
was dark (correct). (5) He had retired from business, that is, he
had not been fit for it for some time. (Partially correct ; the
widow wrote :
'
He was ailing for 2 years, but kept going to business.
He was not fit to go, but would not give in.') (6) He was not ill for
very long. (' He died 3 days after the doctor was called in.') (7)
The widow would not believe in the survival of her husband when
informed of his message (correct). (8) That he had a wife also
proved correct."
Miss Gibbes enquired at the ofiices of certain newspapers and
could find no announcement of his death. In order to obtain the
necessary information Miss Gibbes wrote a series of questions to the
widow. Possibly hoping that a legacy might be forthcoming the
widow answered the questions readily.
Here we have a case which Miss Gibbes believes can only be
explained by the spiritistic hypothesis. It is a case which has
always puzzled me. But it is possible that my mind linlied up with
the mind of a woman unknown to me and that I received tele-
pathically from her this correct information about her husband. On
the other hand, it is hard to explain why my mind should work
entirely contrary to my very keen desire to obtain a message that
would comfort the two old people who were sitting with me. But
this can possibly be explained by the fact that I am an Irishwoman
and come of a contrary race. So my rebellious subconscious out
of sheer contrariness rejected my conscious wish to please the old
people. But the " Henry Bois " communication was expressed in an
emotional manner and in pathetic terms. There seemed to be a
May 1939 Experiments in Automatic Writing 71
passionate desire behind it to convince the widow that Henry Boyce
was alive in another world, and there was also the fear expressed
that she could not believe in her husband's continued existence.
My subconscious mind, however, may have a turn for drama and
possibly built up an emotional fantasy round the correct evidence
given in the writing and telepathically received by me.
The difficulty of giving addresses correctly is frequently met with
and is illustrated by a case Sir William Barrett related in his book
On the Threshold of the Unseen. It was one in which I participated
at the ouija board in conjunction with Mrs. Dowden, and obtained
a message which we believed for a short time directly emanated
from the sitters' subconscious minds because a wrong address was
given and because the communication purported to come from a
distant relative of the sitter. In an article in the Sunday Graphic
Sir Oliver Lodge referred to it as " a remarkable case which seemed
to prove survival." Sir W. Barrett describes it as follows :
" Miss C, the sitter, had a cousin, an officer with our army in
France, who was killed in a battle a month previous to the sitting ;
this she knew. One day, after the name of her cousin had unex-
pectedly been spelt out on the ouija board and her name given in
answer to her query, '
Do you know who I am? '
the following
message came :
'
Tell mother to give my j^earl tie-pin to the girl I
was going to marry ; I think she ought to have it.' "When asked
what was the name and address of the lady both were given ; the
name spelt out included Christian name and surname, the latter
being an unusual one and unknown to both the sitters. The
address given in London was either fictitious or taken down in-
correctly, as a letter sent there was returned and the whole message
thought to be fictitious.
" Six months later, however, it was discovered that the officer
had been engaged, shortly before he left for the front, to the very
lady whose name was given ; he had, however, told no one. Neither
his cousin nor any of his own family were aware of the fact and had
never seen the lady nor heard her name until the War Office sent
over the deceased officer's effects. Then they found that he had put
this lady's name in his will, and what is equally remarkable, a pearl
tie-pin was found in his effects." Sir William Barrett goes on to
say, " Here there could be no explanation of the facts by subliminal
memory, or telepathy or collusion, and the evidence points un-
mistakably to a telepathic message from the deceased officer."
I want to emphasise one particular point in this case. When we
learnt through the return of the letter that a wrong address had been
given we did not follow up the matter further, believing the com-
72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1939
munication in question to be subconscious invention. It was only
through a chance conversation that we learnt that the message was
correct in its main particulars. At the time it was received I was
a complete sceptic as to phenomena and this was the first case within
my own personal experience which encouraged me to pursue psychic
enquiry further.
Now I should like to make a few remarks about the investigator
in his approach to the medium : the methods of some very in-
telligent sitters I have met show such strange ignorance and con-
fusion of mind.
About fourteen years ago a friend of mine asked me to give
a sitting with the ouija board to a certain authority on economics
and his wife. I will call them Mr and Mrs Thompson. I went
with my friend Captain Spencer to their house. Astor, my con-
trol, opened the sitting by describing an old man who was recog-
nised by Mr Thompson as his father. The nickname and surname
of the alleged communicator were given and he took control,
addressing his son. Immediately Mr Thompson told his wife not
to utter a word because he said it might set up a telepathic link
between them and me and render evidence valueless. Furthermore
his wife and he removed their chairs to the other end of a room
longer and larger than the S.P.R. library. There they remained
wrapped in a rigid silence, and they resembled a pair of deaf mutes
when the communicator asked if his son was there. On receiving
no response he became discouraged and soon faded away, giving
place to a communicator for Captain Spencer, who had remained
close by and reciprocated the greeting of the entity who came for
him. Naturally, therefore, this communicator held the floor, or I
should say the ouija board, for the rest of the sitting. Afterwards
Mr and Mrs Thompson expressed disappointment at getting nothing.
I completely failed to make them understand that telepathy was not
eliminated by the length of the room and by complete silence. As
every member of the S.P.R. probably knows, the intelligent sitter
should not remain completely passive but should at least make some
remark to encourage an alleged communicator. He can do this
without giving anything away. Even if he is a complete sceptic
it is necessary for him if he wishes to obtain evidence to assume
that someone is there speaking to him when a name he recognises
is given. Sometimes, of course, a sitter may be too forthcoming.
I remember a lady, who as soon as her mother's name was given on
the ouija board broke into voluble abuse of the alleged communicator
for having disinherited her. In vain the mother tried to get a word
in edgeways in reply. It was quite impossible. For the rest of the
May 1939 Experiments in Automatic Writing 73
sitting the sitter continued to lecture and hurl invective at the
unseen mother. In parting this lady seemed intensely happy and
relieved in mind, thanking me profusely for what she called a very
evidential sitting.
Another type of sitter is the individual who possesses the blue-
book mind, who has a passion for obscure facts. One of these,
whom I will call Mr White, pressed me to give him a sitting. He
had been to every leading medium, and had according to his own
account received little or nothing from them. Soon after the
opening of the sitting a distant cousin spelt out his name on the board
and correctly narrated the circumstances of his death in a naval
battle. Mr Wliite then addressed his cousin, asking him if he
remembered the name of a tree on an island in a lake they had fished
together fifteen years previously, and also could he remember the
colour of the wallpaper of the library in the home in which he had
spent his childhood. The communicator failed to answer these two
questions satisfactorily, but mentioning his sister's name sent an
affectionate message to her. Whereat Mr \Vhite solemnly replied :
" Because you have not told me the colour of the wall paper in the
library of your fiist home I fear I cannot convey your message to
your sister. Sufficient proof of your identity has not been furnished,
as you will certainly recognise, by your failure to answer my two
questions." All the same it will be noted that Mr White apparently
assumed that the communicator was there. But in spite of having
attended hundreds of sittings this Mr "White, who was a man of no
mean intelligence, had not learnt that correct answers to direct
questions concerning trivial memories of fifteen or twenty-five
years ago are seldom answered satisfactorily. In this respect the
memories of living people are equally faulty. For instance, I was,
recently, suddenly asked if I could remember the year in which I
played hockey for Ireland against England. But to my shame I
utterly failed to recall a year which was, to one of my inadequate
athletic powers, distinctly memorable. I don't know it even now.
And I have a horrible feeling that if I die without finding it out I shall
be denounced and dismissed as a deceiving shade by intelligent sitters.
It is reported that when Edison was pre-occupied with some
absorbing experiment he occasionally forgot his own name. I have
not myself so far reached that blissful state of forgetfulness. In
this sphere, perhaps, it is the privilege of genius only. But I quite
expect to forget it when I go to the next world. However, I would
suggest that students of psychic science should study the memories
of the living when they are endeavouring to test the memories of
alleged commimicators.
74 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May 1939
Incidentally I may mention that Mr White was extremely anxious
to get those trivial memories communicated. So he was quite
emotionally tense when asking for them. He had already clearly
made up his mind that they would not be given and had recounted
to me his failures with other sensitives. Now this was an entirely
wrong attitude to adopt. It undoubtedly tends to inhibit the
giving of the desired evidence by making the medium anticipate
her own possible failure.
Recently a certain Italian whom Miss Gibbes and I have never
met sent Miss Gibbes the handwriting of his dead wife and asked her
to have proxy sittings with me. Subsequently Signor V. wrote to
Miss Gibbes telling her that before his wife's death he had arranged
with her a statement that she was to try and get through to him.
For eighteen years he had gone to mediums and failed to obtain it.
At the first sitting my hand wrote his wife's Christian name. It was
not known to me or to Miss Gibbes. After an interval of time we held
two more sittings at which messages from the husband were read to
the communicator. They gave nothing away but assumed that his
wife was there listening. She wrote affectionate letters in reply.
In one of these, quite casually, the desired pre-arranged state-
ment, or rather its idea, was given correctly. Now I believe that
if Signor V. had taken the sittings with me he would never have
obtained that piece of evidence. He would have been too anxious
and emotional about it. I attribute his failure with other mediums,
who are far more successful than I am in giving evidence, to the
fact that he was the sitter and was too emotionally anxious. I
believe that the best evidence as regards facts is most often given
spontaneously through a medium. A chance remark of a sitter
may elicit it, or a question that is not of the blue-book character.
When in search of personal evidence from a deceased friend or
relative the sitter's psychological attitude is all-important, in my
experience. A little histrionic ability may be extremely valuable.
However much the sitter may doubt, once a correct name or
description is given he should assume for the time being that he
is actually talking to the individual in question. Again, the
sitter should recall to his mind conditions in this earthly life of
ours. I for instance am rather a timid person. When I meet an
individual who treats me with suspicion or catechises me sternly
I am either reduced to a frozen silence or stutter out banalities.
This failing would be a hundred times intensified if I had to
manipulate as well some complicated receiving instrument like
that of another human brain. The medium has the responsibility
of transmission. But with regard to mental mediumship at any rate
May 1939 Experiments in Automatic Writing 75
the sitter must play his part in making the necessary link. This
fact is rather well expressed in a sentence conveyed through auto-
matic writing some years ago. " The medium is like a pipe or tube.
We blow the message through. If there is no suction at the other
end it will stick halfway and no evidence will be given."
Psychical Eesearch is undoubtedly a branch of experimental
psychology of increasing importance. In the Cleophas Scripts,
Paul in Athens, The Great Days of Ephesus, and a forthcoming
volume, When Nero Was Dictator, psychologists will probably find
traces of an industrious subconscious mind, but these Cleophas
Scripts contain a residuum of facts which University scholars
maintain could not have been known to me. These experts have
also pointed out that the Cleophas Scripts have an atmosphere
that is of the period ;
that in manner they strongly resemble the
Clementine Recognitions, Apocryphal writings which I had not
read or even heard of when the scripts were written.
Lastly, the Burglar's Glove, the Cooper Case, the Pearl Tie-Pin
Case, the Boyce Case and others I have no time to mention, present
a number of verified facts w-hich were entirely unknown to me
and the sitter. Miss Gibbes believes she can show evidence that
in automatic writing I have reproduced about thirty different
personalities and written in their varied styles. The psychologist
can maintain, probably rightly, that I have thirty different secon-
dary personalities. But what about the evidential facts conveyed
through me and verified in connection with deceased persons?
I am prepared to admit that my subconscious mind is that almost
extinct phenomenon, an industrious maid of all work. But I
should like psychologists to explain by what process I pilfer from
here and there a certain amount of accurate information with which
I build up these subconscious fantasies. If they would only
explain the process to me, and how to control and direct it, I would
turn it to good purpose. I would tap the minds of thinkers and
authors I admire, and settle down to writing books and plays, and
renounce Psychical Research for ever.
REVIEW
The Theory and Practice of Yoga. By Sardar Sulakhan Singh.
(From Sulakhan Singh, P.O. Sulakhan Abad, Gujranwala,
India. 4s. post free.)
It is said, by those who should know, that many of the faculties
and phenomena with which psychical research is concerned become
increasingly evident as a by-product of the yoga discipline, and
76 Journal of Society for Psychical Besearch May 1939
there is some interest in the subject, and inquiry about it, among
members of the Society. These may like to know of a small hand-
book which sets out the original yogic " aphorisms " of Patanjali,
with a commentary that seems to be as direct and simple as could
be made for Western readers. This is not to say that the book is a
vade mecum for the Western tourist in the world of Eastern ideas.
But those who have wished that they could have a few hours or
days of intercourse with an Indian who could explain what the
yoga system signifies in his own mind, may find a book of this
kind the nearest substitute for such an exposition.
The book has been printed in Central Europe for upwards of two
years and has been brought to our notice on its centre of distribu-
tion being transferred to India. It may be already known to
readers who take a special interest in its subject.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only ". The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 656.—Vol. XXXI June 1939
JOURNAL
OF THK
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
ON
WEDNESDAY, 28 June igjg, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" A Recent Experiment with Two Automatists
"
BY
Mr W. H. SALTER
WILL BE READ
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members and
Associates zvill be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea will be
served from ^.^5 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
E
78 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1939
NEW MEMBEKS
{Elected on 26 April 1939)
Librarian, Duke University, College Station, Durham, N.C., U.S.A.
Redmayne, Geoffrey, The Myrtles, Abbot's Langley, Herts.
{Elected on 23 May 1939)
Cuthbert, Chester D., 302 Harbison Avenue, Winnipeg, Manitoba,
Canada.
Hort, Miss Greta, University Women's College, Melbourne, N. 3,
Australia.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 373rd Meeting of the Coimcil was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 26 April 1939, at 4 p.m.. The
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There were
also present : Mr W. H. Salter ; also Mr Kenneth Richmond,
Editor of the Journal, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Eesearch Officer, and
Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
Although there was not a quorum, the members present decided
to transact the business before them, subject to confirmation at the
next Meeting of the Council.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The 374th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Tuesday, 23 May 1939, at 4 p.m., The Presi-
dent in the Chair. There were also present : Professor E. R.
Dodds, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr W. H. Salter, Admiral the
Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N., the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas and Miss Nea
Walker ; also Mr Kenneth Richmond, Editor of the Journal, Mr
C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-
Secretary.
The proceedings at the last Meeting of the Council were duly
confirmed. The Minutes were then read and signed as correct.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
June 1939 Incidents of Bygone Days 79
PRIVATE MEETING
The 165th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library on Tuesday, 23 May 1939, at 5.30 p.m., The President in
the Chair.
A paper entitled A Novel Proxy Case and Its Implications
"
was read by the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas. A discussion followed in
which Mr iB. Abdy Collins, Professor E. R. Dodds, Mrs Enthoven,
Mr Gregory, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Mr Hettinger, Mr Kenneth Rich-
mond, Mr Soal, Mr Strawson and Mr Tyrrell took part. It is hoped
that the paper will appear shortly in Proceedings.
INCIDENTS OF BYGONE DAYS
By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo
On 26 April I had the privilege of reading before the S.P.R. a paper
I had entitled " Incidents of Bygone days ", in which I had included
various episodes, chiefly isolated, which had remained unmentioned
in two previous papers read by me in 1937 and 1938 and dealing
with the Russian physical medium S. F. Sambor and " Two series
of experiments in automatic writing " respectively.
The following is a brief summary of the episodes narrated by me :
1. Incidents connected with the visit of Mrs A. E. Fay (Crookes'
celebrated medium) ^ to Russia in 1888-89. General impression
very unfavourable.
2. Seances with various English mediums in London in 1892.
Two sittings with Husk were transparently fraudulent. F. W. H.
Myers related to me a striking incident connected with Williams ;
at a dark seance held, I think, in the seventies, a fully materialised
hand seized by Myers melted away in his grasp. At a private seance
with Mme Greek, a trance medium, an interesting episode con-
nected with my late mother occurred, the medium who knew
f nothing about me stating that the lady who had given me a certain
ring " had loved you for twenty years, and you have been mourning
her for two years ". My mother had died in 1890, when I was
twenty years and a few months old.
3. Production of artificial spirit raps (due to action of the toes)
by myself. See Journal, S.P.R. ,
July 1893. Aksakoff stated to me
that my raps were exactly similar in soixnd to those of Mrs Kate
Fox-Jencken.
1 Or rather the medium who took part in one of Crookes' most celebrated
(electric) tests.
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1939
4. Seances with Eusapia Paladino in Milan (1892) in St. Peters-
burg, in the palace of the Grand Duke Nicholas, the future general-
issimo of the Russian armies (1898), and at Naples. During the
latter series it happened that a " third " arm was seen, whilst one
of E. P.'s hands was held upon the table and visible and the other
though invisible (on the table but under end of curtain) was felt
by the controller (my wife) to be in contact with her hand. From
which may be drawn the tentative conclusion that some mediums
are apparently able at times to free a hand by some kind of mental
suggestion.
5. Poltergeist " phenomena " witnessed by me at Reval (now
Tallinn, Estonia) in 1903, inconclusive either way.
6. Seances with the late Polish physical medium, Jan Guzik, in
St. Petersburg. The medium was and is looked upon by me as a
fraud—and not even an interesting one.
7. Seances with Eva Carriere (Marthe Beraud) in Paris in 1914.
" Phenomena " inconclusive, Mme Bisson, the medium's " guide,
philosopher and friend " proving extremely " touchy " when doubts
were expressed even in a very mild way. Another instance, T think,
when investigation is complicated by the presence of a person whom
it is very difficult not to regard as the medium's alter ego.
8. Prediction made in August 1917, in Oslo, as to the war ending
on Sunday, 10 November (no year given). As a matter of fact it
ended on Monday, 11 November. 1 may be said, with perhaps a
little straining, to have heard of the prediction before its fulfilment.
In Part 11 of my paper I related various spontaneous cases known
to me and hitherto unpublished in this country, viz. :
(a) Post mortem, phantasm of M. B. appearing to his brother to
ask him to undertake a very long, tedious and possibly dangerous
railway journey (in S. Russia), in order to tell his widow to go
abroad and not stay in Russia. Mme B. was at the time in a state
of great perplexity on this subject.
(h) Apparition apparently coinciding with death (suicide) un-
known to percipient who both saw and heard the phantasm, the
latter asking, in a concise formula, for prayers.
(c) A case of levitation of a fakir ("to twice the height of a five
storied building ") witnessed in May 1914 in India by a certain
Schipovsky (see Zeitschrift fiir Kritisclien Okkuhismus, 1926, p. 196).
I knew the late Schipovsky well in Berlin, in the early twenties, and
am absolutely convinced of his good faith. I feel bound, however, to
add that during the war he experienced a severe shell-shock which
for a time affected his cerebral faculties, though when I knew him
he appeared to be perfectly normal.
June 1939 Case : The Detection of a Theft by a Medium 81
(d) The last case is here quoted rather to exemplify one of tlie
chief obstacles which confront a student when he attempts to
collect spontaneous cases of supernormal occurrences. In 1906, in
St. Petersburg, a Eussian naval officer told me he had once attended
in India on board his ship a fakir's performance at which an attempt
was made to photograph it, the sensitised plate registering nothing.
But when I asked him for a written first-hand account, Captain
B.-K. refused, though I offered to call on him (he lived some fifteen
miles from St. Petersburg) and bring and use my own typewriter,
so as to spare him every trouble.
Surely such a specimen of discourtesy and misdirected obstinacy
is worth recording.
CASE : THE DETECTION OF A THEFT THROUGH
INFORMATION GIVEN BY A MEDIUM
The following is a translation of a case sent to the Research Officer
by Dr A. Tanagras. of the Greek Society of Psychical Research :
Madame Logothetopoulou, a lady of German birth, wife of the
Professor of Gynaecology at the University of Athens, was intending
to go to an evening party, and in the morning had taken her jewels
in her handbag : a pearl necklace, a ring, etc. These she had placed
in her husband's private cupboard at the Aeginition " hospital of
the University, meaning to wear them in the evening.
The jewels disappeared, and the police arrested a maid, whose
finger-prints were found inside the handbag.
She was held in custody for ten days unavailingly. She admitted
that she had opened the handbag to admire the jewels, hnt per-
sistently refused to admit having stolen them.
Mme Logothetopoulou then applied to one of the best mediums
of the Athenian S.P.R., a member of her telepathic group, ^ Mme
Helene Zakynthinou, who, under hyjDuosis. stated emphatically that
the maid was innocent, and designated the hospital masseur as the
thief.
She described how he had entered the professor's room, opened
the cupboard, stolen the jewels and given them into the care of his
wife.
Mme Zakynthinou insisted that the stolen jewels were in a certain
piece of furniture which she described, in the masseur's house.
^ A group formed for experiments in telepatliy such as have been conducted
of late, between Athens and London, with a similar group formed by the
S.P.R.
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1939
The police then detained the masseur's wife, who confessed the
theft and returned the stolen jewels. The thief had committed the
act ivith gloves on, so as not to leave fingerprints, as he himself
eventually confessed.
Following this, Mme Logothetopouloii sent the following letter to
Mme Zakynthinou :
University Hospiial " Avfiinilion ". .
Director, Prof. C. Loyothctoponlos.
Madame Zakynthinou.—I have much pleasure in letting you know
that, thanks to your helj), 1 have been able to recover my stolen
jewels. The thief Ikis been arrested.
(Signed) E. LoduxHiii'i'oi'uirLou.
(The copy of tliis letter is signed by its writer and countersigned
l)y Dr Tanagras as witness of the original, and Dr Tanagras's report
is countersigned by both the ladies whose names are mentioned.)
The Research Officer wrote to Dr Tanagras pointing out that it
was not definitely stated, in the above rejDort, that the jewels had
actually been found in a piece of furniture such as the medium had
described; and that without this evidence of paranormal perception
the medium's impression could be attributed to her being aware of
suspicions against the masseur's character. (A man who wears
gloves to commit a theft is not unlikely to have a bad record.)
Dr Tanagras replied, giving a fuller account of tlie events following
the medium's statement :
"After Mme Zakynthinou's declaration that the masseur had given
the stolen jewels to his wife, who was keeping them in her chest-of-
drawers, a police officer visited this woman's house.
" He told her that her husband had been detained by the police,
that he had confessed the theft, and that there ^vas no sense now in
denying it. He therefore advised her not to make her position
worse, but to give up the jewels.
" The woman then, trembling, opened the chest of drawers and
restored the jewels, which were in fact in this piece of furniture,^ as
the medium had insisted. After the discovery of the jewels the
masseur was detained, and confessed the theft.
" Your remark that if the jewels had not been found just in the
piece of furniture which had been indicated, we could not have ex-
^ Dr Tanagras appends the footnote : It is to be noted that one always
iinds, in all the honses of the CJreek jjeoplc, a piece of furniture with several
drawers, of the height of 1| metres, which they call a " couimo ".
June 1939 Case : Precognitive Dream 83
eluded telepathic transmission to tlie medium ^ of suspicions even-
tually entertained by Mnie Logotlietopoulou, is very true.
" My personal opinion is that it was a case of distant telepathy
between the medium and the masseur or his wife, who knew the
details of the theft and also the hidino;-place of the jewels.
When the medium finds herself sjmchronised (attuned) with the
guilty persons, we often observe really convincing successes in cases
such as this. Lack of attunement is the cause of frequent failures."
This case is open to a, normal ('X2)lanation, of somewhat indefinite
probability, if there is any chance at all of the medium ha ving heard
the hospital masseur mentioned as a likely suspect. We gather
from the record that tliere was a ])eriod of ten days during which the
theft could have been a subject of discussion. We should then need
to assume that the medium made a chance guess (if she had no
further information) at the complicity of the masseur's wife and at
the place where the jewels would be hidden. The choice of a drawer
in a piece of furniture of a type regularly to be found, as Dr Tanagras
says, in Greek houses, seems fairly obvious ;
though in the case of a
hiding-place it is not greatly to be expected that an obvious guess
wiU be successful.
If the episode cannot be described as strongly evidential, it is of
interest as an example of the application of mediumistic methods to
detection, such as might be suggested by the case of the burglar's
glove which was described by J\Iiss Geraldine Cummins in the paper
printed in the last issue of the Journal. But it has to be remembered
that neither the truth of information received, apparently by para-
normal means, nor its outcome in successful jjolice action, proves
that the process of obtaining the information was of a paranormal
character.
CASE : THE QUESTION OF MOTIVE IN AN
APPARENTLY PRECOGNITIVE DREAM
By Zoe Richmond
[Attention has been increasingly drawn of late to the study of the
probable motives for impressions which seem to be both paranormal
and purposeless. The following contribution to this study has been
^ Dr Tanagras's implication that any knowledge of the person to be sus-
pected would have had to reach the medium by telejMthij, suggests that he is
assm-ed that suspicions could not have reached her normally—a point of some
importance.-
—
Ed.
84 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1939
made by Mrs Kenneth Richmond, authoress of Evidence of Purpose
in the " Psychical Experiences " series.]
On 27 September 1933 I hstened with great interest to Mrs Lyttel-
ton's Presidential Address, in which she dwelt specially on pre-
cognition and asked members to put on record any precognitive
dreams that they might have. That night I had the only precog-
nitive dream that has registered itself in my conscious memory.
In this dream I saw four charabancs, all alike, filled with foreign
students visiting London. These students were all wearing black
astrakhan cajjs.
The dream strucJc me as so curious and senseless that 1 mentioned
it to my husband on walfing.
On the same morning I took an unusual route to my office in
Holborn in order to change some foreign money for a child who was
staying with us. I had intended for some days to change this money,
and this was the first occasion on which I had spare time to go
round to a bureau de change.
As I was about to enter the bureau, four charabancs passed,
filled with people all wearing black berets. Large labels on the
windscreens announced that the party belonged to a foreign student
organisation.
The sight of them gave me a distinctly uncomfortable sensation,
a sense of strangeness at the close resemblance of the scene to the
one of which I had dreamt.
The dream showed no labels on the windscreens, but the informa-
tion conveyed by these labels appears to have been represented by
the dream-impression that the occupants of the charabancs were
foreign students. The only complete discrepancy was the appear-
ance of black astrakhan caps in the dream and black berets in the
reality. I found at the time some more or less relevant association
in my own mind (which I have now forgotten) to account for its
introducing the idea of astrakhan. It is also possible that the
dream-mind, trying to emphasise the impression " foreign ", intro-
duced astrakhan caps as conveying a more foreign impression than
plain berets. I know of other instances in which an aj^parently
paranormal impression has departed from accuracy on some special
point, which has seemed to show a misguided effort somewhere in
the percipient's mind to improve upon an evidential feature.
I have generally foimd that any psychical experiences that I have
had were in response to some need that could be traced, either my
own or another's. In this case, it seems that the need was that
impressed upon my mind by Mrs Lyttelton in her Presidential
Address, for more recorded cases of precognitive dreaming. As I
June 1939 Notes on Periodicals 85
have noted, the dream appeared at first sight to be particularly
senseless, and was put on record for that reason.
[Mr Kenneth Richmond made the following brief note in writing :
" Sept. 28, 33, 9 a.m. Z. told me dream of 4 charabancs full of
foreign students in black astrakhan caps." Evidentially, it is to be
regretted that the actual occurrence was not corroborated at the
time by discovering who organised the students' torn- and obtaining
an independent description of the party. Ed.]
NOTES ON PERIODICALS
Revue Metapsychique.
(November-December, 1938).
Eugene Osty (1874-1838). By Dr J. Ch. Roux.
A brief accoimt of the life and work of the late Dr Osty, Director
of the Institute of Metapsychics in Paris. Having been attracted to
the study of metapsychics by his chance observation of character-
reading by a hand-reader, he devoted himself more and more to the
subject as years went by and finally, in 1925, when, after the death
of Dr Geley, he was appointed to the directorship of the Institute,
he gave up the practice of medicine to devote himself to the new
science. A useful bibliography of Dr Osty's works follows the article,
and bears witness to the intensive and expansive character of his
activities.
Great Visions of the Cross, of Armies and of Fights in the Air (con-
tinued in two following numbers). By C. de Vesme.
An accoimt of reported visions in the air, from the Cross of Con-
stantine to a vision seen in England during the last war.
Note : The author has not come into contact with the remarkable
vision of St Andrew Bobola (this vision was, however, of soldiers
fighting on the earth, not in the air). A poor priest in eastern Poland,
during the XIX century, had a vision in which this saint showed
him from his window men fighting on the plain, and said :
" When
this battle takes place Poland will be free." I heard of this vision in
Poland before the Great War. The story appears to be well authenti-
cated.
Dr Rhine's Methods and their Results. By M. R. WarcolUer.
An account of the recent phases of the Rhine-Soal controversy.
The question of favourable and unfavourable ""
atmospheres " is
particularly discussed.
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1939
Observation of a Case of " Radiesthesia ". By Dr Pascal.
Dr Pascal concludes that the discovery supposed to have been
made by radiesthesia could have been made by ordinary deduction.
Correspondence.
1. A case of spontaneous premonition 28 years before an impor-
tant event in the writer's life.
2. A case of haunting reported at first-hand. The haunting
attached itself to the person of the sister of the presumed " haunter ".
3. A soldier during the Great War had a vision of his friend and
comrade at the time of the latter's death in battle. The visual
impression changed from a face to a death's head.
(January-February, 1939.)
An obituary notice appears of Dr J. Maxwell, one of the founders
of the Institut Metapsychique. He interested himself particularly
in magic, divination and the tarot.
The Charles Richet Metapsychic Society.
The Society, successor to an informal monthly gathering, a
savant's dinner-party, originated by Prof Richet 25 years ago, was
founded in June 1937, under the Presidency of Dr Roux, who
explains how a more formal organisation will be in a position to
keep record of noteworthy material. The Society appears to be
connected with the Institut Metapsychique, and its constitution
and rules are now made public.
Supernormal Knowledge : Madame Detey. By Marcel Osty.
Extracts from the reports of Dr Eugene Osty on sittings with
Madame Detey. Instances of thought-transference, clairvoyance
and precognition are described.
The Functioning of the Human Brain during Metapsychic Phenomena.
By Dr L. J. Franke and L. J. Koopman.
Experiments with psychic subjects by the method of Professor
Hans Berger of Jena (who discovered, in 192'!, a method of measuring
and registering the bio-electric currents produced by the human
cortex). A number of graphs are given.
Correspondence.
A case of detection of crime by clairvoyance is given in a letter
to M. Marcel Osty.
(March-April, 1939.)
Society of the Friends of the International Metapsychical Society.
Report of a speech by Dr F. Moutier, containing tributes to the
Jtjne 1939 Notes on Periodicals 87
memory of Dr Osty, M. de Vesme, M. Mongel and Dr Maxwell.
Dr Moutier concludes with " thanks to our faithful collaborators,
Mile Jeanne Laplace, Mme Detey and M. Pascal Forthuny ".
Julien Mongel. By R. WarcoUier.
An obituary notice of one of the special "friends" of the Institut
Metapsychique. His interest in the subject dated from the Great
War.
Researches into Certain Mediumistic Faculties. By A. Sainte-Lague.
The author proposes a mechanical device for testing such pheno-
mena as levitation, transportation of objects from a distance, the
production of sounds, etc.
Reichenhaclis Experiments in the Light of our Present Knowledge.
By R. Warcollier.
Experiments by Reichenbach (1788-1869) with sensitives, dealing
with the perception of minerals and magnets. Experiments by
Lord Rayleigh and Sir W. Barrett are compared with them.
The Prophesy of the Monk of Padua is Apochryphal. By Dr Pascal.
This prophecy is held by Dr Pascal to be a forgery. He goes on to
discredit all " general " prophecies, but admits the probability of
rare individual cases of prophecy, though he thinks them incom-
patible with the existence of free will.
Determinism, Free-will and Premonition. By J. de Cressac
M. de Cressac, on the other hand, maintains the absolute com-
patibility of free-wiU and premonition. He compares life to an
education, in which the co-operation of the pupil is essential.
Some Cases of Premonition.
A " mixed bag " of cases of premonition, some of which might be
assigned to chance, others to telepathy. Of others the explanation
is difficult or impossible except by assuming supernormal sources of
information other than telepathy.
TijDSCHRiFT vooR Parapsychologie, (March 1939).
Spiritistic Phenomena or Dramatised Clairvoyance? By Dr Hlte.
E. Heimans.
Dr Heimans discusses the various hypotheses which may be
substituted for the spiritistic hypothesis, in the case of a trustworthy
medium.
Raja Yoga, Parapsychology and Psychoanalysis. By Dr W. H. C.
Tenhaeff.
Dr Tenhaeff discusses the points of contact between psycho-
88 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June 1939
analysis and Yoga, dealing at length in this connection with the
teachings of Pantanjali. He deals with the attitude of man in
regard to death, quoting the views of poets and philosophers (in-
cluding Pascal and F. W. H. Myers), and finds points of contact
between Myers' views (based on psychical research) and those of the
Brahman. He further compares the views of the German mystics
(Meister Eckhardt, etc.) with the Yoga doctrine, and finally notes
the points of contact between Yoga and certain modern systems
of psychological treatment.
Some Remarks on Dr Dietz's " Parapsychological No-mans-land ".
By Dr K. H. E. Jong.
Dr Jong joins issue with Dr Dietz concerning his view that when
Mrs Piper produced Hawaiian words at a sitting, these words were
undoubtedly derived from the consciousness of Mr Briggs who was
present at the sitting. Dr Jong thinks there are in this case con-
siderable difiiculties in the way of accepting a telepathic explanation
of the facts. Neither is he inchned to think that " something " in
Mrs Piper tapped " the content of Mr Briggs' consciousness.
Though he thinks there is much to be said for a spiritistic explana-
tion, he is not ready to accept this wholeheartedly either. He also
criticises Dr Dietz's attitude towards the case of Laura Edmonds
(1854) who spoke Modern Greek correctly in trance, without knowing
it in ordinary life. The article concludes with a criticism of Dr
Dietz's views concerning " human radiation ".
Notes and Information (Dr Tenhaeff).
1. A case in which the spirit of an acquaintance of Mr S. H. G.
purported to manifest through a " psychopist ". Particulars were
given of the acquaintance's death which were contrary to the infor-
mation in possession of Mr S. H. G., but which some months after-
wards he found to be true.
2. A case in which a dying nun in the East Indies was heard by
her father to call him as she was dying (he knew nothing of her ill-
ness). Simultaneously her brother dreamed of her. A letter from
her Mother Superior is given as evidence that she called her father
and spoke of her brother while unconscious just before her death.
3. Dr. H. M. Haye makes some remarks on the difficulty of con-
firming " supernormal " cures, owing to the fact that in certain
diseases there are intervals when the patient seems to be well. He
gives a curious case of a man with renal calculus who believed the
affected kidney to have been removed by operation and apparently
recovered.
H. E. K.
No, 667.—Vol. XXXI July 1939
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
, WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
ON
WED'NESDAY, 27 September, 1939, at 5.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER
" Some Experiments on the Paranormal Cognition
of Pictures
"
WILL BE READ BY
Mr W. WHATELY CARINGTON
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members and
Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea will be
served from <^.^5 p.m., to which Members and Associates are invited.
90 Jourtml of Society for Psychical Research July 1939
The Rooms of the Society will be closed after Monday, 31 July,
until Tuesday, 13 September. Correspondence will be forwarded to
the Staff during this time. The next number of the " Journal
"
wiU be issued in October.
Members are asked to return, renew or exchange Library Books
before 31 July. Each member may borrow as many as six vohimes
for the vacation before the Rooms close.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 375th Meeting of the Comicil was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 28 June 1939, at 3.45 p.m.,
Admiral The Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N., in the Chair, followed by
The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E. There were also
present : Miss Jephson, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr W. H.
Salter and the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas ; also Mr Kenneth Rich-
mond, Editor of the Journal, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer,
and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 166th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library on Wednesday, 28 June 1939, at 5.30 p.m.. The Hon. Mrs
Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair.
A paper entitled " A Recent Experiment with Two Automatists
"
was read by Mr W. H. Salter. A discussion followed in which Mr
Barber, Mr Gregory, Mrs Goldney, Mr Herbert, Mr Hettinger, Mr
Kenneth Richmond, the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas and Mrs Stuart
Wilson took part.
July 1939 Case : Automatic Script 91
CASE : A COMMUNICATOE INTRODUCED
IN AUTOMATIC SCRIPT
Tlie following Case, lias been communicated to the Society, after
detailed investigation, by Mr C N. M. Tyrrell. It is the wish of those
who have furnished the material that all names occurring in the
record should be suppressed ;
pseudonyms have therefore been
substituted here. The actual names are known to the Society,
excepting the name of the automatist, who is vouched for by Sir
Lawrence Jones on a personal acquaintanceship of long standing.
Only a typed copy of her original script could be furnished, but
reason is shown for the acceptance of this document as authentic.
On verification of the script, a name given by the automatist was
found to differ from the name as verified in spelling, but not in
pronunciation. This difference has been represented here (by a
slightly greater difference) in the choice of a pseudonym with
alternative spellings.
The report sent to Mr Tyrrell by Mrs Simpson (as she will here be
called) reads as follows, with certain advisable omissions which do
not affect the evidence.
"As far back as 1911 I discovered rather to my dismay that
one of my daughters had the gift of automatic writing. As it
developed a girl friend became interested, and from time to time
curious and generally evidential messages were written down
by these young hands. Many of these are too personal to be
published. The communications generally purported to come from
friends or relations who gave their names or initials ; some of them
had long '
passed over ', but during the War, as we sat quietly
waiting with pencil in hand, many names of those who fell '
came
through ', some known to us, and many unknown but afterwards
verified. In some cases we were able to pass on messages to parents
and others, with great comfort to them.
" I pass now to the recording of what has been so far one of the
most interesting and arresting '
conversations '
that I have known.
As usual I sat by quietly with my knitting, my friend with pencil
and paper, on a quiet evening in December, 1916. As usual the
first initials were those of my friend's brother D., killed early in the
War." [The record states that an attempt had first been made at
spelling with a wineglass and letters, but " the letters were pushed
off ". Wha,t follows is the copy of the script obtained by automa,tic
writing.]
92 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1939
D. communicating. That old game! I used to like it but not from
here thank you! I want to introduce a man I have met here. He is
not very happy because after doing some fine things in his life he did
a mean thing at the very end, he makes himself miserable now among
many who after a very ordinary life came up to scratch at the last.
He is very interested in this, he is here waiting
Another writing. Fear led me to do a very evil thing I cannot for-
give myself it is not what the world thought I have missed my chance
(What is your name?) Whiteman I was here many years ago
(At Balliol?) No at X . . . College i
(When did you die?) I died about so long ago I think about
50 years
(Did we pass your grave this afternoon in Holywell?) I have no
grave
(Did you die in battle then?) No had I died fighting I should be
happier now
(Have you been unhappy for fifty years?) No but since I have
seen so many splendid deaths I remember
(What is your name?) Whiteman John Whiteman
(What did you do?) It did not succeed but I would have saved
myself at the expense of another Intentions are everything we
neither of us escaped (Escaped what?) Death
(How did you meet D?) In the field of battle I saw him die, and
since I have seen him help men to die (We tried to comfort him) Yes
that is what he tells me, to come and help, not to be stopped by
things that were passed 50 years ago, but I stand by full of regret I
taught others myself I could not teach
(Again we tried to cheer him) That is what he says
(What was your work here?) I taught the Word
(A clergyman?) Yes
(Where was your work?) The name has gone it was very far away
(Were you married?) Alas!
(Can we do anything for you?) I have only just begun to realise
what I did help me by prayer it is everything
(Tell us where you diecl) (written very faintly) London
" We were completely puzzled by this " [Mrs Simpson continues]
" as he had written that he had '
no grave '. The word '
London
'
conveyed no idea to either of us. My husband, who always took a
great interest in these happenings, consulted the Bursar of X . . .,
but could not find the name of J. Whiteman in the Register of
1 The name of the college, given in the script, is omitted here.
July 1939 Case : Automatic Script 93
Honours men at that College. Afterwards, however, the name was
found in the Register of Passmen, with the following particulars ^
:
" John, . . . son of . . . Wightman ; born . . . 1829. Matriculated at
X ... College ... 1847, aged 17 .. . In Orders. Went out to AustraUa.
Was lost in the '
London '
in the Bay of Biscay, January 11, 1866.
" Contemporary records of the wreck, looked up later, only give
the name of J. Wightman. Of the two recipients of this record
"
[i.e. of the script] " the actual writer had never heard of the wreck,
and the word '
London '
conveyed nothing to myself (the only wit-
ness of the writing). When the details were obtained from X . . .
College I then, /or the first time, recalled the bare fact of the wreck of
the '
London ', which happened when I was 11 years old! I cannot
therefore be said to '
remember '
it.
" It is not easy for an individual witness to attest his or her own
veracity, especially when so many fraudulent stories are given to the
public. But I think any fair-minded critic will note that the really
convincing circumstance is that until the visit to X . . . College and
the subsequent confirmation of the story given by J. W. himself to
the automatist
—
until then, the word '
London '
conveyed no idea
at all to the two recipients of the message.
" The Rector of X . . . College, at my request, very kindly looked
up the Register again, and himself certifies the entry as given here.
" The remarkable gift of automatic writing possessed by this
writer and her friends seems now to be in abeyance—the power went
as mysteriously as it came—having perhaps served its pur^DOse
during a time of sorrow and perplexity. It is noteworthy that in
every case the '
communications '
write, as does J. W., '
help me by
prayer, prayer is everything.'
"
Sir Lawrence Jones writes as follows :
Juli/ 2, 1939. 39 Harrington Gardens, S.W. 7.
I have known the writer of the script referred to in this case for
some thirty years. She is thoroughly reUable and credible and I
have no doubt that the copy of the script here quoted is exact.
Lawrence J. Jones.
To the question " were you married? " the script replies only with
the word " Alas! " The fact appears in a pubUshed work of reference
that the Rev. '
John Wightman ', identifiable as the person men-
tioned in the records of X . . . College, died unmarried in 1866.
Accepting the complete bona fides of the automatist, we have to
^ These particulars are quoted here with identifying details omitted, and
with the substitution of a pseudonym as stated above.
94 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1939
consider how improbable it may be that she could have read or heard
tell of the death of John Wightman and the facts about him con-
veyed in the script, and subsequently forgotten that she had had
this information. The chief reason for considering this to be im-
probable is the fact that John Wightman went down with the
London some quarter of a century before the automatist was born.
Mr Tyrrell adds the following details and commentary derived
from old files of The Times. The story gives some idea of the likeli-
hood of the action for which the communicator blames himself, in
the script.
Wrech of ike S.S. London
From accounts in The Times of the 17th, 18th, and 19th January,
1866.
The )S.S. London was a first class passenger ship of the day,
outward bound for Melbourne with 270 passengers.
She left the Thames on 1 January 1866 and ran into bad weather
at once. Called at Plymouth (where one passenger landed on account
of the gale). Encountered worse weather in the Bay of Biscay ; lost
part of masts and gear ; tried to steam into the gale until the engine-
room hatch was stove in and engine-room flooded. All boats except
the port pinnace and two small ones were smashed. The captain
decided to run back to Plymouth and got round safely using sail
only. But the ship took in water aft and became waterlogged. No
one thought boats could live in the sea and as the decks were con-
tinually awash, there was no possibility of making rafts. The
captain assembled the passengers in the saloon and told them there
was no hojie for them. This was a good many hours before the ship
sank, so that the occasion was exactly that in which some sort of
desperate action might be done such as " John Whiteman " regrets.
Just before the ship sank, the port pinnace got away with 19, who,
after being nearly swamped, were rescued by an Italian steamer and
taken into Falmouth. These survivors gave long and detailed
stories of the disaster.
Just before the London sank, a rush was seen to be made for the
two remaining boats, but it was ineffectual.
The Rev. Dr Woolley, Bishop of Sydney and the " Rev. Mr
Draper " are mentioned as being among the first-class passengers ;
the latter especially is spoken of as giving religious consolation to the
passengers.
In the issue of January 18th, " John Whiteman " (spelt as in the
script) is given in the second-class passenger list. He is not called
" Rev. ", but the list is given without titles (Mr or Mrs).
July 1939 Case : Stolen Jeicels 95
In the issue of January 19tli, Mr J. Whiteman " is given in the
second-class passenger list, again without the " Kev." But com-
pare the " Rev. Mr Draper " in the issue of the 18th. The impres-
sion given is that there was some carelessness over the names of the
second-cla.ss passengers.
29 June 1939. G. N. M. Tyrrell.
-
THE CASE OF THE STOLEN JEWELS :
A FURTHER NOTE
In this Case, printed in the last issue of the Journal {" The Detection
of a Theft through Information given by a Medium '"), it was pointed
out that the evidence for paranormal knowledge on the medium's
part depends a good deal on the improbabihty—imphed rather than
definitely stated in the report—that suspicions of the actual thief
could have reached the medium by normal means. We remarked
that "This case is open to normal explanation, of soniev\-hat indefiuite
probabihty, if there is any chance at all of the medirnn having heard
the hospital masseur mentioned as a likely suspect." {Journal,
June 1939, p. 83).
Dr Tanagras has kindly put the following information at our dis-
posal, which defines the state of the evidence on this point as clearly
as is humanly possible. We translate his words and those of the
accompanyuig attestations.
" When ]\Ime Helene Zakynthinou told me of her success I at
once put questions to her similar to yours. That is to say :
(1) Whether she was acquainted with the household of Prof. Logo-
thetopoulos, (2) whether she had heard them speak of the theft,
(3) whether she knew anyone belonging to the hospital at which the
theft was committed, and (4) if by chance she had visited the hos-
pital for any kind of treatment.
" She rephed categorically : (1) She knew no one of the professor's
household, with which she had no acquaintance, (2) she knew no
one belonging to the hospital and had never set foot there, (3) before
the experiment she had no suspicion even of the existence of the
masseur Papadopoulos, and (4) she had heard nothing said up to the
moment of the experiment.
Knowing the loyalty and honesty of this medium, whom I
have trained myself and who has belonged to the Greek S.P.R. since
1933, I have no cause to doubt her afiirmations, which her husband
also declares to be entirely true. You will find enclosed an attesta-
tion signed by them both.
20Jmel939. " A. Tanagras."
96 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1939
" I the undersigned declare that I do not know anyone of the
household of Prof. Logothetopoulos, whose wife I saw for the first
time when she came to inquire about her stolen jewels.
" Also, I declare that I know no one at the Hospital, and liave
never been there.
" The first I heard of the theft was on the occasion of the visit
of the Professor's wife.
" Helene Zakynthinou."
" I declare that my wife's depositions are exactly true, for we
never had any conversation about the theft before the visit of Mme
LogothetopoiUou. I can also give the assurance that she knows no
one of the Professor's household or of the Hospital personnel.
" A. Zakynthinos."
REVIEWS
Evidence of Idmlily. By Kenneth Richmond. Bell, " Psychical
Experiences " series. 3s. 6d. net.
Mr Richmond begins by discussing what we mean by " identity
"
as applied to human beings, and the way in which we identify indi-
viduals in ordinary everyday life. He points out that " we take a
person's identity for granted from a first general impression, without
bothering about details, if we have known the person beforehand ;
or we simply accept someone's statement, '
That is John Smith '
;
and we go on taking his identity for granted unless something makes
us realise we are mistaken ". We accordingly start with something
of a handicap in judging the identity of " communicators " from
the kind of evidence likely to be available. This he divides into
two main classes, primary, as identifying " the communicator as a
consistent and characteristic personality ", and secondary, as
identifying him by the things with which he can be associated ; he
points out that much evidence shows a combination of the features
of both classes. After discussing briefly various special forms of
evidence, such as posthumous sealed letters, and proxy sittings, he
adds, "It is best to recognise that we have no absolute test of
human identity whatever ", but that elaborate cross-correspondences
are " the nearest thing to proof that I know ".
In the following five chapters examples are given of different
forms of evidence. These include quotations from proxy sittings,
the '
Oscar Wilde '
scripts, some of the results obtained by a group
of amateur investigators in New York and published by the A.S.P.R.
under the name of Le Livre des Revenants, a case reported by Mr Soal
July 1939 Revieivs 97
from his sittings with Mrs Blanche Cooper, and the " Lethe " case,
in which commimications were received from Mrs Piper showing
classical knowledge far beyond her normal powers, but highly
characteristic of F. W. H. Myers, from whom the commmiications
claimed to come. The selection is therefore well diversified. Each
example puts the prol)lem of identity in a dift'erent hght.
In a brief concluding chapter Mr Richmond emphasises " that
psychical research has to do with personal experience carried into
an impersonal region ", and that " Science separates out and leaves
aside the personal and private elements in an experience without
denying anything of their reality for the individuals concerned,
simply because its business is with public reality. The question is
how much of an experience can be set out so as to make it common
property ". The criticism is sometimes levelled against the positive
evidence provided by psychical research that, v/hile it looks im-
pressive at a first glance, its cogency diminishes on close scrutiny
;
and there are indeed many cases, badly observed and badly recorded,
which fully deserve criticism of this kind. But the critic often for-
gets that there is also a great mass of evidence, which, sometimes
because of the incalculable, but valid, personal and private elements
involved, and sometimes because of its complexity, is in reality
much more impressive than it can be made to appear to the
ordinary reader. W. H. S.
Behold, this Dreamer ! By Walter de la Mare. Faber. 21s. net.
There are many ways of looking at the dream-life of man ; in
psychical research we are chiefly concerned with the dream as one
of the ways by which subliminal thought and imagery may reveal a
content beyond normal perception. We are also concerned to some
extent with the psychological study of dreaming. Mr de la Mare is
concerned, in this fine anthology, with the dream in literature ;
and,
in his long and profoundly interesting introduction, with the whole
mystery of the dream and of the subliminal world from which it
emerges. This is something more than a poet's essay on dreammg :
it is the work of a subtle thinker, equipped as the philosopher and the
psychologist seldom are with a craftsman's skill in the expression of
exact shades of meaning ; and it offers to the pedestrian student of
dream-life a much wider outlook on the rich mental context of dream
and fantasy than is usually within his range of vision.
But there is the poet's outlook, too, conveyed in this sensitive
and lucid prose : the appreciation of a living event which allows its
living significance to resonate in the mind, and tlie rare ability to
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1939
display a living process without man-handling it, or pulling it to bits.
Mr de la Mare remarks in one place that " many lively and lovely
'
phenomena '
(a frog or a humming-bird, for example) are unim-
proved by dissection ; and even a chemical compound is not merely
the sum of its parts ". In psychical research, and in all the scientific
procedures by which we subject mental phenomena to cold analysis,
we are more or less dimly aware that we destroy some living signifi-
cance with every neat stroke of the scalpel ; we are getting down to
the facts, but the facts are only the dead anatomy of the event. The
strict anatomy of events is none the less important ; after all, we
have to decide first and foremost whether their structiire is real or
not. But it is a good thing also to get away from the dissecting-
table and to regard living phenomena in terms of their life and move-
ment ; to borrow a poet's vision, if we have the luck to find it
available, and to dispel the intellectual illusion that a poet's view
is all moonshine. The poet, with his perfected verbal craftsmanship,
is the exact scientist of facts beyond intellectual statement ; and such
a book as this can help to restore the balance of scientific perception.
Mr de la Mare quotes a pretty example of psychological jargon
about dreams, and describes himself as " palely wandering in the
mists of this precise statement " ; and he takes us out of the fog of
abstract verbiage into regions of idea and expression where he is
capable of precise statement and the psychological technician is not.
Admittedly, I am applying the word " precise " here in its linguistic
rather than its scientific sense ; but it is a benefit for scientific
thinking to have the immense subliminal field of undefinable, but
potent, " atmosphere " explored by a highly accurate expert in
atmosphere, who watches his use of words with that artistic rigour
which is as stern as the scientific, and often much more efiicient as
statement. Others have paid tribute to the grace and distinction
of Mr de la Mare's writing ; we can welcome the certainty and
penetration with which he illuminates the more shadowy outlines
of the stuff that we, and dreams, are made of. K. R.
Ikons and Oxen. By Philip Thornton. Collins. 12s. 6d. net.
Mr Philip Thornton, who recently gave a lecture in the Society's
rooms on " Vampirism and Fire Walking in the Balkans ", illus-
trated by his film, has presented his new book, called by the strange
title Ikons and Oxen, to the Library.
Everyone who is interested in the survival of primitive beliefs and
ritual will appreciate this book, which contains first-hand descrip-
tions of curious and valuable folk lore, folk dancing, and strange
July iy39 Reviews 99
customs such as walking through fire. The author saw at Vulgari
women carrying sacred ikons through a bonfire built up in the
village square, the heat being so intense that it singed the clothes
of anyone walking too near the edge. Yet Mr Thornton saw two
women first stand on the grey heated ash and then
" three times round the fire they danced without so much as
a blister on their naked feet, not a thread singed in their trailing
black dresses ..."
He was allowed to examine the women less than a minute after
their emergence from the fire. The accoimt of this extraordinary
ritual is most vivid, and the ceremony seems to have been carefully
observed and the facts tested. There are many other interesting
episodes in the book, such as the funeral of a vampire victim and
the curious trances of the women of Duboka, all interspersed with
lively descriptions of encounters with curious people, and battles
with over-curious insects.
There are hopes that Mr Thornton, when he returns, may follow
up the lecture he gave to the S.P.R., and that his films may be
shown with better success than on that occasion. Meanwhile, the
book is not only really entertaining, but Mr Thornton's theories
about the origin of these survivals from a primitive age. and their
possible connection with modern times, are of considerable interest
to students of psychical research. B. L.
Experiments in Psychics. By F. W. Warrick. Rider & Co. 30s. net.
Mr Warrick deserves every commendation for the meticulous care
with which he has recorded his experiments in the most compre-
hensive book that has been published on the question of spirit
photography. Apart from maintaining the supernormal nature of
these phenomena, the author does not suggest any reasons for their
occurrence. He rightly remarks that trickery is ten thousand times
more likely than a supernormal explanation. His honesty in
recording gives many indications of such trickery ;
yet he concludes
that it is " unthinkable ".
In experiments with Mrs Deane, most of the freak markings
obtained on photographic plates were such as could be produced
by the surreptitious introduction of chemicals. On at least one
occasion Mr Warrick discovered crystals on a cloth on Mrs Deane's
lap and on the surface of a sensitive plate, which on analysis were
found to be ordinary amidol. Photographs were obtained showing
what purported to be ectoplasm emanating from the mouth and
100 Journal of Society for Psychical Research July 1939
nostrils of the medium. The author remarks that this ectoplasm
"
has every appearance of cotton wool ; and after a later seance he
actually found a lump of cotton wool in the medium's hair. Evi-
dence was sought for supernormal radiation from the hands and feet
of the medium on to various types of papers but, here again, most
of the effects obtained were such as could be secured by the use of
photographic chemicals. An examination of the floor of the dark
room after one such experiment resulted in the discovery of a large
pool of stale amidol solution on each side of the position occupied
by Mrs Deane's chair. In the experiments conducted with Mr Hope,
through the help of a third party, Mr Warrick obtained on his
" untouched " plates many traces of dirty finger markings and film
abrasions, suggesting the use of a small instrument for the production
of extras. It is amazing that the author appears to be in no way
upset by all this evidence of human intervention. The chemicals
and cotton wool, it is suggested, are " apports ".
The details given certainly suggest that in the vast majority of
these experiments deception would be childishly easy. Mrs Deane,
who was an acute old lady, was never searched or examined, and
Mr Warrick was in most instances the only observer. Complicated
experiments took place in a room feebly illuminated by ruby lights.
It would be quite impossible for any single-handed experimenter to
attend to all the details and at the same time to keep the medium
under constant observation. It is claimed as a remarkable thing
that on no single one of 300 photographic plates, carefully packed
and sealed beforehand, did any faces appear as " extras " : it would
have been more worthy of remark if they had appeared under the
given conditions. A careful perusal of Exjperiments in Psychics
has given added strength to my conviction that all these effects were
produced by very ordinary means, nor can I discover a single clear-
cut case suggesting a supernormal explanation.
Fred Barlow.
Death Is Not The End. By B. Abdy Collins. Bell. 3s. 6d. net.
This book, by a recently joined Member of the Society, puts the
case for Spiritualism with considerable ability. Evidence is mar-
shalled rather than examined, and serves to support such positive
statements as that of a sub-heading :
" Spirits speak, write, and are
photographed." It would hardly be relevant to criticise the
standards of evidence in a book which is not a critical survey so
much as a presentation of grounds for belief, acceptable to a given
body of opinion.
No. 558.—Vol. XXXI October 1939
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
THE WORK OF THE SOCIETY IN WAR TIME
It is proposed to carry on as much research as circumstances will
permit, and to issue the Proceedings and Journal much as usual.
Owing to the difficulties of travel, the regular programme of
monthly meetings of the Society is suspended for the present. It is
hoped later to arrange occasional meetings.
Members wishing to consult any of the Officers, should do so by
letter addressed to 31 Tavistock Square, and, if an interview is
desired, should ask for an appointment.
The Library will remain open. Members wishing to obtain books
can do so m person from Monday to Friday between 10 a.m. and
3.30 p.m., and at other times by post.
NEW MEMBERS
Bishop, Miss G. M., M.A., Domek, Badlake Hill, Dawhsh.
Kiernander, Mrs, Templars, Bishops Grove, London, N. 2.
Librarian, The New York Academy of Medicine, 2 East 103rd Street,
New York City, U.S.A.
a 101
102 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1939
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 376tli Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Thursday, 5 October 1939, at 2.30 p.m., the
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There were
also present : Mr Whately Carington, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart.,
Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter and Admiral the Hon. A. C.
Strutt, R.N. ; also Mr Kenneth Richmond, Editor of the Journal,
Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer, and Miss E. M. Horsell,
Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
Miss Newton was co-opted a Member of Council.
A CORRECTION
A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success
The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas writes :
—
May I ask members to delete the last paragraph on p. 270 of
my article in the S.P.R. Proceedings for July 1939, which states
that Mr Macaulay was introduced without any inquiry or remark by
me. When writing that article I overlooked the fact that, during
my sister's personal control four weeks earlier, I had asked her to
inform Mr Macaulay that " his daughter wished to know if he had
anything to say about her recent visit to Ireland and also that
Professor Lewis would appreciate a message from his first wife ".
Although I know of no evidence to suggest that Eeda is aware of
matters spoken about while my father or sister control the medium,
it is obvious that she might ascertain such information, whether by
conversation with them or from the medium's mind. Hence nothing
can be based on the manner in which Mr Macaulay was introduced
on 22 January 1937, after seventeen weeks' silence.
October 1939 A New Type of Proxy Case 103
A NEW TYPE OF PEOXY CASE
Evidential Messages given before it is known avho
will apply for them
By C. Drayton Thomas
I. Aitken.
At a Leonard sitting on 28 October 1938, my regular communi-
cators inquired if I had recently received a letter from a middle aged
man about his son. As I had not received any such letter they pro-
ceeded to give some particulars and I promised to keep the matter
in mind and await results.
In less than two weeks a letter arrived which seemed to meet the
case. In correspondence with its writer the following facts emerged ;
they are here placed for comparison under items given at the sitting.
1. / am to expect a letter from a father about his son. Such a letter
xeached me and it was dated eleven days after this sitting. The writer,
Mr Lionel G. Aitken, is a member of the S.P.R. He tells me that he
first thought of writing after hearing me speak at a Queen's Hall
meeting on 9 October, which was three weeks before this sitting.
One sentence of that letter reads,
'
' Not very long ago I lost a son,
a splendid young man, full of the joy of life and success." After
reference to certain London mediums it continues, " I think on the
whole that we have been most fortunate in the evidential nature of
the messages received." Finally my ad^^ce was asked about other
mediums, but no word to suggest that I might possibly obtain a
message for him through Mrs Leonard.
On my inquiring when Mr Aitken had first thought of writing he
replied, " I don't think I had thought of mentioning my case to you
and asking for advice until I actually wrote the letter. I merely
intended to thank you for your address. It appears that you had
news of something I was going to write days before I wrote it or had
consciously thought of it."
2. The father is middle aged. This is correct.
3. An accident case. This also is correct.
4. Connected with a motor car. Mr Aitken writes, " Not a motor
car accident exactly."
5. The young man was Idlled outright or very nearly so. He was
killed outright.
6. Morton or a like-sounding name ; this father once lived, near
-where you lived. In correspondence about this statement I learnt
that Mr Aitken had resided at the village of Norton and that his son
was born there and had been familiar with all the neighbourhood.
104 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October igs^'
Norton is but one and a half miles from Baldock where I had lived
with my parents in 1876-8. Is it too much to suppose that Feda'a
" Morton " was misheard by her for Norton?
7. Another vmne like Char— is given. This was unsatisfactory,
just possibly an attempt for Charles, the Christian name of Mr
Aitken's friend killed at Gallipoli.
The above derives special significance from the facts :
(a) I had not heard of this family.
(b) There had been no intercourse between them and Mrs Leonard.
(c) The son had previously proved himself an able communicator.
(d) At four later Leonard sittings he gave additional evidences of
his identity, one of these being a group of connected facts
imknown to his father but common knowledge to the
deceased and his surviving brother.
Whence came the information that Mr Aitken and I had lived in
the same locality? On my writing to ask for a list of his places of
residence he named several and added that Hertfordshire seemed
the most likely to be the one intended. On our discovering that
Baldock and Norton (both in Hertfordshire) met the case, I pointed
out that my former residence at Baldock was mentioned in two of
my books and inquired what had led him to suppose that Hertford-
shire was meant. He wrote in reply, " I had read your book Life
Beyond Death with Evidence, and therefore was unconsciously aware
before the first message came through that we both had lived at or
near Baldock. But my conscious reason for saying in my second
letter that I suspected the place would be in Hertfordshire was that
my son's first and depest memories were of that locality and as I
was sure that he was behind the messages I natiirally thought of
places connected with him ".
It will be admitted that in this case the link between me and the
(expected) applicant was exceedingly tenuous, if indeed it can be
said to have even existed.
The crucial dates are : 9 Octoljer, Mr Aitken hears me speak at
a public service. 28 October, the message given at my sitting.
8 November, Mr Aitken writes his letter.
Those who incline to the universal telepathy hypothesis will
suggest that the messages originated with Mr Aitken. But this
would imply that the medium tapped Mr Aitken's memory before
either she or I were aware of his existence and, more incredible still,
that she divined a purpose of which he remained entirely unaware
until he was in the act of writing to thank me for remarks he heard
me make in public.
October 1939 A New Type of Proxy Case 105
II. Netherton.
At a Leonard sitting on 17 March 1939, I received a group of
messages with this introduction :
Feda : Will you keep a look out for a letter asking you about
a ladv, no one we have had, a new one. I think that someone
has written or is writing to ask if you can help about her. The
one she's expecting to write to you is a man, and she at once
gives me rather a connection, as if they had some rather close
connection with churches in general in some way.
C. D. T. : Does the lady say that she knows me?
Feda : Yes, she does.
Evidential references now followed and the communication ended
thus :
C. D. T. : Won't it be a pity, Feda, if after taking all this
trouble I don't get any inquiry!
Feda : I think you will and soon. I have got quite a lot and
I don't think I can get any more ; it's enough for you to be able
to place her. Your sister says, " Of course it is nice to have as
much as you can before you know who it is." The lady seems
satisfied and says, " I'll see what I can do."
Ten days later I received a letter, dated 25 March, from Mr C. G.
Netherton of Bournemouth. It stated that he had just read one of
my books and asked if I were son of the Rev. Drayton Thomas whose
Church at Ramsgate he used to attend. He also mentioned that his
wife died two years back.
In my reply, enclosing a full record of this sitting, I asked at what
date he had decided to write to me. He replied that it was a day or
so before he actually wrote the letter, but that the idea of doing so
had been in his mind since seeing a letter of mine in the Methodist
Recorder of 2 March on the reality and religious value of communi-
cation with the departed.
When later I met Mr Netherton and asked if he had expected to
receive a message from his wife as a result of writing to me, his reply
was that he had no such expectation ; on second thoughts he ad-
mitted that perhaps some such idea was at back of his mind. I
ascertained that Mr Netherton had not known or corresponded with
]\Irs Leonard.
On checking the evidential items of this first sitting we found that
23 out of 31 were correct, a 70 per cent, success. Further evidence
given at subsequent sittings added to the certainty of the communi-
cator's identity. Mr Netherton informs me that his wife was a fixm
lOG Journal of Sociehj for Psychical Research October 193^
believer in the possibility of communication with departed friends.
Was she, dm'ing the interval between my sitting and his letter, im-
pressing him to Avrite? It is clear that, had he not written, all the
messages given on 17 March would have been waste of time.
The crucial dates are : My letter to the Press on 2 March. The
sitting of 17 March. Mr Netherton's first letter to me on 25 March.
Was there any link between the Nethertons and me? If it
existed the hint lay in two remarks at the beginning of the sitting,
(a)
'
Some rather close connection with Churches.' (6)
" The lady
knew me." Now I find that Mr Netherton is a Methodist Lay
Preacher and that during the period 1901-3 he and his wife attended
my father's Church at Ramsgate. On my visits home in those years
the Nethertons would have seen me and known that I was the
minister's son. I have no recollection of them.
Can it be supposed that this constituted a mental link between
Mr Netherton and me? He only guessed my relationship with the
minister of the Ramsgate Church in 1901-3 and wrote for information
on that point. True he had read something from my pen, but if that
constitutes an available link for transmitting the reader's memories
to Mrs Leonard or to me, then I ought to be having thousands of
cases like the above.
CORRESPONDENCE
The Position of Psychical Research
To the Editor of The Journal
Sir,—The pubHcation of the series of small books under the
heading Psychical Experiences and some of the review^s of these books
in the public press afford a good opportunity of observing how-
psychical research, as a whole, is regarded by critics who approach
it from opposite angles, from the angle of organised science, and
from that of organised spiritualism.
In the issue of Nature for the 11 February 1939 there is a full page
review of the four first volmnes of the series (Mrs Richmond's
" Evidence of Purpose ", Mr Saltmarsh's " Foreknowledge ", Mr
Cuddon's " Hypnosis " and my own " Ghosts and Apparitions ")
and also of Mr Tyrrell's book, " Science and Psychical Phenomena ".
In several respects the review is a favourable one, and it may be
hoped that many scientists at present uninterested in the subject
may be encouraged by it to give it their attention. Mr Tyrrell's book
is well described as " one of the best surveys so far pubhshed ", " a
persuasive and thought-provoking volume ", and of the other
October 1939 Correspondefice 107
volumes it is said that " the student who wishes to become ac-
quainted with the best cases the Society has to offer cannot do
better than read these books, and then, if he wishes, he can go back
to the original sources for additional information ".
These commendatory remarks, which are welcome in a paper of
Nature's standing among scientists, are however followed by a some-
what double-edged paragraph which begins as follows : "It can
scarcely be denied that, viewed as attempts to claim scientific recog-
nition, these volumes are of great interest. To one wholly untrained
in psychical research and with no knowledge of what lies behind
much of the imj^ressive fa§ade, the effect must be considerable.
Only careful analysis and years of experience wiU weaken that
effect, for it is but here and there that the authors under review cite
cases as good, which are so clearly full of flaws that suspicion of
their critical faculties is aroused." The implications of these
sentences are that the phenomena discussed in these books have
" an impressive fagade " but no sound foundations, and that the
reviewer, who does not give his name or initials, is in a position,
from his own superior knowledge of psychical research, to exjjose
the hoUowness of the fagade. It is to be noted that he is not content
with speaking of the soUdity of the structure as doubtful : he
assumes that " careful analysis and years of experience will weaken
"
the impression created by a first reading of the book. His condes-
cending remark that " it is but here and there that the authors under
review cite cases as good, which are so clearly fuU of flaws that
suspicion of their critical faculties is aroused " can carry no weight
without specific mention of the cases open to this criticism ; such a
sentence is in fact merely bad reviewing.
The criticism about " the impressive fagade " conveys a partial
truth, and deserves further consideration. It would be generally
agreed among our members, and not least among the authors of the
books under review, that many much advertised psychic pheno-
mena will not stand close scrutiny. Had the reviewer confined his
criticism to these, no objection could have been taken. But the
types of phenomena, to which this criticism can fairly be applied,
are hardly mentioned in these books. There is therefore a risk lest
the guileless scientist, who is conscious of his own ignorance of
psychical research, may be misled by a reviewer, who professes to
know all about it, into supposing that the phenomena on which Mr
Tyrrell and the authors of Messrs Bell's series dwell are equally
shoddy, although it is the general opinion of intelligent persons who
have studied the matter that they rest for the most part on sound
foundations.
108 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1939
It would also have been well if the reader of Nature had been
warned that some of the phenomena treated in these books are the
subject of highly specialised investigation, so that unless the un-
named reviewer belongs (as I am certain he does not) to the very
small number of specialists, his claim to set the authors of these
books right has about as much justification as would attach to a
claim on my part to instruct Professor Julian Huxley in the rearing
of Giant Pandas in captivity.
To turn now to the criticisms from the angle of spiritualism, the
books of Messrs Bell's series have been reviewed by Light as they
appeared, and in addition to the reviews several issues of that paper
have contained articles and correspondence on them.
It is a misfortune for all concerned that the reviewer seems some-
times to have been so much irritated by the books as to be unable
to deal with them with ordinary accuracy. I may perhaps be
allowed to mention that my own book on " Ghosts and Apparitions
"
was attributed to Mr Saltmarsh, which was of course a great compli-
ment to myself ; later on Mr Saltmarsh very properly received from
the reviewer an apology for this horrible imputation. In another
instance, Mr Richmond's discussion of the " Lethe Case " in his
" Evidence of Identity ", the reviewer seems to have supposed that
Mr Piddington, whom Mr Richmond quotes, accepted telepathy
between the living as a sufficient explanation of the incident,
whereas it is perfectly clear from Mr Richmond's discussion of the
case that Mr Piddington, after full discussion of that explanation,
definitely rejected it.
The inaccuracies of a single reviewer would not, however, be
worth attention in our Journal, if it were not for the fact that it
is obvious that the reviewer, and many of the readers of Light
with him, are under a very curious misapprehension as to the attitude
of our Society to telepathy and, in particular, as to the bearing of
telepathy on the problem of survival and communication.
The nature of the misapprehension may be conveniently illus-
trated by a few short quotations from Light. The review of
Mr Richmond's " Evidence of Identity " in the issue of the 15 June
was headed " The Problem of Identity : Telepathy as a '
City of
Refuge ' for timid Psychical Researchers ", and contains the
following passage
:
" This matter of telepathy, for instance? Has the Society
any corporate conviction about it? Is it or is it not?
One knows many members of the Society who regard tele-
pathy with undisguised contempt, and they certainly appear
OCTOBEK 1939 Correspondence 109
to consider themselves to be in accord with the majority of
members.
To that, of course, one could offer no objection ;
indeed, one
is very glad to be rid of telepathy being treated as a city of
refuge in psychic matters.
But, in that case, telepathy must not be used, as Mr Rich-
mond uses it, as such a city when the Researcher is hard
pressed by a Spiritualist pursuer."
In the issue of the 22 June there is a reply from Mr Richmond
containing the following passage :
" Concerning telepathy, he [the reviewer] asks :
'
Has the
Society (the S.P.R.) any corporate conviction about it?
'
Without claiming to speak for the Society, let me point to
p. 106 in my book, where I have remarked of Psychical Re-
search in general :
'
It can hardly be said too often that
scientific method is not devised to provide or to support con-
victions. It is devised to examine evidence. ... It has to
leave out no explanation which is possible '."
To which the reviewer replied in the same issue :
" In spite of Mr Richmond's letter, I would still ask :
'
Has
the Society (the S.P.R.) any corporate conviction about tele-
pathy '?
"
Mr Richmond's material is mostly selected from its Pro-
ceedings, and since, in them, telepathy is frequently proposed
as an explanation, surely one is entitled to enquire if the
Society believes in its own answers, especially since so many of
its members obviously do not?
"
To members of our Society, accustomed as we are to breathing an
atmosphere of free discussion and friendly difference of opinion, it
may seem extraordinary that any reviewer who has reviewed several
books pubhshed by members of the Society, and therefore probably
read at least considerable portions of them, should be unaware that
expression of corporate opinion is the very last thing which our
Society desires or ought to desire. I do not know whether the
astronomers, or the biologists, or the physicists have ever expressed
corporate opinions on the theories of Copernicus, Darwin or Ein-
stein, but it is clear that any Society enquiring into a subject with
as short a history as organised psychical research has, would lose
all title to the term research if it expressed a corporate opinion on
any of the questions it investigates, or required from its members the
acceptance of any particular opinion regarding them. Obviously,
however, many spirituaUsts suppose that the amount of attention
110 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 193&
that our Society has always devoted to the question of telepathy is
indicative of a desire on the part of the leading members of the
Society to put it up as a plausible defence against belief in spiri-
tualism.
As a plain matter of history this is of course absurd. Among the
pioneers of the Society none did more to press the case for telepathy
than Sir William Barrett and F. W. H. Myers, both convinced
believers in survival and communication. Again, Mrs Sidgwick's
life-long study of telepathy and belief in it, did not prevent her
making on the occasion of the Society's Jubilee her memorable
declaration :
" that, upon the evidence before her, she herself is a
firm believer both in survival and in the reality of communication
between the living and the dead." The same opinion has been held
and expressed by many other members of the Society.
It will probably seem to most of our members, as it certainly
seemed to Myers and Mrs Sidgwick, impossible to examine the
problem of survival and communication to any purpose without a
previous examination, as full as conditions will permit, of the
question of telepathy. It should be remembered that Myers's well-
known definition of telepathy, " the communication of impressions
of any kind from one mind to another, independently of the recog-
nised channels of sense ", is framed in such a way as to include
communication from a discarnate mind to the mind of a living
person. Unfortunately, for the sake of brevity the word " tele-
pathy " is sometimes used by writers to mean " telepathy between
the living ", and this misuse of the word has given rise to a false
opposition between telepathy and survival.
It seems to me extremely difi&cult to examine the whole range of
the mental phenomena of psychical research (including veridical
dreams and hallucinations, death apparitions, experimental tele-
pathy, automatic writing, trance mediumship) without reaching
the conclusion that the study of any one type of phenomenon
within this group is of the greatest assistance in studying all the
other types, and moreover that there is some similarity, if not com-
plete unity, of mental process involved in them all. The habit of
regarding these phenomena as to this extent at least forming a
natural group, though a commonplace in our Society, seems to be
all too rare outside our own membership.
Opinions within the Society have always widely differed, as in
the present state of our knowledge it is right that they should, as to
the explanation of these phenomena. A small section declines to
see in them the operation of any but normal and recognised causes,
and rejects both the telepathic and survivalistic hypotheses.
October 1939 Correspondence 111
Another section follows Podmore in accepting telepathy and reject-
ing survival ; this section is probably a good deal larger than the
first and can support its position by arguments which no believer
in survival can afford to despise or neglect. The main argument of
this section might perhaps be summarized as follows :
(1) There is
a great deal more evidence for telepathy than for survival. (2) The
''
antecedent improbability " of telepathy is nothing like as great as
the " antecedent improbability " of survival. (3) Where the evi-
dence can equally well be interpreted either on the hypothesis of
telepathy from the living or of communication from a discarnate
mind, preference should be given to the former.
These three propositions would, I suppose, be accepted by most
of the members of the Society who accept survival, a section which
has certainly not been without influence. It is in the apphcation of
these propositions that the survivalists would part company with
the followers of Podmore. Until the possibility of telepathy between
the living has been examined in detail, in each particular instance,
as e.g. Mr Piddington discussed it in the " Lethe Case ", arguments
of a survivalistic tendency fail to carry conviction.
By " possibility " I do not mean what is possible on some fan-
tastic exaggeration of the scope of telepathy between the living, but
what may reasonably be inferred as possible from the relevant evi-
dence, spontaneous and experimental.
Different types of evidence appeal with different degrees of
cogency to different minds, and it would be unreasonable to claim
that the method by which in our Proceedings and Journal the
problem of survival has usually been approached is the only possible
one. If, however, I may be allowed to express my own personal
opinion for what it is worth, it is that if one were to eliminate all the
work done by members of the Society, and by others who have
worked on similar hnes, in conducting prolonged investigations both
of spontaneous and of experimental telepathy, and in examining all
ostensible communications from the dead with a view to ascer-
taining how far they could reasonably be explained by telepathy
between the living, the argument for communication from the dead,
if not completely destroyed, would be most gravely impaired.
From whatever angle therefore the problems of psychical research
are regarded it would appear that more attention, rather than less,
should be paid to telepathy, and that more investigation of it, both
quantitative and qualitative, is required.
Yours, etc.,
W. H. Salter.
112 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1939
" Experiments in Psychics
"
Sir,—Mr Fred Barlow's article on my book Experiments in
Psychics in the S.P.R. Journal of July last, pj). 99-100, can hardly
be called a review ; Mr Barlow's article is that of an opposing
counsel. His adverse attitude towards Mr Hope and Mrs Deane is
clearly shown in the S.P.R. Proceedings of March 1933.
A book by a member of the S.P.R. of many years' standing, of
400 pages double crown 8vo with 650 illustrations, reporting many
years of systematic investigation, surely deserves a review of such
a character that his fellow-members might learn the main contents
of it and be influenced thereby to examine it and when the oppor-
tunity arises repeat his experiments.
The most important result of my investigation (chap, vii of the
book), namely, the discovery that the medium for psychic photo-
graphy, Mrs Deane, was also a medium for Direct Writing, is not
mentioned at all by Mr Barlow.
In my humble opinion the methods of experimentation and the
really amazing results obtained, recorded in that chapter, are of the
utmost importance to students of psychic science, and it is dis-
couraging that the attention of his fellow-members should not be
called to them. The author cannot be accused of expecting any
monetary reward for such work.
I fear that many readers of Mr Barlow's article may not appreciate
my impartiality and may regard me as one with a " desire to be-
lieve " and hence may consider my book not worth reading. Among
remarks which have that tendency is the statement that I wrote
I considered trickery " unthinkable " ; should Mr Barlow have
omitted the words I wrote connected with the word unthinkable,
viz. :
" trickery over a period of twenty-seven years without detec-
tion in the very act "? Even Mr Harry Price said as much. In
my book I devoted a page or two to the subject of trickery by
mediums for physical effects.
Again Mr Barlow writes :
" It is amazing that the author appears
to be in no way '
upset ' by all this evidence of human interven-
tion." I may indeed have been upset but my reading had taught
me that most, if not all, mediums for physical phenomena use
mundane means if not prevented from so doing.
He criticized my " claiming " it as a " remarkable " thing that
on none of 300 plates did any face appear as Extra. In the sense
in which I used the word, it is " a remarkable thing ", that is to say,
" worthy of remark ", a word used to call the reader's attention
to such unusual absence of faces with Mrs Deane.
October 1939 Correspondence 113
As regards my mentioning the possibility of apportage being a
factor in inexplicable happenings : even the great Schrenck-Notzing
deigned to suggest that. What other theory can one put forward
for marks appearing on an inside page of a packet of clean sheets
of paper and this more than once ?
Of course I do not agree with the sweeping conclusion Mr Barlow
draws from my many experiments nor that in the vast majority of
them deception would be " childishly " easy. He says " compli-
cated " experiments took place. Not many of my experiments were
" compHcated ". Were there no others? Is it a compUcated experi-
ment to have the medium hold a block or pile of plain paper between
her hands and suggest that a word or letter " thought of by me "
should appear on an inside page ?
I am afraid that Mr Barlow tended to overlook the " pros " while
concentrating on the ''
cons ".
Yours faithfully, F. W. Warrick.
Mr Barlow writes : I should be sorry if my brief remarks led
anyone to consider Mr Warrick's book not worth reading, as the
patient research work he has carried out over a long period of time
is invaluable. The exigences of space, unfortunately, render it im-
possible to enter into detailed support of my views, nor do I flatter
myself that my personal opinions will coincide with those of the
majority of people who I trust will read this book and form their
own conclusions.
REVIEWS
Apparitions and Haunted Houses : A Survey of Evidence. By Sir
Ernest Bennett. Faber. 12s. 6d. net.
This volume, handsomely produced, bearing the recoimnendation
of the Book Society and, for imprimatur, a thoughtful Foreword
by the Dean of St. Paul's, should do a good deal for the spread of a
better public understanding of the real nature of the evidence for
apparitions and haimtings. It justifies its sub-title, " A Survey of
Evidence ", not by any considered commentary on the evidential
force of the cases presented—the reputation of the S.P.R. is the
support of many narratives, extracted from our pubhcations, and
others rest upon the good standing and presumable accuracy of their
narrators—but by displaying the range of cases that exist and are
worthy of respect. The chief discrimination between them, oa
114 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1939
evidential grounds, is the proper preference shown for phenomena
observed by more than one witness.
Sir Ernest Bennett's broadcast on the subject, in the B.B.C. series,
" Enquiry into the Unknown ", is reproduced, and a number of the
new cases which he quotes are sifted from the experiences sent to him
by listeners.
€loud Chamber Investigation into Post-Mortem, Ions. (Bulletin III,
The Dr. William Bernard Johnston Foundation for Biophysical
Research, Reno, Nevada.) By R. A. Waters, Sc.D., and
William B. Johnston, M.D.
The authors have set themselves the task of trying to detect by
•experiment some entity separating itself from an organism, such as
a. mouse, at the time of death. They describe experiments made
in a Wilson cloud chamber to look for the formation, subsequent to
death, in the surrounding space, of nuclei capable of acting as centres
of condensation for water drops. They do find evidence of such
nuclei, but since nuclei are known to be formed in various ordinary
chemical actions where hfe is not concerned, it would seem, as the
authors indicate, that there is a good deal to be done before such
phenomena can be shown to have any special psychical or even
biological significance. R.
Laboratory Investigations into Psychic Phenomena. By Hebkward
Carrington. Rider & Co. 12s. 6d. net.
This is a compilation which must have necessitated a considerable
expenditure of time and money, the former testified to by the copious
and careful references, lists (including one giving the names of 103
investigators into the subject), indices, appendices, etc. ; the latter
by 34 excellent photographs obtained by the author while working
under the auspices of the American Psychical Institute, as Director.
In the introduction the desirability of studying " strange mani-
festations " by laboratory methods is stressed, and these, as is
customary, are divided into " the physical " and " the mental "
;
both are supposed to depend upon a definite mechanism,, and to
occur in accordance with definite laws within their own sphere.
The introduction is followed by a history, which occupies more
than one third of the entire volume : in this are summarised briefly
investigations of (a) alleged physical mediums and {b) alleged strange
manifestations not requiring the presence of a medium. The
remainder of the book is a description of endeavours on the part of
the author to obtain (b), for the most part without success. At the
October 1939 Reviews 115
same time it gives a sad account of well meant, but inexpert, in-
vestigations of others who have tested such devices as " The
Cylinders of Malta ", " The Dynamistograph ", Dr. Russ's Eye
Machine ", " Rutot's Triangles " and the effect of " Will Power " on
galvanometer readings.
It would seem that the main object of Mr Carrington's book is to
point out that adequate tests are necessary before one can place
reliance on the face value of psychic claims. While long descrip-
tions of abortive experiments make but sorry reading, the author's
precepts, on numerous occasions, bring joy and laughter. Let me
share with you one of his gems of pure thought (p. 184, under
" Conclusions ") :
" Any device which can, and will, under normal
working conditions, give both positive and negative results, during
the same observation, is unreliable and unfit for the study of
supernormal phenomena.
In his investigations the author has made considerable use of
simple electrical apparatus ; but he is, apparently, unfamiliar with
the elementary theory of electro-magnetic induction, which he seems
to have mixed up with electro-static induction. On page 209 he
says " It is a well-known fact that certain materials, when in close
proximity to an electrical field, will become electrified by induction.
This is the principle of the ordinary transformer with which X-ray
workers are so familiar ". He then goes on to describe an induction
coil, but he leaves out the really important point, the dependence
of the current in the secondary coil on the rate of change of the
primary current.
The author's conclusions would indeed appear to accord with
common experience if put in the following words, viz., " strange
manifestations " do not take place in laboratory experiments, unless
some very strange person is present. But why write a book about
it? C. C. L. G.
Psychic Science and Survival. By Hereward Carrington. Two
Worlds Pubhshing Co. Ltd. 2s. 6d. net.
This little volume of 90 pages is described as " An Essay in
Psychical Research "'.
It appears to be a clear and honest account
of the author's views on the subject, in the expression of which he
shows real knowledge of its literature, and presents it in a condensed,
though somewhat journahstic style. Pages 27 to 32 are auto-
biographical ; on page 31 he says " As a result of my investigations,
however, I have become quite convinced that psychical phenomena
are for the most part real—that is, they are genuinely supernormal
116 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1939
in. character—and that there is a superphysical world of some sort
in which we are all immersed, and of which we constitute a part ".
Apart from what is auto-biographical, this book does not contain
anything new. C. C. L. G.
When Nero was Dictator. Bv Geraldine Cummins. Frederick
Muller Ltd., London, 1939. 10s. 6d. net.
Our members, and more especially those who on more than one
occasion have had the advantage of hearing Miss Cummins lecture
to the Society, will welcome the appearance of another volume in
which her scripts relating to the Apostolic Age are collected. The
title of the book sufficiently indicates the period covered.
The book is in four Parts, of which the first is entitled, " St Paul's
Travels in Spain " and the second " St Peter and St Paul in Kome "
and the third " St Peter and the Great Fire of Rome ". The last
called " St Paul at the Journey's End " describes his trial and
execution and the death of Nero. It will be seen that there is no
lack of material of great dramatic interest. To what extent the
book reveals evidence of knowledge transcending Miss Cummins's
normal knowledge is one that only a scholar who had specialised in
the history of the Early Church could be expected to answer. The
ordinary layman cannot usefully pronounce an opinion as to how
far the events described in this book (leaving out of account those
which are narrated in the New Testament), are in accordance with
the results of historical research, and, to the extent to which they
are in accordance, how far the facts are likely to have been accessible
to Miss Cummins. However difficult an answer to this question may
be, from several different angles the book cannot fail to be of interest
to our members and the public. W. H. S.
E.S.P. PICTURE TEST
Mr Whately Carington urgently needs more percipients for his
experiments on Extra-Sensory Perception, of which another will
start in the middle of November. Only about five minutes' work
a night, at any convenient time, is required. About a dozen mem-
bers volunteered for the last experiment, as compared with about
70 from the Dutch S.P.R.
Will those willing to help please communicate direct with Mr
Carington at 5 Fitzwilliam Road, Cambridge.
No. 559-560—Vol. XXXI. Novembee-Deceivibee 1939
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
The Sixth
Frederic W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture
ENTITLED
" Psychical Research and Theology
"
WILL BE DELIVERED BY
The Very Rev W. R. MATTHEWS
K.C.V.O., D.D.
{Dean of St. Paul's)
AT
MANSON HOUSE
(26 PORTLAND PLACE, W. i)
ON
JVEDNESDAT, I'j January, ig40, at ^ p.m.
N.B.
—
Admission will be by Ticket only. Additional tickets can be had on
application to the Secretary, S.P.R., Tavistock Square, London, W.C. I.
There is ample air-raid shelter in the large underground vaults behind the
platform of the hall at Manson House.
H
118 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov.-Dbc. 1939
NEW MEMBER
(Elected on 28th November, 1939)
VIVANTE, Professor Leone, Cherry Cottage, Abinger Common,
Surrey.
OBITUARY
Father Thurston's Work in Psychical Research
Father Thurston joined the Society for Psychical Research in 1918,
and within a short time became a very active, valued and j)opular
member. Although, as a Jesuit Father, he could not attend seances,
and could only avail himself of the less direct method of approach to
psychic phenomena through reports furnished by others, his careful
reading of the literature of the subject, his scholarly knowledge of
apparently kindred phenomena in earlier times, and his keen critical
gifts combined to place him in the front rank of contemporary
students of psychical research. He had, indeed, what is one of the
chief requisites of a pisychical researcher, a keen eye for the evi-
dentially strong or weak points in a narrative of unusual occurrences,
and brought his great historical knowledge of, e.g., medieval instances
of stigmatisation and levitation to bear on the analysis of modern
evidence for similar phenomena. Although in the pubUc mind
psychical research is confused with spiritualism, or at any rate is
supposed to cover much the same ground, it is to a large extent con-
cerned with problems of psychology which have, for good reasons or
bad, been neglected by academic psychologists. In the experiments
which the Society conducted into this province of its subject. Father
Thurston took an active part.
He twice read papers to the Society, once in 1921, on The Pheno-
mena of Stigmatisation (published in S.P.R. Proceedings, vol. XXXII)
and the other, in 1932, on So^ne Neglected Types of Evidence in
Psychical Research, in which he maintained that some of the criti-
cisms directed against the phenomena of D. D. Home were un-
founded. He contributed several letters and articles to the Society's
Journal, and was a frequent attendant at its meetings. Father
Thurston also contributed numerous articles on Spiritualism and
Psychical Research to The Month: a series of these were published
in book-form in 1933 under the title, The Church and Spiritualism.
The Society for Psychical Research comprehends many shades of
opinion from outright Spiritualism to complete disbelief in the
supernormal in any shape or form. Not many, perhaps, of his
fellow members shared Father Thurston's own standpoint, but there
is none, however wide the difference in opinion, who will not deplore
the loss of so courteous and learned a colleague.
Nov.-Dec. 1939 Obituary 119
DAVID GOW
By the Eev. C. Drayton Thomas
It was in 1917 that I made the acquaintance of Mr Gow. I was
wishing to add knowledge of contemporary Spiritualism to what I
had learnt of Psychical Research in a seventeen years' membership
oftheS.P.R. David Gow soon proved himself a helpful friend. The
fact that he was conversant with S.P.R. methods and literature gave
me the more confidence in his judgment on matters of which I then had
little personal knowledge. He was as patient with mental hesita-
tions as he was tactful with the over credulous, yet withal humorous,
whimsical and very human. Small and frail in body, he was strongly
alert in mind. To philosophical insight and artistic taste he added
extensive acquaintance with the history of psychical investigation
and a shrewd estimate of evidence. He was eminently successful in
keeping the paper Light on a high grade of efficiency during his long
years of editorship. His wisdom was shown by what he wrote, the
class of contribution he accepted, and also by what he excluded
from the paper. With a fine sense of discrimination he realised just
what readers needed to know and how they should be shepherded
past distracting side-issues which lead nowhere. A long and intimate
association with Fleet Street had qualified him for effectively super-
vising all work connected with the weekly issue of his paper. Taking
nothing for granted and refusing to spare himself he perused each
column before it went to press. Long years of close apj)lication,
despite increasing physical weakness, overtaxed his strength and
finally forced him to a comparatively premature retirement. To so
alert a mind this was a severe trial, but he met it with philosophic
resignation. Those who had the privilege of conversations in his
office will recall with pleasure how readily he would illumine from
his store of experience and literary knowledge a wide range of topics.
Humour and the lighter touch alternated with deep thought and
discerning judgment. He was as kindly and tactful with colleagues
as with the stream of inquirers invading his office.
It was largely due to David Gow's foresight and efforts that the
London Spirituahst Association was able to obtain the freehold
premises in Queensberry Place which it now enjoys.
" No work begim on earth shall end with death " ;
one pictures
the enthusiasm with which D.G. (as his friends affectionately called
him) is now learning to share the varied activities of the Great
Beyond where sterUng qualities matured on earth find wider scope.
120 Journal of Society for PsycJdcal Research Nov.-Dec. 1939
A NEW TYPE OF PROXY CASE
Details concerning the " Aitken " episode
In our last issue (October 1939, p. 103), Mr Drayton Thomas
described two cases in which the arrival of letters was predicted,
and facts were given, at Leonard sittings, concerning communicators
and their relatives of whom at the time Mr Thomas knew nothing.
Subsequently, Mr Thomas received letters from two relatives of
deceased persons, and facts emerged wliich appeared to show con-
siderable relevance to details given at the sittings.
It is clear that this evidence is important, whether it is interpreted
as evidence of communication or of the possibilities of unconscious
telepathy between the living. Critical readers will have wished to
know, among other things, what is the nature and strength of the
evidence of identity which came to light when the communications
were investigated by Mr Thomas. With regard to the first of the
two communicators, Mr Thomas wrote (Journal, Oct. 1939, p. 104) :
" At four later Leonard sittings he gave additional evidences of
his identity, one of these being a group of connected facts unknown
to his father but common knowledge to the deceased and his sur-
viving brother."
This, it will be seen, is of the nature of a proxy case within a proxy
case, if facts unknown to the father (he having proved to be Mr
Thomas's predicted correspondent) were produced at Leonard
sittings after the predicted letter from the father had reached Mr
Thomas.
The father in question—Mr L. G. Aitken, who is a Member of
the S.P.R.—wrote spontaneously to the Journal, to corroborate Mr
Thomas's account, as follows :
" As one of the principals in the Leonard-Aitken proxy case
reported by Mr Drayton Thomas in the Journal for October, may T
corroborate and amplify it somewhat. On October 9th, 1938, I
heard Mr Drayton Thomas give an address at the Queen's Hall,
which so pleased me that I formed the intention of writing to con-
gratulate him ; but being a born procrastinator it was not till the 8th
of Nov. that I actually wrote—mentioning at the end of the letter
my own case and asking for advice. To my surprise in Mr Drayton
Thomas's reply was enclosed a copy of part of the script of a sitting
he had had with Mrs Leonard on Oct. 28th, 1938, in which he was
told to expect a letter from a man—a middle-aged man—who had
lost a son—in an accident, probably a motor-car—that the son had
been killed outright—the name Morton or a lilvc sounding one was
Nov.-Dec. 1939 A New Type of Proxy Case 121
given and the statement that this man had hved near where Mr
Drayton Thomas lived. The facts were—I am a middle-aged man
—
I had lost a son in an Air Force accident in Dec. 1937—he was killed
outright—and I had lived in the village of Norton in Hertfordshire
from about 1910-22, very near which Mr Drayton Thomas had
lived from 1876-8.
" I had never met or written to Mr Drayton Thomas at the time
of this sitting, nor had I ever had any contact of any kind with Mrs
Leonard. They were both quite unaware of my existence, but I was
aware of theirs.
" On the hypothesis of telepathy from the living, I must be sup-
posed to have sent a thought message to Mr Drayton Thomas
—
probably after hearing him speak on the 9th—when my intention
was strongest ; a message containing some facts about myself.
This message, presumably, '
stuck '
to Mr Drayton Thomas, and
on the 28th Oct was picked out and decoded by Mrs Leonard in
trance. Now Mr Thomas by his public addresses and books must
stimulate many hundreds of people to send thought messages to
him, and, presumably, these also stick but remain unknown to Mr
Drayton Thomas. Who selected this particular message for decod-
ing and why?
" Later on, Mr Drayton Thomas sent me further extracts from
records of Leonard sittings containing amongst much evidential
matter, a group of facts which I could make little of ; but which my
son, on seeing, recognised at once as a message concerning a common
friend of his and my dead son's who had been killed some months
later, and of whose existence I had never heard.
" Here there seemed to be a further intention to give a message for
someone of whose existence Mr Drayton Thomas and Mrs Leonard
were unaware.
" In this latter case—my son tells me he had deliberately asked
his dead brother to try and get a message concerning this friend
through some medium to me ; that he felt sure at the time that his
brother had got the message, and that he was not very surprised to
see it come through almost exactly as he had expected, including a
very near shot at the name, in the Leonard script.
" I think there is here evidence of a successful experiment to force
a further stretching of the universal telepathic hypothesis to the
extent that its already astonishing elasticity becomes an '
ante-
cedent improbability '.
L. G. AlTKEN."
Being invited to send evidential details of the episode here
122 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov.-Dec. 1939
described, Mr Aitken furnished the following facts and corrobora-
tion :
" In Mr Drayton Thomas's sitting of Jan. 20th, 1939, Feda says :
'
There was somebody else he was very interested in, that perhaps
you don't know ... a name that starts with the letter B, and I
think there is an R in it . . . it's not a long name—very much linked
with him ... it might be a Mr. BRICK. ... I feel this is something
you could use for building, and is a name much connected with this
boy and his interests.'
" In Mr Drayton Thomas's sittmg of Feb. 3rd, 1939, Feda says :
'
A name starting with BR—rather an important name with him . . .
somebody he was linked up with shortly before his passing . . . there
is a link between this BR . . . and this boy's passing. I also want to
know if there is anything to do with him like a little ship ... or a little
model of a ship—something he had on earth and was very fond of.
He is showing me something lilvc a toy ship—a fancy ship, not a
plain one
—'laborate, rather 'laborate—with a good deal of detail
shown in it—it seemed to be connected with his earth life—but some
time before he passed over, rather early in his earth life, but I think
it is something that his people have stiU got. . .
.'
" A name beginning with BR—like the name which Feda says
'
might be Mr BRICK '
—had been mentioned by other mediums,
but we had been unable to place it, nor was the reference to a '
model
ship '
understood ; but my son, on seeing the Leonard script,
recognised its meaning.
" He and his deceased brother had been friends at an R.A.F.
Station with a yoimg officer called BRIDGEN—whom we had not
heard of—and who had been killed about a year after my son.
" This young man, before joining the R.A.F. , had worked for a firm
which made scale models of ships for shipping companies, and he had
shown my son a photograph of one of these models which he had
made himself and which he said his people still had at home. My
son had felt sure that this matter of the model ship would be given
as a sign if they were unable to get the name through correctly."
These data were accompanied by the following letter :
" The Editor,
Journal of the Society for
Psychical Research.
" Dear Sir,
I have read my father's account of the '
Leonard-Aitken
'
proxy sittings, and I testify to its correctness.
" I was the only living member of the family who knew of
Nov.-Dec. 1939 Case 123
'
Bridgen ', and I had never had any communication with Mr
Drayton Thomas or Mrs Leonard.
" My '
thought-message '
was not directed to Mr Drayton Thomas
or to Mrs Leonard—but to my '
dead '
brother—and to me, the reply
was unmistakable.
Yours sincerely,
Lionel Aitken,
Flying-Officer, R.A.F.
Nov. Uth, 1939.
CASE : MISSING PAPERS LOCATED BY AN APPARENTLY
PARANORMAL PROCESS
By W. H. Salter
The following incident, though trivial, may be of interest, because
the explanation seems to be either clairvoyance, or telepathy from
a mind which had no conscious knowledge of the information sup-
posedly conveyed to the mind of the percipient.
My record of the incident which occurred at our house. The Crown
House, Newport, Essex, runs thus :
" 24 Oct. '38.
To-day in connection with her forthcoming paper on Tele-
pathy and Clairvoyance, H. [my wife] started looking up the
contemporary notes (1931) of some experiments in telepathy
she and I had with [friends with whom we had been staying].
They had on our return from [our friends] been put in a bureau
in the drawing room in a pigeon hole where current business
letters are kept.
H. had later, at some date she cannot recollect, removed them
to what she thought was a better place. But she had com-
pletely forgotten where this was, and spent a long time turning
out drawers, cupboards and files where she keeps S.P.R. papers,
all in the Study, looking for them in vain.
I said, " Haven't you put them in the Bible box? " This is
an old oak carved box standing on a stool in the drawing room.
Its contents were mostly, as I knew, old games and odds and
ends for amusing the children, and what made me suggest this
place I cannot think. It, and the original pigeon hole, were the
only places I suggested. At long last at about 9.30 p.m.,
having been looking for them, with a short break for a meal.
124 Journal of Society for Psycldcal Research. Nov.-Dec. 1939
since about 7, she went to the Bible box, and there under a lot
of other junk, they were.
She was all along quite certain she had not intentionally put
them there, and in this she was right. She had on removing
them from the pigeon hole, put them in a drawer of her writing-
table in the Study, in which she later put some gramophone
records. These she moved to the Bible box and the envelope
with the experiments got slipped between the records and
moved with them."
This record was initialled by my wife and myself the same evening
at 10 p.m. It was sent the following day to Mr Piddington, who
returned it with a note, signed by him, " Read by me on 26 Oct
1938 ".
A few words are necessary to make the position clearer. I had
never seen the envelope since it had been placed in the pigeon hole
of the bureau on our return from our friends' house in 1931. It is
not our custom to keep papers there permanently, but as I thought
it just possible that the envelope might have been left there by
inadvertence, I asked my wife if she had looked there : she had
looked, and found it was not there. We have a good number of files,
drawers, etc., in which we keep the large mass of S.P.R. papers we
have accumulated, but apart from the pigeon hole, the only place
I suggested was the Bible box, which we do not use to keep any kind
of papers in. I had not had occasion to look in the Bible box for
some time ;
not, to the best of my recollection, since the gramophone
records had been put there, but of this I am not sure. It was doubt-
less because she knew that it was unlikely that any papers would be
in the Bible box that my wife at first declined to follow my sugges-
tion by looking there.
A SUGGESTED ENQUIRY INTO PREDICTIONS
CONCERNING THE PRESENT WAR
After the end of a war it is not uncommon for a number of stories
to be current of prophecies made before or during the war, in which
the course of events as they in fact occurred is claimed to have been
predicted, sometimes in considerable detail. But the student who
looks for evidence that the prophecies were made in the form and at
the time alleged may often find himself baffled by the absence of
trustworthy records : for example, it has been stated that as early
as 1908 Lord Roberts predicted that England and France would be
Nov.-Dec. 1939 Correspondence 125
allies in war, tliat they would come near defeat, but would be led to
victory by Foch ; it is, however, seriously doubted whether Lord
Roberts made any such prediction, at any rate, at that time (see the
Daily Telegraph for 1-lth November 1939).^ The student may also
have reason to suspect that, if events had taken a different turn,
predictions of quite a different tenor would have achieved publicity.
Whatever else the present war produces, it will certainly bring its
own crop of predictions—some are already current—and it seems
desirable to collect these before, rather than after, the event. By
keeping a record of the misses as well as the hits, while it is still
uncertain into what group any prediction may fall, it wiU be easier
to judge whether or not the hits were lucky flukes.
But another object of perhaps greater importance may be attained.
A collection of the kind suggested may throw light uj^on the origin
and growth of rumours, a matter bearing closely on the question of
evidential value in many cases of spontaneous phenomena. During
the last war the Society conducted an enquiry into the rumoured
appearance of Angels at Mons, which was highly instructive : see
S.P.R. Journal, vol. XVII, p. 106.
If any of our Members hear of predictions as to the course of
events in the present war, will they be so good as to send particulars
to the Hon. Secretary? Information so given will be treated con-
fidentially. The particulars should state :
(1) Who is supposed to have made the prediction,
(2) Whether the correspondent heard it at first, second or nth
hand : for the purpose of this enquiry second-hand or more remote
accounts are of equal value with first-hand ones, if sufficiently
detailed.
(3) What the exact terms of the prediction were, and
(4) Whether any part of the prediction has already been fulfilled,
with details enabling this point to be checked.
CORRESPONDENCE
To the Editor of The Journal
Sir,—I have been reading Mr Harry Price's chatty Fifty Years of
Psychical Research wath much admiration for his undiminished
gusto. Naturally minute accuracy is not to be looked for in an
^ From later correspondence in the same newspaper it seems to be estab-
lished that Lord Roberts made a prediction to this general effect, though
not in so definite a form.
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov.-Dec. 1939
oeuvre de vulgarisation, peculiarly qualified though Mr Price un-
questionably is for the compilation of such a work. Still, there is one
little error I should like to put right. In p. 60 of his book Mr Price,
writing of Rudi Schneider, says, "Following my adverse report . . .
the S.P.R. decided to test him". In fact, Mr Price's adverse report
played as little part in encouraging the Council to investigate Rudi
Schneider as his previously favourable reports had discouraged them
from so doing. It has always been a rule of the Society to investi-
gate mediums only where there exists a prima facie case for the
genuineness of their phenomena. Dr Osty's report provided such a
case and no other factor played any part in the Council's decision
to investigate the alleged powers of Rudi Schneider.
Yours, etc., Theodore Besterman.
REVIEWS
The Psychic Stream, or The Source and Grovih of the Christian Faith.
By Arthur Findlay. Psychic Press, London, 1939 ; pp.
xvii+1192. 12s.6d.net.
The reviewer confronted with the latest of Mr Findlay's books on
Spiritualism and Religion may at first feel daunted for two reasons,
the bulk of the book, and the qualifications which the publishers, in
a slip sent with the review copy, demand of the reviewer. On the
first point he will soon be reassured, because it will at once become
clear to him that Mr Findlay has succeeded in covering a very wide
field in an interesting way. As to the qualifications, he is required
not to be "a priest or minister of any Christian sect" (the present
reviewer has no qualms about passing this test), " but instead . . .
one who is philosophically minded and not antagonistic to Spiritual-
ism ". " Philosophically minded " does not, I was relieved to dis-
cover, appear to imply any intimate acquaintance with meta-
physics, but a detached attitude to religious doctrine ; so the only
difiiculty that I felt faced with came from the words " not antagon-
istic to Spiritualism ". It would seem that to the author Spiritu-
alism means something more than belief in the survival of bodily
death and communication with those who have departed this life;
that it includes belief in the " etheric body ", which is somehow or
other connected with the ectoplasm of the seance-room. Spiritu-
alists who make this very dubious phenomenon the foundation of
their creed seem to me to be adding quite needlessly to the diffi-
culties of their case.
Nov.-Dec. 1939 Reviews 127
It is hard to summarise an argument developed in a volume of
1200 pages, but the following abstract may serve : all gods were
originally human beings, who after their death appeared in the
etheric body : belief in them as gods grew up when the believers
were cannibals, and thought that the gods could be placated by being
given human beings to eat : from time to time human victims
appeared in the etheric body after having been sacrificed, thereby
giving rise to the behef that the gods had rejected them as sacrifice,
and that they no longer required human sacrifice : the victims thus
became " Saviour-gods ", rescuing mankind from the horrors of the
religion which they more or less superseded : among the " Saviour-
gods " worshipped in Eastern Europe and the Near East Mr Find-
lay mentions Bel, Osiris, Dionysus, Mithras, Krishna.
Now it is to be noted that so far Mr Findlay is dealing with periods
long antecedent to the beginnings of history. We have no knowledge
what men thought in Egypt or Greece at a time when cannibalism
was still prevalent in those countries. Occasional human sacrifice
did indeed linger to a surprisingly late time even in highly civilised
countries, but we have no accurate knowledge of any period when it
was so habitual there as to determine the cause of religious opinion.
There is therefore no direct evidence for a theory which Mr Findlay
presents as if it were a matter of undisputed fact ; one can only
argue back from the evidence furnished by later and better known
periods. From such evidence it would appear that apparitions of
the dead did indeed contribute to the conception of semi-divine be-
ings, such as the heroes in the classical Greek use of the word. But
the claim of Euhemerus to have discovered in his travels a monu-
ment proving that all the gods were originally human beings, was
not taken seriously in his own time, and is generally, I thinlv, dis-
credited. If gods, whether Saviour-gods or not, have all developed
out of human beings, it is remarkable that they should as a whole
show so httle trace of previous humanity.
The second stage of Mr Findlay's argument is that mankind has
always been in touch with the etheric world through specially
endowed individuals, whom we now call mediums : that, as the
genuine medium could not always make contact with the etheric
world when he or his consulters wished, there arose a class of men
claiming to make contact, when they wished, and for that jDurpose
simulating genuine mediumistic powers : that this class became
priests, and out of jealousy persecuted the mediums, the persecu-
tion having been particularly severe among the ancient Jews, but
not unknown at the present day : wherever he could, the priest put
the medium to death. Another class of pseudo-mediums comprised
128 Journal of Society for PsycJiical Research Nov.-Dec. 1939
the magicians, and their obnoxious activities provided the priests
with a convenient excuse for putting mediums to death on the
charge of witchcraft.
To the Mosaic Law it is clear that mediums and magicians were
equally obnoxious. In the most explicit passage (Deut. xviii, 10, 11)
prohibitions are directed to some activities which are definitely
magical, and to others which are as definitely mediumistic (" necro-
mancy " e.(].) ; but other parts of the same two verses might be
taken as applying equally to magicians and mediums. The one per-
missible outlet for psychical powers would therefore be prophecy,
and that only under the limitations imposed in the latter part of the
same chapter.
It is however rather difficult to suppose as Mr Findlay does, that
the Hebrew prophets, while claiming to speak the words of God,
were in fact the mouthpieces of " etheric beings " who had once
lived and died on earth, and that this could happen for several
centuries, without their innocent mistake being grasped by them-
selves or detected by others. Why should it be assumed that, if a
person can be influenced by external psychic agency, the agency
must needs be that of some particular dead man or woman ?
But if we go outside Hebrew practice, there does not seem to be in
the ancient world much evidence for the systematic persecution
and extermination of mediums by priests. Only in a monotheistic
society would it be possible to draw a clean line between priests and
approved prophets on the one hand, and mediums and magicians
on the other : in other conditions there must have been a consider-
able merging of one group into another, as indeed, in the case of
Greece, Mr Findlay recognises. But he leaves one with the impres-
sion that the killing of mediums by priests was general and is well-
established, and his argument would have been a good deal stronger if
he had supported it by quoting instances. The only example that
occurs to me of a medium being put to death is Orpheus, and he
was killed, not by priests, but, to follow Mr Findlay's practice of
translating old words into the phraseology of modern Spiritualism,
by a female Study Circle attached to a rival medium.
In his explanation of the origin and growth of the Christian reli-
gion Mr Findlay combines the two lines of argument already de-
scribed regarding the origin of pagan Saviour-gods and the killing of
mediums by priests. This is the main part of his book, and it con-
tains much that is quite outside the scope of our Society. It may not,
however, be out of place to say that the comments of a man of great
practical experience who, without being a specialist in history or
theology, has read widely on this important subject and given much
Nov.-Dec. 1939 Reviews 129
thought to it, deserve careful consideration even if, and when, they
do not command assent.
The relations and connections between the various religions
prevalent in the Graeco-Eoman world shortly before and after the
beginning of the Christian era is of immense interest. By stressing
some parts of the evidence it is possible to support the thesis that
Christianity was fundamentally opposed to any and every variety
of contemporary Paganism : by stressing other parts one can make
out a case for the view that the significant elements in Christianity
already pre-existed in rival religions. To form a just estimate is a
delicate task in which sweeping generalisations—and of these Mr
Findlay seems to me too prolific—are of little service. If the study
is to be of value, and not merely, to use the phrase of an eminent
scholar, "the production of Christian rabbits from Pagan hats ", it
must be conducted under stricter rules than Mr Findlay employs.
Take, for example, the following passage (pp. 443, 444) :
" Let us now in imagination go back to these pre-Christian days in
Greece and Rome. Let us imagine that we are in Athens on a Sim-
day morning, the first day of the week which the people termed The
Lord's Day."
Here follow six pages describing an impressive liturgy, and then
we come on this footnote (p. 450) :
" The original Greek of the quotations from the tombstones, and the
committal remarks of the priest, will be found in Anthropological
Religion by Max Miiller. The Greek text of the chant, hymn and
prayer was discovered by Reitzenstein in a papyrus of the third
century a.d., and this will be found in the Mystery Religions and
Christianity, by Dr Angus. The sermon is made up from sayings of
Xenophon. Plato, Socrates and Cicero, and the Benediction is a
prayer used by the Roman philosopher, Simplicius."
As one of the tombstones quoted goes back to the fifth century
B.C. and Simplicius lived well on in the sixth century a.d., Mr
Findlay has allowed himself rather too much temporal Lebensraum.
After thus explaining the sources of Christianity, Mr Findlay
describes its development, emphasising the evidence that what would
now be called " psychic phenomena " played a much larger part in
its early history than in latter times.
Mr Findlay's point of view is in certain respects ultra-rationalistic,
in others very much the reverse. At many points therefore his
approach to familiar problems is fresh and helps to retain the
reader's interest throughout the volume.
W. H. S.
130 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov.-Dbc. 1939
Experiments in Telepathy. By Rene Warcollier. George Allen
& Unwin. 7s. 6d. net.
The " How " of psycMcal researcli is becoming an increasingly
insistent problem. Time was when the investigator contentedly
occupied himself with the " That ", thinking that evidence to show
that supernormal things occur could be collected in independence of
the question of hoiv they are possible. But it is turning out to be
more and more the case that people demand some explanatory prin-
ciple before they will listen to concrete evidence. The " How " is
antecedent to the " That "
;
or, at any rate, must run parallel with it.
M. WarcoUier's work is particularly welcome because it sets forth
both aspects of the subject side by side. In this volume, abbrevi-
ated by Dr Gardner Murphy from La Telejmthie and from articles
by M. Warcollier in La Revue Metapsychique, theoretical deductions
as to the mode of working of telepathy are drawn from the author's
own experiments. Since the cases quoted are given for illustrative
rather than for evidential purposes, it would be unfair to stress the
criticism that they are given with insufficient fullness to enable their
value to be assessed as a whole. The degree to which they have been
selected is not always evident ; neither has statistical control been
applied to the question of chance-coincidence. On this point, Dr
Gardner Murphy says that, although the author desired it, he " found
that the human situation of working in a group with ten or fifteen
interested persons has made a '
free '
method of choosing material
more workable ".
The author's main aim has been to obtain light on the telepathic
process by varying the conditions of experiment. He has even pre-
ferred to work with subjects who are " only slightly telepathic
"
rather than with first-class sensitives, because he maintains that
partial failures are more informative than complete successes.
Experiments with agents and percipients, used singly and in
groups, were tried in all combinations. Men were tried against
women ; and sleep, or sleep-like states against waking. The con-
clusion that the author draws is that " batteries " of agents are
ineffective, but a groujD of percipients is better than a single one. A
sleep-condition is better than waking for agents and percipients
alike ; and men make the better agents, while women make the
better percipients. He lays stress on mental " contagion ", or cross-
telepathy, which takes place between percipients who are trying to
receive the same idea. The pre-establishment of "accord " was
practised, percipients sitting in silence and darkness, and attempting
to create in themselves a " void of thought ".
Nov.-Dec. 1939 Reviews 131
One interesting result was the constant tendency for the form of
the message to be received rather than the idea ; and frequently this
form was fragmentary, like a young child's drawing, in which a head
may be drawn on one part of the paper and the eye on another.
Clearly traceable, also, is the effect of association of ideas in the
emergence of the telepathic message. Awake or asleep, the author
says, we are always dreaming, and in the " unconscious ", through
wliich the message has to find its way, scattered dream-symbols are
picked up and used in the mechanism of emergence ; and that is why
the results are so fragmentary. Sometimes association leads towards
the goal, as in a case in which the word " teeth " {dents) was selected
for transmission. The percipient wrote D : then Oeil ; ailes d'un
papillon, qui sont dentelees ; une dentelle ; dent. But sometimes it
overshoots the mark and leads away from it, as in the case of a
percipient who got correctly the object sent, a rayed star on a black
disc, but went on to add :
" The blot is growing luminous, and shines
like a lighthouse ", which he proceeded to draw.
The author appears to vacillate strangely on the question of
whether telepathy can be physically explained. We read :
" The
wave-hjrpothesis is not impossible "
;
and, again :
" the emission of
waves would explain perfectly the agent's role in simple cases ;
"
and, yet again :
" physical analogies are no more than conventional
pictures." Indeed, a curious indefiniteness in the mode of presenting
views and arguments is characteristic of the book as a whole. A
strange theory, too, that the agent, by looking at an object, can fix
upon it a " psychic charge ", is maintained by the author with a
considerable amount of enthusiasm ; but it is never subjected to
critical examination.
Many of the experiments cited were carried out over considerable
distances ;
and one series took place between Paris and New York.
These long-distance trials gave about the same order of success as
the others.
In spite of the admiralile design underlying the author's work, it
cannot be pretended that the present book is entirely satisfying.
Doubt will probably remain in the reader's mind as to whether cer-
tain of the conclusions reached are based on a sufficiency of experi-
ment ;
while many of the points raised are treated with a lack of
critical thoroughness.
A glossary of terms is appended. There is no index.
G. N. M. T.
132 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov.-Dec. 1939
Fifty Years of Psychical Research : a critical survey. By Harry
Price. Longmans. 10s. 6d. net.
Every student of psychical research has long felt the need of two
works to assist him in his labours. He wants first of all an up-to-date
edition of the Combined Index to the Journal and Proceedings of the
S.P.R. ; and secondly he needs a continuation of Podmore's History
of Modern Spiritualism, which was published in 1902. In other
words what is required is a critical survey of the history of psychical
research and spiritualism during the last forty years.
In his preface to the present volume Mr Price suggests that he has
now fulfilled this task, but it would seem from the contents of the
book now under review that few will be found to agree with him.
With a number of deletions and additions the work might perhaps be
used as a handbook or an abstract of the kind of history which could
be considered as a worthy continuation to Podmore's classic effort.
But, as it is, it is difficult at first to see for what class of reader the
present work is intended. It appears to be made up of scattered
articles, papers and notes, with little attempt to co-ordinate the
mass of material or evaluate the historical sequence of development.
One whole chapter is devoted to an account of an alleged material-
isation, said to have been witnessed by the author, for which not one
shred of corroborative evidence is offered. On the other hand some
three pages are given to the phenomena associated with the medium-
ship of Mrs Leonard ; less than four lines to Mrs Chenoweth ; whilst
I have found no allusion amongst the accounts of physical phenomena
to the Castlewitch sittings, or amongst the mental phenomena to the
Hacking case, the Chafiin Will case or the Thompson-Gifford case.
Space which could have been found for these is taken up by an
accomit of a 25 franc " medium " said to have been seen by the
author over a shop in Ostend ;
by a description of a MS alleged to
have been composed by Joanna Southcott ; and by nineteen pages
devoted to the text of a proposed Bill to regulate Psychic Practi-
tioners.
Apart from these deficiences the book contains a general summary
of many of the principal cases of interest during the last fifty years ;
and, although we may still be permitted to hope that a successor to
Podmore may one day be forthcoming, in the meantime we can
glance over the pages of Mr Price's book, which, with its excellent
index, will provide us with a convenient guide to that mass of fraud,
delusion, and maybe truth which emerges from the patient work of
so many enthusiasts during fifty years of psychical research.
E. J. D.
No, 561-562—Vol. XXXI. Januaby-Februaby 1940
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of
the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
On WEDNESDAY, 28th February, ig40, at 3 p.m.
To transact the business set out on the formal notice dated
the igth January, ig40, and already circulated.
FOLLOWED BY A PAPER ON
"AN EXPERIMENT IN LONG-DISTANCE TELE-
PATHY BETWEEN LONDON AND ATHENS"
BY
Mr C. V. C. HERBERT
N.B.
—
Members alone have the right to take part in the business of
the Annual General Meeting, but Associates may be present both
during the transaction of business and when Mr Herbert is giving his
paper. Tea will be served afterwards, to which Members and
Associates are invited.
I
134 Jmirnal of Society for Psychical Research Jan. -Feb. 1940
GENERAL MEETING
The 187tli General Meeting of the Council was held at Gordon House,
Gordon Square, London, W.C. 1, on Tuesday, 28 November 1939,
at 2.30 p.m., when Professor Henry Habl)erley Price of New College,
Oxford, gave his Presidential Address. The Address is published in
Part 160 of Proceedings.
OBITUARY
We deeply regret to record the death at her home in Cambridge on
the 13th January of Miss Alice Johnson, an Honorary Member, and
formerly the Secretary of the Society. It is intended to print later
on a record of some of her eminent services to the Society and to
Psychical Research.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR 1939
The outbreak of War has naturally caused the Council to consider
with anxious attention the future policy of the Society. If the
experience of the years following on 1914 is a guide, it is very
probable that there will be a greatly increased public interest in the
subjects which our Society investigates. It is from every point of
view important that this interest should be directed into channels
of sane and sober investigation, and that individuals whose emotions
have been aroused by the events of the war should be able to avail
themselves of the knowledge and experience which the Society has
gathered over so many years, and to obtain advice based on that
knowledge and experience. These objects are most likely to lie
attained if the Society carries on its activities, both in research,
publication, and the holding of meetings, as fully as war conditions
will permit.
While difficulties of travel will make it impossible to arrange
meetings as frequently as in peace time, the Council hope to be able
to arrange several meetings, including those open to the public by
invitation. The Journal will probably be issued every alternate
month, and Parts of Proceedings will be published whenever matter
suitable for publication is available. So far as can be foreseen, the
Society's research work will be continued on much the same lines
and scale as in recent years. Much will, of course, depend on the
general financial position. Provided the Society receives such
support from Members as the Council may reasonably expect, they
are confident that no substantial curtailment of the Society's
Jan.-Feb. 1940 Annual Report of the Council for 1939 135
activities will be necessary for the present. The CJouncil would none
the less welcome the additional income consequent upon an increase
of membership, and also donations from existing Members, as for
several years past the Society's income has not been sufficient for
its needs.
(J) Researc/i Department. The investigation of the platform
clairvoyante, Mrs Helen Hughes, mentioned in the report for 1938,
was continued, and is described in a paper in Part 158 of Proceedin/p.
Owing to the generosity of a Member of the Society, who paid for
the making of the process blocks, some of the photographs, to which
reference was made in the report for 1938, have been reproduced in
Part 158 of Proceedings, together with a short note on the technique
employed.
The series of tests of long distance telepathy between London and
Athens, which was arranged in collaboration with Dr Tanagras, was
continued throughout the spring and early summer. The tests were
interrupted at the end of June, l)y which time the weather in Greece
was too hot for the Athens group to meet at an early enough hour
to ensure a sufficient attendance of the London group ; and it was
hoped that the work might be continued after the reopening of the
Society's rooms in September. Owing to the war, this has not been
found to be practicable. The results of the tests are by no means
devoid of interest, and appear to show some signs of a paranormal
effect. The statistical analysis which is necessary to estimate the
probability of this effect being due to chance is being carried out,
and it was hoped that it would l)e ready in time for inclusion in this
report ; but owing to inx accident to one of the judges who had
kindly consented to scoie the data, the calculations will not be
completed until the new yoar.
A few tests were made with the guessing of the images on the
special Zener cards to which reference was made in the report for
1938, but no subject was found who could score a higher proportion
of successes than chance could account for. When normal con-
ditions are restored, it is hoped to examine a large number of
subjects. This work became increasingly difficult throughout the
year owing to the limited amount of time which Ijoth subjects and
assistants were able to contribute. The Council would desire to
record their indebtedness to all who took part.
A series of informal sittings with an amateur clairvoyante, the
wife of a Member of the Society, was held at the rooms. Though
nothing very striking emerged, the records are of interest in throwing
some light on the processes involved in the conventional medium-
136 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Peb. 1940
istic sitting. The thanks of the Society are due both to the lady
herself and to those Members who acted as sitters in the experiment.
Owing to the great difficulties attendant on all work which
involves a number of people being assembled together at a parti-
cular time, concentration is being made on tests with individual
subjects, and especially on tests in which the subject can function
in his own home. Such work has the additional advantage that the
precautions necessary to ensure that there shall be no normal leakage
are very much simplified. A programme of experiments in the
paranormal cognition of drawings and diagrams has been drawn up,
and a number of tests have already been made with two subjects,
with both of whom striking results have been obtained. Special
attention has been paid to the possible functions of the agent in
tests of this type. All experiments are designed so that statistical
methods of evaluation can be applied, without in any way reducing
the value of the data for the purposes of examination from the more
usual qualitative standpoint.
The design of a conveniently portable apparatus for the testing
of faculties of paranormal guessing has been carefully studied by
Mr. G. Redmayne, who has now constructed an electrically operated
machine which automatically selects for guessing one of five alter-
native figures or images, receives the subject's guess, and records
his success or failure. The testing of precognitive faculty is possible,
as by means of a simple adjustment the machine can be made to
postpone its selection until after the subject has made his guess.
Some trouble was experienced at first in designing a selector which
would produce alternatives which were truly independent of each
other, and at the same time would satisfy the needs of extreme
portability ; but this difficulty has now been overcome. It is hoped
that Mr Redmayne will shortly publish a description of his ap-
paratus.
A number of spontaneous cases of seemingly paranormal content
have been brought to the notice of the Society, and have been care-
fully investigated. A few have been of sufficient evidential value
for printing in the Journal. The records of the remainder have been
filed, and may be examined on application to the Research Officer.
(2) Other Research Work. A series of large-scale experiments on
the Paranormal Cognition of Drawings has been initiated at Cam-
bridge by Mr Whately Carington with the assistance of Professor
CD. Broad, Dr Thouless and Mr Oliver Gatty.
In four experiments, simple drawings, the subjects for which were
determined by a random method, were exposed from 7.0 p.m. to
Jan.-Feb. 1940 Annual Report of the Council for 1939 137
9.30 a.m. on each of ten successive nights, in the experimenter's
study. Percipients were asked to draw their impressions of these,
at any time within these limits and wherever they happened to be.
In a fifth experiment the experimenter and percipients were in
different rooms, strictly controlled laboratory conditions being
maintained ; in this case, ten trials were made in about an hour.
Altogether about 250 percipients took part in the experiments, some
resident in Cambridge, others in London, other parts of England,
Edinburgh, Holland and U.S.A. They produced about 2,200
drawings, which were scored against the 50 randomised originals
by an independent scorer who did not know which originals had
been used in the different experiments. When the " hits " recorded
were assembled by experiments, it was found that percipients
tended to score on the originals of the experiment in which they
were concerned significantly more often than the chance expectation.
Further experiments are in progress, and it is hoped that a full
report will be published in Proceedings in due course.
(3) Presidency. Professor Henry Habberley Price, Wykeham
Professor of Logic in the University of Oxford, consented to accept
the Councirs nomination as President for the year. His Presidential
Address, entitled " Haunting and the '
Psychic Ether '
Hypothesis :
with Some Preliminary Eeflections on the Present Condition and
Possible Future of Psychical Research ", was delivered at a General
Meeting on 28th November and appeared shortly afterwards in
Part 160 of Proceedings.
(4) Myers Memorial Lectureship. The Council appointed the
Very Rev W. R. Matthews, Dean of St. Paul's, to deliver the Myers
Memorial Lecture, due to be given in 1939. In consequence of the
outbreak of War, the date was postponed till January 1910.
(5) Changes on the Council. Dr William Brown, whose engage-
ments had of recent years prevented him from attending Council
Meetings, resigned from the Council of the Society during the year.
In October the Council co-opted Miss Newton as a member of
Coimcil.
(6) Owing to the pressure of his professional work Mr Spinney
has felt compelled, to the Council's great regret, to resign the post
of Hon. Librarian to the Society. The Council wish to place on
record their appreciation of the distinguished services he has
rendered them, and as a token of this they have elected him an Hon.
Associate of the Society.
i2
1-1 ir; CO o rH
c: ~ c£>
i-H
o w
ci 'r^ -o Ci iH
CO
..i?vg
Is g
•IS
CJ o
O O O CI r
1-1 i-H
01 Tf 3C uO !M C; u'^ I> Ci X C
T-H i-H rH r-l
r-'l--CCC0C0T}<iftrHC0(MC:O
i-fr*« tM r-i 1-1 r-i rH rH O
rJ4rH (M
*S J"* ^ .
S S S
Si <»rK
oi a •o
o o
tH
CO o
OJ
o
1= ^cr.
^ =^ CO
5- -1^ rH
<iO
(S*
^
g S § e^.Ci-e
S o 2 r
Sit;*!
5 O ii C (3
uO CO O O C
-+ C-l t-'t
<M M ^
O O C' c o c
I- •>! ^
r-^ 00
-tit-
-* !M
1^
CO CI O
I- GO
o
CO O O
"51 i
<^ ^ ^ ^
^ ; &^ ^ ?j PH
^ 5 ^ c
CO
CO
o
;^ Q ?3 (-1
s a ^ 3
= = o
-* —- CI
o -* '^)
^ Ci
^ ^ "^S CO
2 fe
=<3
O O =3
5 o o
M CO
^ 5
-J
O
user-
S O Q ^
I
I;
o to
o
CO
X i
M
1
"S o o
5: o ^
o
U< <
^5 ^ ~P Ci"
„- Q o
Sac
SCO
a3
o
1-?
I—
I
O
I—
I
ft
P3
1> o
-X) o
•M O
—i O
=^ t: .-S
» p o
C ^ 5
loo
'5
-H :d O O C>
o TC
o c
to o
tH CD
- Ah
2 a ^ o
3
(3
X
1-1
o t-- (N
o C<J o OC
i-H I>-
65 .
^
& s S «
!ii
'ii
^
^ C e c
"is
S sEt; eH Si SO
so r- ^ ^
5s
C
O
o
u
EH
o
o
S 5?
M -a ^
fc. o ^
= 5 S
Cj S O
MO"-'
3 3
^ CO iC
T-i I-
TO C: X
.-H r-i -t
Ol -t rH
- S i
s w ^
« o s
5^
op
o
H
+J " o
« ^ 5
^ 5
-s « §
S ^ =«
c t>
O 3 P
"
* m «
CO
5r
o o
t« rj -a
•3 b g
c c o
o o
Q O
>. >>
-
§ Q ^
3 «
* £ S 5?
g c <u >.
W -? £
g Q >5 '3
s? sS ^
o o o o o o
o o c: CO o
O O O O lTJ o
-* CO 00 a; o i-
^{ cfi --4^
«
£ a o
O O Hi
O O O
irj o GO
i.o o in
o 00
rt' o-f
S c
CCS
O M h-l
-CI
O
h-1 W H o
o o o o
o o o o
•* o o o
rH O O O
»n C-l ?M t-
c+i :+i ^'
o
. o
.
in C
^ 5
C!
. P.
OJ -C
>. O
Q
P
o
. cn
ai
-S C
S 2 ^
Q 0) —
g C 35
o o c
O O o
^ ^ -.o
^
. o
H« H^i
W CO
05 O rH
c
<!
CO |X
»2 'S ^
(1) ei
s? ai
~
^ -W
) C ^3
I
-c a a
! — 'H e3
; S > "2
! = ^ ? I
'
= n £ CO ,
CMC
1-1 D
CTi o o o o
(-(^qOt-iOOOOO o
l-H r-i
GOOlOiOOlOOOl—' Ol
iOOOt-IQOOOOOCO CO
t*t IN CO 00 C-1 1-H o
rH C*l ^ ^- >t
H-a -t?
£ H
£0 ^
ig o c
c3 3 O
tS C3 O ^ O
?^ * g S
c c y=
" ^
; d a .~ ^ ^
,
^ X ^
I I § 5?
H H " S'
o o o
o c
o
« T# to
W CI
P^
> c
a o
° «
o o
in in
Jan. -Feb. 1940 Annual Report of the Council for 1939 141
(7) Publication of Books Relating to the Society's Work. The
series of books by Messrs Bell & Sons, under the general heading of
Psychical Experiences ", referred to in the report of the Council
for 1938, has been continued by the publication of Evidence of
Identity, by Mr Kenneth Richmond. The Council are gratified to
hear from various quarters that this series has helped to stimulate
interest in psychical research of the kind promoted by our Society.
A like result may be expected from the publication by Messrs Faber
& Faber of Sir Ernest Bennett's Apparitions and Haunted Houses.
(8) Hon. Associates. In addition to J\Ir Spinney, the Council have
elected as an Hon. Associate Dr Eva Morton, who has been a Member
of the Society since 1933, since when she has in various ways shown
an active interest in the Society's work.
(9) Library. During the year 53 Members borrowed books, and
84 books were borrowed by the National Central Library for students.
Members also availed themselves of the privilege of borrowing books
from other Libraries through tlie Society and the National Central
Library.
(10) Obituary. Among the losses by death during 1939 must be
mentioned Professor Sigmund Freud, one of the Society's most dis-
tinguished Corresponding Members for many years, and at the date
of his death an Hon. Member of the Society ; Mr David Gow, an
Hon. Associate, and the Rev. Herbert Thurston, S.J., whose
articles on psychical research and spiritualism are very well known.
An obituary notice of Professor Freud appeared in Part 160 of
Proceedings, and of Mr Gow and Father Thurston in the Journal for
December 1939.
(11) Membership of the Society. During the year 17 new Members
and 2 Student Associates were elected. The total loss in Members
from deaths, resignations and other causes was 53 Members and
Associates, leaving a net decrease of 34 Members and Associates.
The total membership of the Society now stands at 654.
Following the precedent set by the Society in the years 1914-18,
the Council have decided to suspend from active membership during
the present war iiiembers of enemy nationality resident abroad,
with the proviso that they should be at liberty at the end of the war
to resume active membership. The position of any members of
enemy nationality resident in this country will not be affected.
While communication with enemy countries cannot be main-
tained during the War, the Council regard the Societv as occupying
142 Journal of Society for Psych ical Research Jax.-Feb. 1940
an international position and wiW do what they can, subject to the
limitations imposed by hostilities, to co-operate to the fullest extent
with psychical researchers of whatever nationality.
(12) Publications. Four Parts of Proceedin(/s were published
during the year : Part 157 in February, Part 158 in March, Part 159
in July and Part 160 in December.
The Secretary's sales to the general public amounted to £25 4s. 2d.,
and to members of the Society, £14 17s. 3cl. Returns from the
Society's agent in the United States amounted to £5 8s. 6d.
(13) Meetings. The following meetings have been held during
the year
:
25 Jan. " Recent Work carried out by the Society ", by the
Research Officer.
29 Mar. " Experiments in Automatic Writing ", by Miss Geral-
dine Cummins.
26 Apr. ' Incidents of Bygone Days ", by Count Perovsky-
Petrovo-Solovovo
.
23 May. " A Novel Proxy Case and its Implications ", by the
Rev. C. Drayton Thomas.
28 June. " A Recent Experiment with Two Automatists ", by
Mr W. H. Salter.
^28 Nov. Presidential Address, hy Professor Henry Habberley
Price.
A CASE FOR SURVIVAL?
The following case has been contributed, under the above title, by
Mr G. Zorab, a new member of the Society, whose report was sent
to the Hon. Secretary with this letter :
To the Secretary of the Society for
Psychical Research.
Verdistraat 32,
The Hague.
7 December 1939.
Dear Sir,
Enclosed I make bold to hand you some information about
a rather interesting case which came within my own observation.
From beginning to end the case was investigated by Mr de Graaf
^ General Meeting. , : .
Jan. -Feb. 1940 A Case for Survival ? 143
and myself, while all documents, newspapers, etc., relating to the
case are in my possession and can be consulted.
I am, dear Sir,
Yours truly,
G. ZORAB.
The case is described and discussed by Mr Zorab in the following
pages.
A group of investigators, of which I am a member, has been experi-
menting at regular intervals this year with a medium for trance
phenomena. The medium, a Mrs. Hilgersom-Kleiweg, is a married wo-
man of about thirty-five years of age and of a not very high educational
level living at the Hague. She is not a professional medium, but
allows us to experiment with her in order to further Psychical Research
.
Although of late years the medium has had, as she herself con-
firms, fairly frequent clairvoyant visions, premonitions and such
phenomena as the seeing of " spirits ", she never went into a trance
before the beginning of this year. In April 1939, however, during
a spiritualistic seance open to the general public, she all of a sudden
fell into a state which to all appearances looked like a genuine trance.
After this episode we invited her to cooperate as a medium in our
researches, to which proposal she kindly consented.
The trance condition with this medium is a very quiet one and
may come on very suddenly, so that often enough the medium may
be off in the middle of a sentence or while relating some joke or story.
Up to the present the medium only speaks, and does not produce
writing, during her trance.
On Saturday evening, 6 May 1939, an entity manifested itself
through the medium during a seance and said that its name was
Klaas Kraaijendonk and that its address had been Willem, Tomberg-
straat 2 at Gouda. Gouda is a well-known Dutch town situated about
18 miles to the east of The Hague.
The notes taken down during the sitting are given in full here
below. We would like to point out that the questions put to the
communicator are not mentioned in the report, but the answers only
were written down. As this sitting was our first experience with
the medium in question and we did not expect anything of import-
ance to crop up, we did not trouble ourselves to have very full notes
made, a neglect we now sincerely regret.
Extract from Refort of the Sitting of 6 Maij 1939
" Mother—Gouda—Willem Tombergstraat 2. Please tell Mother
not to grieve so much for me—the son—KJ.aas—My birthday must
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1940
be near at hand. Mother must keep an eye on Annie and part with
all my belongings, also with my Sunday suit. I was already 19 years
old.—I have also a brother, who slept with me.—Terrible, I was gone
suddenly. Antoon may have my watch—Father my purse, inside
which was not much money. Go to Mother and say that I am
making myself uneasy and that Mother must not think. My name
is Kraaijendonk, and my sister's name is Annie, but she should not
dance so much, she should not care so nnich for worldly things.
They don't believe in a God, but there is one ;
very high, ve-ery
high! But Father and Mother. Antoon and Annie should not think
only of worldly things. Don't let them also think of me. Please
tell them that there is a God. Go to Mother, she needs so much
support."
On the 15th of May the post office of Gouda informed us that
the address for which we had applied was indeed correct, but that
at the Willem Tombergstraat n° 2 did not live a family Kraaijenc^ow^
but Kraaijen6n>i^-.
Two days later Mr de Graaf and I went to Gouda and made
inquiries at the town hall about the afore-mentioned Klaas K. As
is the case in many other countries on the continent, everybody in
Holland is officially registered as regards all sorts of family details,
birth, address, etc., and one's family status can readily be ascer-
tained if needed. Here we received a document, signed by the
Registrar, saying that in the municipality of Gouda had been regis-
tered Klaas Kraaijmhrink, born 12 Jidy 1914, who had died owing
to an accident on the 25th of March 1939. He had lived at the
Willem Tombergstraat n" 2, where his father Dirk Kraaijenbrinh was
still domiciled.
At the same time we were informed that the family K. consisted
at that moment of husband and wife K. and their two children
Johanna (born 1922) and Antoon (born 1926).
We also incjuired at the town hall whether the medium or her
husband had ever lived in Gouda, and were answered that up till
the year 1922 nobody of the names mentioned had been registered
in the town.
Thereupon we bought a copy of the Goiidsche Courant—the most
important local newspaper—of Monday, 27 March 1939, and in this
paper we read the following report. As a detailed knowledge of
what has been published in the papers, etc., is absolutely necessary
in order to allow a plausible explanation to be put forward for the
phenomena observed, we will give here a complete translation of the
report concerning the accident.
Jan.-Feb. 1940. A Case for Survival? 145
Chauffeur run o\er and killed
Tripped behixd backing motor-car
On Saturday afternoon a sad accident occured at De Nieuwe
Vaart ", owing to wMcli a young man lost his life.
About a quarter past one a motor-lorry heavily laden with
sacks, belonging to the firm of N. V. W. Koemans & Zoon, was
being backed from the main road towards the entrance of the
works where the sacks are manufactured. The lorry was coming
from Rotterdam. Next to the chauffeur in the cab of the lorry
was sitting 2i-year-old N. Kraajenbrink, of Willem Tomherg-
straat, who was serving the firm as a chaulTeur. The young man
had got out and was walking behind the car as it was backed
down the entrance-way, in order to direct the driver along the
narrow entrance.
Just in front of the factory he tripped and fell under the
lorry coming immediately behind him. One of the hind-wheels
went over his head. The man was killed on the spot.
The victim was unmarried. His parents lose in him their ordy
child. The mortal remains have been transported by the ambu-
lance of the Medical Service to the Van Iterson hospital. The
police investigated the case under the direction of police-
inspector C. Hess. Of course the car-driver cannot be blamed.
He had not noticed anything about the accident.
^
After having ascertained the above we went to the house of the
family Kraaijenbrink, where Ave were received by the father, Mr K.
We started our interview by asking Mr K. whether he knew or
had ever heard of a Mrs Hilgersom-Kleiweg or of a ]Mr Hilgersom
li\dng at the Hague, i.e. the medimii and her husband, but he at
once answered in the negative. This same fact was confirmed by
his wife a few moments later. Husband and wife also denied having
ever heard of the names of the other members of the group of investi-
gators in whose circle the manifestation had taken place.
It was only after having been satisfied on this point that we began
explaining to the parents the object of our visit, which was at first
a by no means easy procedure, as they knew next to nothing about
psychical research or spiritualism. Mr K., however, though an
ordinary workman at the railway without much education, possesses
quite a lot of common sense.
We read to them the seance report as printed above, which deeply
moved them and gave us the impression that several items struck
^ The italics are mine. (G. Z.)
146 Jcnmial of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1940
them jointly as giving an indication that their deceased son was in
some way concerned in producing them. The following points were
confirmed by them as being correct and in keeping with the facts :
1. That their youngest son was indeed named Antoon, and that
their daughter, although baptised and registered as Johanna, was
always called Annie in the bosom of the family.
2. That they of course were very much upset by the very sad
accident, and that the mother was still worrying her heart out about
what had happened.
3. That the facts related during the seance by the entity pur-
porting to be the deceased Klaas K., about the clothes, belongings,
etc., of their son, were indeed as stated in the report.
4. That the statement about the younger son sleeping together
in one bed with his elder brother—though there was a difference in
age between the two of about twelve years—was in every way correct.
After the accident the young boy had been so upset that he refused
to sleep any longer in that same bed alone.
The parents, however, informed us that what was said in the last
part of the report about their religious beliefs and outlook in life
and those of their living children was not altogether in accordance
with the real facts. But at the same time they gave us to under-
stand that the question of dancing in connection with their daughter
Annie had been raised of late, but that the facts were in no way
such as indicated by the communicator on the 6th of May.
In order to be able to ascertain whether the medium in question
could have got hold of the facts produced in the sitting of the date
mentioned above by hearsay, through mutual friends of the two
families, we requested Mr K. to tell us as exactly as possible what
friends and acquaintances he and his wife had in The Hague.
The only acquaintance he could recall living at The Hague or its
suburbs was a certain Mr St., with whose address Mr K. supplied us.
Of course we paid this gentleman a visit as soon as possible after
our investigations at Gouda, and here too we learned that he had
never known or heard of the married couple Hilgersom-Kleiweg. At
the same time it became clear that the acquaintance between Mr St.
and the family K. at Gouda was but a very slight one.
Though there was no doubt about the fact that the report pub-
lished about the accident in the Goudsche Courant of the 27th of
March 1939, this being the most important local paper with the
largest circulation in that neighbourhood, was the most compre-
hensive and gave most details, so that we felt sure that any other
account of this accident in any other newspaper, which the medium
Jan. -Feb. 1940 A Case for Survival ? 147
might have read, would not contain more particulars about the sad
event or its victim than those already related in the Gouda paper,
we still took the trouble to look up some newspapers circulating in
The Hague, among which was the Nieuivshron, the paper regularly
read by the family of the medium and by herself. Both the
Haagsche Couraiit and the Nieuivshron gave very short summaries
in a few lines about this occurrence, while the Nieuwsbron only men-
tioned the victim of the accident with the wrong initials of N. A'.,
instead of giving the full Gouda reading of N. Kraaijenbrink, which,
as we know, was also incorrect, but should have been Klaas K.
Obituary notices did not appear in the papers, so that the mediuni
could not have got hold of the names of the brother and sister, etc.,
of the deceased Klaas K. through such notices.
It goes without saying that not a word was said about all these
investigations and the results to the medium or her husband. Only
after all the information had been collected and the whole corre-
spondence carried out did we inform the medium of some of the
results obtained. The communicator Klaas K. only made one
appearance, and, even after the medium had become acquainted
with some of the facts, never came forward again.
All documents and papers relating to the case here described are
open to inspection for those who would like to have a look at
them.
Possible explanations.
Before proceeding to paranormal explanations of the phenomena
discussed here, let us first try and see whether a normal explanation
can be found to fit the facts.
Shameless deceit by the tnedium. or one or more of the jwrsons forming
the group of investigators.
Although such a deceit is not impossible, it may in this case be
excluded, as, firstly, the integrity of everybody concerned is above
suspicion (we know each other weU), and, secondly, as the/om. and
details of the communication show several little mistakes, which the
medium, in case she had intended to deceive us all by making up a
brilliant " test-case " beforehand, would in all probability not have
made. At the same time, she being a simple-minded woman and
knowing nothing about psychical research, it is, in my opinion,^
psychologically impossible for this medium to have thought out and
staged such a subtle and cunning deceit.
x^s far as our investigations in this direction could be extended,
no direct or indirect channel could be discovered through which the
medium could have received the necessary information and details-
148 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jax.-Feb. 1940
produced in the seance communication, either by hearsay or by
written account.
In our possession are signed declarations, not only of all members
of the group of investigators, but also of Mr Kraaijenlirink of Gouda,
saying that none of the persons concerned in this case knew or had
ever heard of one another.
Cryptomnesia, or unconscious memory.
It is a well-known fact that in trance or such-like condition, which
generally is accompanied by a lowering of the threshold of conscious-
ness, a great many forgotten memories of what has once been read,
•experienced, heard, etc., may become accessible and are then often
produced by mediums clothed in a spiritualistic garb. When I heard
at the town hall at Gouda that Klaas K. had died owing to a very
sad accident and that an account could probably be found in the
Gouda newspaper, the idea was at once forced upon me that in this
case, as in so many others, cryptomnesia would in all probability
provide a more than ample explanation. This, however, has been
disproved by the facts.
Cryptomnesia is in very many cases certainly able to explain
information imparted by mediums, if this can be traced to what
the medium in question has read, heard, experienced, etc., at an
earlier date, but completely forgotten at the time of reproduction.
But cryptomnesia cannot explain the production of particulars and
details which in the original source to which the information should
presumably be traced is incorrect or defective, while the mediumistic
utterances are in these particulars correct and give facts not to be
guessed or reasonably inferred.
In the case at hand we have had the luck to come up against an
instance in which it was found that the newspaper report itself ex-
cludes the possibility of using cryptomnesia as a fitting explanation
of the phenomena observed. This newspaper report contains several
incorrect points as to family conditions, name, address, etc., which,
if the medium had really borrowed from this source, should also
have been reproduced incorrectly and not, as may be seen in this
case, correctly, l^y the communicator purporting to be the deceased
Xlaas Kraaijenbrink himself, and which he, alive, would have known
"very well.
The principal mistakes in the report of the Gouda Gourant, com-
pared with the correct statements by the communicator, are the
following : N. Kraaijenbrink instead of Klaas Kraaijenbrink ; his
parents lose in him their only child, while the communicator without
.a moment's hesitation names his brother Antoon and his sister
Jan.-Feb. 1940 A Case for Survival ? 149
Annie : the number of Kraaijenbrink's house (number 2), not men-
tioned in the Cxouda report, was also given at once.
'
Once conscious deceit and cryptomnesia have been excluded as
normal explanations, we have the right to pass on to 'paranormal
explanations.
Paragnosis : Extra-sensory Percept imi or telepathy hetiveen the living.
Animistic explanations.
I quite agree with Mr Salter when he says in his letter to the
Journal (1939, p. Ill) that " when the evidence can equally well Ije
interpreted either on the hypothesis of telepathy from the living or
of communication from a discarnate mind, preference should be given
to the former ". In accordance with this thesis we shall start here
by giving every precedence to animistic theories in order to try to
explain the phenomena described here. The great difficulty, how-
ever, is that up till now we have but a very vague idea how telepathy,
or, perhaps better, paragnosis, works and how and where its possi-
bilities are bounded. The marking off of these boundaries is at
present still dependent on personal opinion, and I therefore beg that
my arguments may be considered from this point of view.
Personally I am of opinion that paragnosis with its two char-
acteristic features, telepathy and clairvoyance, cannot give an
adequate explanation for this case, and this simply because there
was, before or during the seance, nothing whatsoever—at least as
far as we were able to discover—to evoke the paragnostic powers
of the medium or to guide them in a certain direction. Experience
has taught us that in order to bring about some paragnostic con-
nection or phenomenon there must be something to stimulate the
coming into action and the guiding of the paranormal capacities of
the medium, psychic, etc. (the so-called " influences " of Mrs Piper ;
some psychometric object : a person or thing, who or which can be
used as a stepping-stone to reach the mind of another person from
whom the information can be obtained ; a name, etc.) But in this
case no such an evoking and directing link or traite (T union can be
traced. During the sitting we are discussing nobody was present
who knew anything about this Klaas Kraaijenbrink or had friends
or acquaintances who knew the deceased young man, and whom the
medium could have used as a stepping-stone to come into contact
with the mind of, say, the father or mother of Klaas K. and so get
hold of the particulars communicated by the soi-disant Klaas
Kraaijenbrink.
Keeping all this in view, we have to admit that an animistic para-
gnostic explanation does not fit the facts, as we cannot understand
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan. -Feb. 1940
how the medium came into contact telepathically with a mind to
which nothing whatsoever directed her. For why was the medium
guided in the direction of some mind in order to enable her to obtain
information of this Klaas K., unknown to all concerned in the sitting?
Referring once again to Mr Salter's letter [Journal, 1939, p. Ill),
I am also in complete agreement with him when he says that we
may not allow ourselves " some fantastic exaggeration of the scope
of telepathy between the living, but only what may reasonably be
inferred as possible from the relevant evidence, spontaneous and
experimental ".
Spontaneous and experimental evidence in mediumistic and para-
normal phenomena has taught us that as long as a link, however
subtle, can be traced between the medium and a particular living
mind from which the particulars communicated may be derived, or
when something is present which may evoke and direct the para-
gnostic powers of the medium—though these conclusions mean
stretching the evidence to an impermissible extent—there is always
the possibihty that the phenomena observed may be animistic in
nature. But if no such link can be indicated, the possibility—at
least in my opinion—increases that a particular manifestation, which
also shows several other personal characteristics, is due to the in-
fluence of the discarnate mind purporting to be present.
If we bear the above in mind I think it can fairly be said that on
the whole a spiritualistic explanation better fits the facts than a
100% animistic hypothesis.
Spiritualistic explanation.
Taking everything into consideration, I think that the greater part
of the items communicated are most easily explained by ascribing
them to an influence practised on the medium in some way or other
by the discarnate mind of Klaas K. Reviewing the number of suc-
cessful hits to be observed in this communication, we find that these
are far greater than those to be classified as doubtful or wrong.
Very significant in this connection is, in my opinion, the little
sentence :
" I have also a brother, who slept with me." This shows
that an association of ideas, typical for Klaas K., was tapj^ed when
the communicator said—without any urging—that he had a little
brother and they slept together. For Klaas K. the association
brother and sleeping together was a highly characteristic and very
personal part of his mind-constellation during his life ;
and indeed
it was a fact that these two, though there existed a great difference
in age between the two brothers, had shared the same bed for several
years. Thinking of his little brother would very probably have
Ja>\-Feb. 1940 A Case for Survival ? 151
brought up at the very same time the association of sharing the
same bed, an association so strong and personal with this Klaas K.
that even after death it was produced when he was thinking of his
brother : with the result that automatically the thought was followed
up by " who slept with me ". I am therefore of the opinion that
this association of ideas, simple enough in itself, may be claimed as
highly characteristic of the personality of Klaas K. and as identifying
the communicator as really being Klaas K. That is to say, that in
some way or other the discarnate mind of Klaas K. was behind and
directing the utterances of the medium.
Of course we should not pick out this one item and then claim
that the communicator has proved his identity by this very fact.
No, we should only see it as a part which logically and reasonably
fits in the framework of the whole personality as brought forward
during the manifestation. And if we consider all the items in this
way, we become aware that a great many successful hits were made,
but that the wrong and doubtful ones are but few.
Not only did the communicator state correctly his address and
the names of his brother and sister, but some information was also
supijlied which, though not to be classified as excellent, gave some
characteristic particulars in accordance with the personality of
Klaas K.
Thus, for example, the saying :
" My birthday must be near at
hand."' (The seance took place on the 6th of May and Klaas 's
birthday would have fallen on the following 12th of July.)
Answering a question as to his age the communicator said : '"I
was already nineteen years old." (Klaas was twenty-four years old
when the accident occurred ; a fact which was also stated in the
newspaper report.) In this connection I would like to point out
that he was also asked—he could not remember his correct age at
once—whether he had already served in the army (in Holland we
have conscription), but we were answered no, Klaas had not served
in the army. (This has not been mentioned in the record of the
sitting, but both Mr de Graaf and myself remember the question
put to the entity purporting to be Klaas K., and the negative
answer.) At the town hall at Gouda we also made inquiries about
this matter and were informed that Klaas K. had not been called
up for military service.
Also the cause of his death was aptly described by the saying :
" Terrible, I was gone suddenly." The official medical report
ascribes death to fracture of the base of the cranium.
As only partly correct we may classify the wrong ending of the
name : Kraaijent^owA; instead of Kraaijen6fm^.
152 Journcd of Society for Psychical Research Jais^-Feb. 1940
More or less wrong, at least if we may believe the parents, is the
last part of the communication, i.e. the remarks about the religious
beliefs and ethical ideas of his family. The parents confirmed, how-
ever, that there existed a connection between dancing and the sister
Annie, though not in the way indicated. Of course we could not
very well press this point and delicacy forbade asking too many
questions about this matter.
As the point about dancing in connection with Annie was only
brought forward after the death of Klaas K., it remains possible that
the entity who communicated during the sitting was able to make
observations after the death of Klaas K. The entity's remarks about
its clothes and other belongings may also point in the same direction.
Why the last part of this communication shows more mistakes
than the first part is perhaps not so very easily exjolained. It is
possible that the medium, on whom the communicator was perhaps
loosening his hold, getting impressed by the ideas dancing and Annie,
started to embroider these items on her own behalf and produced
in this way the wrong statement at the end of the communication.
It is not impossible that in this case too there occurred something
of the kind observed by Fr. van Eeden during the communication
of the Dutch entity Sam through the medium Mrs Thompson (Proc.
S.P.R., vol 17, pp. 110-111).
Whichever explanation one would prefer to accept for this case,
I think that there can be no doubt that the case is interesting enough
to be stated as fully as possible.
G. ZORAB.
IMAGES OF THE SELF
In his Presidential Address, Professor Price alludes to the difiiculty
of supposing an image, perceived as " the ghost of " a given person,
to have originated in the mind of that person, and asks (Proc.
Vol. XLV, p. 330) :
" Is it not most uncommon to form an image
of one's own body—especially an accurate one? The puzzle is
increased by the fact that the image would have to represent the
visible appearance of one's own body as seen from without."
A member of the Society, Baroness de Kallucs, has sent to the
Journal an example of such image-formation, occurring to herself
in a half-awake state, and notes that she often experiences the usual
type of hypnagogic dream-picture, " nearly always of imaginary
places, quite distinct and in very bright colours ". " It is very
unusual ", she says of these pictures, for me to see people." Her
Jan.-Feb. 1940 Images of the Self 153
experience of a self-image differed from her usual hjrpnagogic pic-
tures, which are small
—" as if seen through the wrong end of race-
glasses
"
—and " seem to be under my eyelids ", as will be noticed
in the following note of the experience and its circumstances :
" It was in the afternoon, when I had been sitting trying to con-
centrate my mind on a certain subject. It [the image] appeared to
be life size, standing in front of me and smiling at me as though it
saw me. It did not move. It was a composite picture, as I
noticed it was wearing the same green dress which I actually had
on, while at the same time it looked very much younger, and had
its hair done in an old-fashioned way with a fringe.
" I was not asleep, but in that half-way state which generally
ends in sleep. On this occasion I was so much interested in this
curious apparition that I woke up completely."
This is an excellent example to show that a self-image can in fact
be formed and externalised as an object of perception for the person
forming the image. Other members may perhaps be able to furnish
some answer to the president's question whether such experiences
are very uncommon. Probably the least uncommon experience of
the kind is to see a clear image of the self as a participant in the
action of an ordinary dream. It woidd be of interest if members
would send notes of any self-images, occurring in dreams or other-
mse, which have occurred in their own experience or that of their
friends.
-
REVIEWS
'Symposium on ESP methods at the meeting of the Southern Society
for Philosophy and Psychology', The Journal of Parapsychology,
III, 1, June 1939, Duke University Press, Durham, N.C
pp. 85-115.
The methods discussed in this symposium are largely refinements
in the mathematical treatment of ESP data, with an interesting
article by Dr J. G. Pratt on an improved experimental method.
A mathematical question which has recently been raised in con-
nection with experiments on clairvoyance and telepathy is how far a
positive result might be produced by stopping a series of trials at a
favourable point. In this symposium, Dr V. W. Lemmon suggests
that if a subject is making purely chance guesses and that if we stop
his series every day at a point when the cumulative average is above
chance, every day will show a positive result although every guess
154 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1940
lias been recorded. This is an argument which might take in the
man in the street, but its fallacy should have been obvious to an
experimental psychologist. If the series is merely a chance one,
stopping each day at favoural)le points will be no different in effect
from making all the observations in one long series, and then drawing
a vertical line to divide them off in sections, each of which has a
positive total. Obviously no such process could alter the final total.
The fallacy in this criticism was, of course, pointed out liy other
members of the symposium.
If there is a fallacious effect of optional stopping, there is also a
real one, and this was dealt with by Dr T. N. E. Greville and Dr J. A.
Greenwood. In a random series one could very generally get a
positive deviation by selecting, not the stopping point of each day's
work, but the stopping point of the whole series at a place where the
deviation happened to have become satisfactorily large. Such a
deviation might even appear significant if tested by a method which
did not take into account the method of selection of the end-point
of the series. This source of error may be avoided by any method of
selecting the end-point which does not favour a positive deviation
(e.g. by fixing in advance the length of the series) or by making a
correction in the critical ratio accepted as significant. Apparently
the maxinmm value but not the exact value has been determined
for tliis correction.
Dr J. G. Pratt's method of testing ESP is one in which the pack is
handled by the experimenter behind a screen. The pack is dis-
tributed into five heaps corresponding to the five symbols of the
Zener pack. Which heap belongs to which symbol is indicated to the
subject by guide cards hung above the heaps on his side of the
screen in an order not known to the experimenter. This seems
satisfactorily to rule out both the possibility that the subject may ])e
guided by sensory cues and also the possibility that the experi-
menter's bias may lead him to deal cards into the right packs.
Speed of working is an important consideration in a technique of
ESP experimentation, not only because it is desirable to get as many
results as possible for a satisfactory statistical demonstration, but
also because it is not impossible that a rapid rate of working may
favour the appearance of the phenomena. In this respect too, this
method of experimenting appears to be satisfactory. Pratt reports
an average rate of about fifteen seconds for the run of twenty-five
cards.
Egbert H. Thouless.
J AN. -Feb. 1940 Reviews 155
My Life as a Search for the Meaning of MediumsJiip. By Eileen
J. Garrett. Oquaga Press, New York, 1939.
This is the second book of late years in which an intelligent woman
has written an analytical study, on autobiographical lines, of her
psychic perceptions and experiences. (Cf. Man's Latent Powers, by
Phoebe Payne, reviewed in the Journal, Vol. XXX, p. 205.) Both
had the fortune or misfortune of being born with a considerable
degree of what is now respectably called extra-sensory perception,
and it is interesting to find how very similar, in certain ways, were
their experiences, living as they did among ordinary adults who
knew nothing of their special fields of perception. The result was
that the writers were in each case driven into a bewildered isolation
because those around seemed so extraordinarily clumsy, ignoring
what to these children were obvious facts. Little did either realise,
until they were growing up, that others did not see the world as they
did. And even then the realisation came as a shock, on the one hand,
and an explanation, on the other, of why people seemed so tactless
and destructive among the subtleties of the psychic life. There is
also a corollary lesson to parents in these books showing how an open
mind would save much suffering and damage to a child who appears
unduly imaginative.
This book is not by any means a scientific one in the narrow sense :
no proofs are offered. That is an aspect of research which can, how-
ever, well be left to the mechanised type of psychic researcher, who
has in the past done much reliable work, if only by elimination, in
establishing the occurrence of parapsychological phenomena.
Nowadays, however, when all but the " closed " mind accepts these
as facts, this book offers something of greater interest, which is a
record of what is obviously real experience. The writing is simple,
almost bald. And in spite of an aggravating tendency to italicise
words, it conveys a quality of insight and self-criticism which makes
it worth studying. Miss Phoebe Payne, the writer of the other book
mentioned, comments as follows :
" Mrs Garrett's book is to me a simple straightforward exposition
of experience as lived by the natural-born psychic. We are all
equipped with a psychic mechanism and have embryonic psychic
capacity, but there are few people who are self-aware, with a sense of
direction in their psychic life. Mrs Garrett is one who has been
psychically aware and vividly alert from earliest childhood, and her
descriptions from then on to maturity are essentially honest and
describe the dual quality of daily life as I have always known it."
One may question some of Mrs Garrett's conclusions about the
natuxe and mechanism of psychic perception. But, since science has
156 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1940
not yet turned from proving and re-proving what has akeady been
often proved, to studying the physics of the psychic worlds or the
psychology of the percipient of them, one cannot, either, say that
she is wrong in her views. We are, moreover, coming to realise that
there is real value when a person describes experiences, whether
objective or subjective, psychic or material, which are live and
dynamic to that person. It is here that the interest of this book is
to be found. Would it be too much to suggest that we should learn
more about psychic research from a deeper study of personal experi-
ences such as these, than in dissecting (and therefore killing) sporadic
phenomena occurring here and there?
Laurence J. Bendit.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the CoimcU. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only ". The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 563-564.—Vol. XXXI. March-Apetl 1940
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meetino^ of the Society
o
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
ON
WEDNESDAY, 24 April, 1940, at 5.30 p.m.
WTIEN A PAPER ON
"WHY I DO BELIEVE IN SURVIVAL"
A REPLY TO PROFESSOR DODDS
WILL BE READ BY
Mr B. ABDY COLLINS
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members and
Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door. Tea will be
served from 4.45 p.m., to zvhich Members and Associates are i?ivited.
K
158 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mauch-April 1940
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 377th Meeting of the Council Avas held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 21 February 1940, at 3 p.m.,
Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, and later The Hon. Mrs Alfred
Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There were also present Miss
Ina Jephson, Sir Lawrence Jones. Bart., Miss I Newton and Admiral
the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N. ; also Mr Kenneth Richmond, Editor
of the Journal, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer, and Miss E. M.
Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
The 378th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 28 February 1940, immediately
after the Annual General Meeting, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the
Chair. There were also present : Miss I. Jephson, the Hon. Mrs
Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E.. Miss I. Newton, Mr W. H. Salter,
Mrs ^N. H. Salter and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N. ; also
Mr Kenneth Richmond, Editor of the Journal, and Miss E. M.
Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
Professor Henry Habberley Price, W'ykeham Professor of Logic
in the University of Oxford, was re-elected President for the year
1940-1941.
Mr W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Secretary, Admiral the Hon.
A. C. Strutt Hon. Treasurer, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh Deputy Hon.
Treasmer, and Mrs W. H. Salter Hon. Editor of Proceedings.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Puhlication, for the period of the war :
The President, Professor C. D. Broad, Mr J. G. Piddington and the
Hon. Editor of Proceedings.
House and Finance Committee : Miss Ina Jephson, Mr G. W.
Laml^ert, Mr ^^L H. Salter, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh and Admiral the
Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Library Committee : Professor E. R. Dodds, Sir Lawrence Jones,
Bart., Miss I. Newton and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Corresponding Members and Hon. Associates were elected for the
year 1940-41 as follows :
Corresponding Members : Professor Henri Bergson, President
Nicholas M. Butler, Dr Max Dessoir, Professor Pierre Janet, Dr
C. G. Jung, Count Carl von Klinckowstroem, M. Maurice Maeter-
linck, Professor T. K. Oesterreich, Dr R. Tischner, Mr Carl Vett and
Dr Elwood Worcester.
Maech-Apeil 1940 Anniuil General Meeting 159
Honorary Associates : Miss H. A. Dallas, Mr J. Arthur Hill,
Professor R. F. A. Hoernle, the Rev. W. S. Irving, Dr Eva Morton,
Professor J. H. Muirhead, Mr Kenneth Richmond, Professor C. M.
Sage, Mr H. Spinney, Dr A. Tanagras, Dr W. H. Tenhaeff,
Professor R. H. Thouless and Dr Th. Wereide.
Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell was co-opted a Member of Council.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was held
at 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 28 Feb-
ruary 1940, at 3 p.m.. Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., in the Chair.
The following Members were present : Mrs B. W. A. Dickson,
Mr G. W. Fisk, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Mrs F. Hey^vood, Miss S.
Jephson, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Miss I. Newton,
Mr I. B. Nicholl, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mrs Sitwell,
Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, Mrs Gale Thomas and Mrs C. Wool-
lard ; also Miss M. Candler (Associate) and Mr Kenneth Richmond
(Hon. Associate).
The Hon. Secretary read the Notice convening the Meeting.
The Hon. Treasurer, in presenting the accounts said that there
was little to comment on. The Society was £145 down on the year,
indicating that we had great difficulty in the endeavour to keep
within our income. Unfortunately we had dropped our membership
by 34. This loss was more due to lack of new Members than resigna-
tion of old ones. The coming year would necessarily be an anxious
time financially.
The Hon. Secretary said it was a matter of some anxiety that our
membership was declining, but considering that for the last ten
years the country has been moving through a series of financial
crises, he thought the Society had done well to keep the membership
as high as it was.
Mr Salter moved the adoption of the Balance Sheet and the
Annual Report. This resolution was seconded by the Hon. Mrs
Alfred Lyttelton, and carried unanimously.
The Chairman announced that there were no candidates for
election to membership of the Council, other than the six members
who retired by rotation and sought re-election. The following six
members were accordingly unanimously elected : Lord Charles
Hope, Mr G. W. Lambert, Dr T. W. Mitchell, Mr W. H. Salter,
Mrs W. H. Salter and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, R.N.
Messrs Miall, Savage, Avery & Co. were re-elected Auditors for
the forthcoming year.
K2
160 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Maech-Apeil 1940
The Hon. Treasurer has pleasure in acknowledging the following
contributions to the Society's funds :
Mr T. Eugene Wood - - - £5 0 0
Miss E. M. Leaf - - - lo 0
THE MYERS MEMORIAL LECTURE, 1939
The Frederic W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture, the Sixth of the
Series, was delivered by the Very Rev. W. R. Matthews, K.C.V.O.,
D.D., Dean of St Paul's, at Manson House, 26 Portland Place,
London, W. 1, on Wednesday, 17 January 1910, at 3 p.m. The
President in the Chair.
The Lecture, which is entitled " Psychical Research and Theo-
logy ", has been published in Proceedings. It can also be obtained
(from the Secretary) as a separate publication, uniform with the
five preceding Lectures, price Is.
PRIVATE MEETINGS
The 167th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library on Wednesday, 28 February 1940, at 3.30 p.m.
A paper entitled An Experiment in Long-Distance Telepathy
between London and Athens " was read by the Research Officer,
Mr C. V. C. Herbert.
The 168th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library on Wednesday, 20 March 1940, at 5.30 p.m. Mr W. H.
Salter in the Chair.
A paper entitled " Experiments in the Paranormal Cognition of
Drawings " was read by Mr W. Whately Carington, which will be
published in Proceedings.
MISS ALICE JOHNSON
After Part 161 of our Proceedings, containing an Obituary of Miss
Alice Johnson had gone to press, we received some further par-
ticulars of her scientific work, which will be of interest to our
members.
In 1884 she contributed to the Proceedings of the Royal Society
a paper " On the changes and ultimate fate of the blastophore in the
newt {Triton Cristatus) ; this paper was later printed in an expanded
form in the quarterly Jo«r«a? of Microscopical Science. In 1886 she
contributed to the Proceedings of the Royal Society, a further paper
Maech-Apkil 1940 Miss Alice Johnson 161
' On the development of the Cranial nerves of the newt ". At that
time contributions by women to the Royal Society's Proceedings
were a considerable rarity.
A former colleague of Alice Johnson writes :
" When the Society was housed in "20 Hanover Square, it had for
neighbour the Irish Literary Society, of which W. B. Yeats was a
leading member. He used sometimes to drop into the Society's
rooms, and on one occasion after a talk with Alice Johnson, whose
attitude to psychic phenomena was a good deal more critical than
his own, he said to me, as he left the office, '
It is my belief that if
you people had been standing round when the Almighty was
creating the world. He couldn't have done ut.'
"
CASE : COINCIDENT DREAMS
The following was communicated to the Society by The Hon. Mrs
Robert Trefusis, O.B.E. :
Statement by Mrs Trefusis
On the morning of February .5th Miss Granville Hey came into
my office and told me the following : That the night l^efore, viz.
the Sunday night, February 4th, she had had an awful dream, that
she had dreamt that Mary Bromwich was being murdered, that she
saw it quite distinctly, and that I had appeared and started the
most awful screaming, and went on and on. She said that in her
dream she said to herself : this cannot be real, as Mrs Trefusis
would never scream like that.
Mary arrived in the building about half an hour after this, and a
little later on when I went into the office where she works, she said
to me, " Wasn't it funny Miss Granville having that dream, as I
dreamt that I was being murdered last night." I said at once,
" Did you tell Miss Granville that before or after she told you of
her dream? " and she said, Oh, I didn't mention it until Miss
Granville told me."
However, she then told me that she had told her husband about
her dream that morning, and I have ascertained that she told him
before she had had any communication with either of us.
(Signed) Dorothy M. E. Trefusis
At the request of the Research Officer, Mrs Trefusis has obtained
the following signed statements from Miss Granville Hey and Mrs
Bromwich.
162 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March-Apkil 1940
Statement by Miss Granville Hey
On Sunday night, February 4th, 1940, I dreamt that Mrs Brom-
wich and I were in the back of an old-fashioned open touring car.
Suddenly when the car was stationary, Mrs B. was shot through
the left temple. She fell back but was not apparently dead. Before
I could attend to her, Mrs Trefusis rushed up and started screaming,
" Who did it? " ; but there did not appear to be anyone else there.
On arrival at the Oifice on Monday morning, I told Mrs Trefusis
about it, about half an hour before Mrs B. arrived.
I have never before dreamt about Mrs Bromwich or Mrs Trefusis.
(Signed) E. Granville Hey
Statement by Mrs Bromwich
I dreamt I was at a railway station, and on the opposite platform
there seemed to be a nasty crowd. Instead of rails, water separated
us. This crowd came across to our hut,^ and we tried to prove to
them they could do us no harm as we showed them the needles we
had which could kill someone : they were like large gramophone
needles.
Well, we thought they had gone. Next I remember being in a
room and turning round and seeing one of the men, and he had the
needles and started hurling them at me, and I felt them going into
my body ; and in the room with me was my small niece and I was
terrified they would touch her and screamed for my sister-in-law
but she never came. I just felt myself dying and could do nothing,
and the fear of my niece being hurt was worrying me.
I told my husband when I woke up what a nasty dream I had
had.
I have never before dreamt of being murdered.
Dream took place between 11 p.m. and 7 a.m. on night of Sunday,
February 4th.
(Signed) Mary D. Bromwich
Statement by Mr Bromwich
My wife told me about this dream the next morning, and how she
had been murdered by a form of a silver needle.
(Signed) H. G. Bromwich
The original statements are in the possession of the Society.
1 In answer to an inquiry, Mrs Bromwich has explained that in her dream
there was a hut on the platform instead of a waiting-room.
Maech-Apeil 1940. A Glimpse into the Future ? 163
A GLIMPSE INTO THE FUTURE?
By T. R. C.
[The following record of a personal exjDcrience has been sent by a
correspondent who is known to us as a scientifically interested
observer of subjective events. F. W. H. Myers, referring to the
possible nature of experience at or immediately following the time
of death, speaks of a small group of cases, which I admit to be
anomalous and non-evidential—for we cannot prove that they
were more than subjective experiences—yet which certainly should
not be lost, filling as they do, in all their grotesqueness, a niche in
our series otherv^dse as yet vacant." ^ The present record is an
interesting addition to the few cases of this type which are available.]
During the afternoon of 22nd June 1939, having been seriously ill
for two or three days, I began to feel that I might not live much
longer.
By about 9.0 that night I had become entirely resigned to death.
An injection given me by the doctor failed to produce sleep except
for very brief periods, and my vitahty got gradually lower in a
fluctuating way. More than once it reached a very low level, when
I felt a numbness in my feet. On one occasion the numbness crept
upwards until there was no sensation of feeling below my knees
and very little in my fingers and hands. For a moment my heart
suddenly failed to beat and I was convinced that the end had come.
The following account is an attempt to describe my feelings on
this particular occasion ; but more than once during the night I had
the same experiences, though in a less vi\dd form.
I seemed to be descending a vertical shaft or tube roughly the
shape of an inverted chimney-stack. (It may, however, have been
cylindrical, the shghtly conical aspect being just a matter of per-
spective.) The shaft seemed if anything rather narrow in diameter,
but there was no feeling of constriction. Nor was there any sense
of gravity, or of going down head or feet first—in fact no physical
feehng at all except that of sight and descent. (The speed was per-
haps rather rapid at first but subsequently indeterminate.)
I cannot describe what composed the shaft beyond saying that it
seemed to be made of some impenetrable unmaterial substance or
vapour, intensely luminous in appearance—not absolutely white,
more a very light cream colour—and had a definite mesh-shaped
^ F. W. H. Myers, Human Personality, Vol. II, §713. The whole passage
suggests some explanation of the " dreamlike and fantastic " form which such
experiences are observed to take.
164 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Maech-Apeil 1940
pattern of black intersecting lines in squares. Owing to their
extreme brightness it was impossible to see through the sides or
walls.
Some distance below the bottom of the open shaft, which ended
as it were in mid-space, was a flat level surface resembling an
apparently endless desert of which I could only see a comparatively
small part ;
though as I nearecl the bottom the range of vision
automatically expanded. Above this surface was an indescribable
atmosphere unlike anything on earth, dull and opaque, rather dimly
lit and all of one monotonous colour, a curious dark drab. It gave
me the impression of being boundless except for the level surface
below.
The atmosphere was not uninhabited though it is impossible to
describe its occupants of whom I caught only the vaguest ghmpses
as they hovered about half-hidden in a sort of foHage. (I felt cer-
tain that these winged spirits or souls, whatever they were, had all
previously lived on this earth.)
I can think of no other positive terms in which to describe what
might perhaps best be called The Shades ". The main impressions
it made on my mind were negative, set out very roughly in order of
intensity as follows
1 . Monotony of drab colour.
2. Silence.
3. Absence of pleasure.
4. Extreme banahty, sombre rather than actually melancholic.
5. A feeling that everything was of a lower order, or on a lower
scale than what one is accustomed to on earth.
6. A considerable differing from earthly conceptions of time and
distance, too vague for exposition or even for clear comprehension
at the time.
7. Absence of pain. (This may have been an afterthought.)
[N.B.—These impressions would naturally arise from the before-
mentioned absence of all physical feeling except that of sight.]
The main sensations I experienced were as follows :
The shaft was simply a brief transitional state of being, connecting
life on this earth with that of The Shades.
I had actually left this earth, but as long as I remained in the shaft
it would be possible for me to return.
There Avas no sense of my going to fall through the bottom of the
open shaft on to the surface beneath—as aforesaid, no sense of
gravity. If I did reach the bottom of the shaft I should simply
escape or move from its confines into the Shades, at which moment
March-April 1940 A Glimpse into the Future ? 165
death would occur, and return to earth would become wholly
impossible. I should then no longer be in any way confined, but
free to explore at my leisure and will, in novel conditions of time
and distance, the strange and rather unwelcome surroundings that
began to expand as my range of vision increased ; free to get into com-
munication with " dead " people whom I had known on this earth.
There was a marked feeling of disappointment, not so much at
leaving this earth as of a sense of banality or commonplaceness in
the earth I was approaching ; an earth which was, unexpectedly,
far inferior to the vague conception of heaven or a future life I had
hitherto entertained. Put very bluntly, it did not come up to
expectations!
Simultaneously with this feeling was a partially compensating
sense that this was not the end, merely the beginning of another life
in which, somehow, I should not be entirely separated from those
whom I was leaving on this earth (though they wotdd be from me),
and in which I was just about to rejoin several who had previously
departed from me by death. In other words I felt that the new
approaching life was a mere continuation (in not very pleasant
circumstances) of what was ending here. This was, perhaps, my
most vivid sensation—satisfaction at the supreme certainty that Life
did not end on this earth.
I also felt a keen sense of wonderment at what was approaching,
vaguely comparable to the feeling of entering a new school. Mingled,
however, with this was a curious feeling of self-consciousness and
surprise at finding myself still my present age, and not entirely
unfamiliar with my rapidly approaching new surroundings.
These impressions and sensations, objectively imposed on my
mind, I have just strung together as best I can. My keenest recollec-
tion is that of reaching the very bottom of the shaft and feeling that
it was my moral duty to make an effort to return to earth. To
describe this, however, would be to deal with subjective matter
(concerning my conscience, etc.) which I have tried throughout to
avoid.
IMAGES OF THE SELF
We have received only three letters describing images of the self
seen in dreams, and no description of such an image seen otherwise
than in dream, during seven weeks following the last issue of the
Journal. In this, it will be remembered, there was printed an
account of a clearly visualised and externalised self-image, seen by
166 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Mabch-April 1940
Baroness de Kakucs iu a state of consciousness somewhat resembling
that in which hypnogogic pictures are commonly formed, though in
this case sleep did not follow, and the experience was in other ways
unlike that of the typical hypnogogic dream. Considering the
question put by Professor H. H. Price in his Presidential Address,
whether images of the self are not extremely rare, we suggested that
members should send notes of any similar experiences that might be
known to them. There has been, at any rate, no resjionse from our
members suggesting that such experiences can be regarded as
common.
Indeed, two of the correspondents who write of visualising them-
selves in dreams speak with considerable doubt on the question
whether they have dreamed of true self-images (in the visual sense)
or only of figures " known ", in the dream, to be themselves. The
third correspondent describes a clear dream-picture of himself
—
seen standing on a ladder, and wearing a hat ;
but he,
again, expresses a feeling of doubt whether the figure was visually
identified as that of himself or only " known " to be himself. It
would appear that self-images observed in dreams are presentations
which, like dream-presentations of other people, shade off from
visual verisimilitude into a mere impression of the dream-personality,
coupled with a visual image which may be vague or, in some cases,
absurdly unlike the person " knowm " to be represented. The
dream-mind is not, in fact, very often concerned with verisimilitude.
The result, so far, of inquiry from our members is that no case has
been reported which resembles the experience of Baroness de
Kakucs in presenting an image of the self that can be identified by
form and feature or by other visible characteristics.
CORRESPONDENCE
Sir,—Among the many points of interest raised by Professor
Price in his recent Presidential Address, one at least is perhaps
capable of receiving some light from experience. Professor Price
urges the importance of getting accurate descriptions of what the
subject experiences in extra-sensory perception. It would be best,
he says, if the experimenter himself could have these experiences
and particularly if psychologists and philosophers could have them,
for they would know exactly what points to look out for and how to
compare the supernormal with the normal sensory experience. In
this way we should accumulate material for building a hypothesis
of the extra-sensory process.
March-April 1940 Correspondence 167
Unfortunately the excellent plan seems to be fraught with diffi-
culty. The indications occurring in my work with Miss G. M.
Jolmson (which I give for what they are worth) tend to show that
we are forced to deal with two separate states of consciousness, one
belonging to the extra-sensory experience and the other to normal
sensory experience, and that the liaison between them is of the
sKghtest, so that the critical faculty cannot be carried over from
one to the other.
In January 1936, Miss Johnson read a paper to the S.P.R., which
was specially designed to describe her experiences during the process
of acquiring extra-sensory knowledge. This paper was not pub-
lished, which is perhaps to be regretted, since any facts which serve
as a guide in our present necessarily wild state of theorising are not
to be despised. She laid stress on the fact that her extra-sensory
knowledge lies in a separate compartment of consciousness from her
normal knowledge ; and she gave examples. A typical and common
experience of hers is that of meeting a person without an appoint-
ment. She will turn up unexpectedly where that person is and while
that person is wishing to find her. When this happens, she does not
have the experience of entertaining a proposition in her conscious
mind, such as, ''I know that A is now at the place X and I must
therefore go to X to find him or her ". (I do not know whether
her state of mind can strictly be called cognitive ".) If she is in
possession of " knowledge ", that knowledge exists in a parallel
and separate compartment of consciousness and not in her normal
consciousness. She experiences an urge or inclination to go to the
place X, coupled with something comparable with a visual image
of A, which is somehow linked with the idea of X. But it must
not be thought that the image of A stands in the same relation to
conscious thought as does an image called up by the imagination.
It is not in a position to be scrutinised or analysed ; moreover she
says that the whole experience happens in a flash. (I think however
that the urge may be continuous.) To use her own words, she
" sees A at the back of her mind ". The point is that none of the
experience—urge or image—occurs in that part of the consciousness
which can be subjected to critical analysis, so that a trained psycho-
logist, having the experience, would be little better off than an
amateur. It sometimes happens that, while this extra-sensory
experience is going on, a parallel process of logical deduction is
going on in the normal part of the consciousness. Thus, while
" knowing " extra-sensorily that A is at X, Miss Johnson may be
reasoning that he is much more likely to be at Y : and she may
actually go to Y, still " knowing " extra-sensorUy that he is at X.
168 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Maech-Apkil 1940
Here the two conscious fields would appear to be independent. But
it sometimes happens that a partial piece of extra-sensory " know-
ledge " will finish as a logical train of reasoning in the conscious
mind, and thus, although starting correctly, may end in a false
conclusion. This gives evidence of a certain amount of bridging
between the two states of consciousness. It also suggests what
probably occm^s when the pronouncement of a genuine sensitive
turns out to be wrong.
The suggestion that the extra-sensory faculty might be brought
under control may therefore be impracticable in principle : or it
may be practicable only after the application of a difficult technique.
Perhaps this conclusion does not sound very helpful : yet the mere
knowledge that important cognitive processes of some sort are
going on in a department of the mind separated from normal con-
sciousness (but comprised within the same personality), may help
to fill in the perspective for a psychical theory. It may turn out
that normal consciousness, with its own range of concepts, is not
so much in the centre of things as we thought but, rather, is a
highly speciahsed by-product evolved for dealing with an odd
little corner of the universe called the " physical world ".
It would seem to be essential that as many workers as possible
should examine the subjective experiences of sensitives with the
importance of theory in view. The present vogue of statistical
research does not encourage this, since it places all the importance
on the results and none on the process. But the subjective exper-
iences of a reliable subject, vivid and impressive as they are, do in
themselves constitute evidence for the supernormal, which it would
be iinreasonable to ignore.
Yoiirs, etc., G. N. M. Tyrrell.
Evidence of Survival and of Telepathy between the Living
Dear Sir,—Part 150 of Proceedings has, it seems to me, brought
to the fore a somewhat curious and paradoxical situation.
On the one hand we have the very striking material presented in
Mr Thomas' paper on his proxy sittings ^
—so difficult to account
for, in fact, that even Professor Dodds seems to be rather " stimiped"
in his efforts to explain it. In fact, his only alternative suggestion
is that the supernormal information undoixbtedly displayed was
* " A Proxy Experiment of Significant Success," Proc, Vol. XLV, p. 157.
Maech-Apeil 1940 Correspondence 169
obtained by unconscious telepathic transfer from persons at great
distances—persons who were not thinking of the facts at the time,
and even unaware (specifically) of the progress of the experiments.
On the other hand we have the negative results in simple tele-
pathy reported by Professor Thouless! ^ In these it was found that
the greatest difficulty was experienced in securing even the faintest
indications of telepathy—and this when both agent and percipient
were actively co-operating ; when the information to be conveyed
was vividly in the mind of the agent, and when the time-element
was obviously the same for both. (This difficulty in obtaining
positive results has, seemingly, been noted also by Mr Soal and
others, in their recent tests.)
Now the point is this : If telepathy be such a universal, free-and-
easy process, as postulated by Professor Dodds, why does it not
evidence itself in the telepathic experiments ? And if it be as rare
and difficult a process as the telepathic experiments seem to indicate,
how is it that it manifests itself so easily and with such enormous
complexity in the spiritistic experiments ?
One cannot both have one's cake and eat it ; and this seems to
be a case in point. Surely (to vary the metaphor) there must be a
" nigger in the wood-pile " somewhere!
Of course, it may be contended that Mrs Leonard's " subliminal
"
is a very rare one, capable of acquiring such information in a way
quite impossible to the " normal " person. (It is this ability, in
fact, which constitutes her a medium.) But this is tantamoimt to
saying that the ability to obtain supernormal information is like-
wise rare, and that only few subjects possess it. . . . Yet when this
very point is emphasised by experimenters in E.S.P., they are im-
mediately accused of subterfuge, and the assumption made that, if
telepathy be a fact, it should be capal^le of demonstration by any-
one at any time—as witness the remark by Professor Thouless that
" if E.S.P. is a genuine phenomenon, it is to be hoped that investi-
gators of it Avill so standardise the conditions that the results can be
repeated in any laboratory ".
If special psychic ability is necessary in order to obtain spiritistic
(telepathic) information, why should it not be necessary in order to
ensure significant E.S.P. results? Aiid if it is a mere excuse, and
not reaUy necessary, in the E.S.P. tests, then why isn't everyone a
medium? Either outstanding psychic abihty is rare or it isn't : if
it is, why not grant this in telepathic experiments? If not, then
why aren't the E.S.P. tests more successful?
1 " Report on Glasgow Repetition of Dr Rhine's Experiments on Extra-
Sensory Perception," ibid., p. 252.
170 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Maech-April 1940
Assuredly it is easy to " standardise the conditions ", but unfor-
tunately that is not the main problem involved. The problem is to
" standardise " the psychic faculties of the participants in the
experiments—a very different matter! I am quite convinced, from
personal experience, that there is an element in E.S.P. tests which
does not and probably never will lend itself to statistical analysis,
much as this may be regretted. And this element is the most
important one involved, being in fact the whole crux of the matter.
Let me give an illustration of this.
On numerous occasions I have tried experiments in E.S.P., using
the regular Zener cards while doing so. The results were always
" chance ". During the afternoon of March 6, 1937, some friends
came in to tea, and I tried again, with the usual results. Soon after
they had gone, however, I said to my wife, " I feel psychic! Let's
try some tests now! " We tried five runs through the pack of
coloured Zener cards, I acting as percipient. During these trials
my correct " hits " were ; 9, 13, 13, 18, 12. Ifelt that I was getting
the cards correctly, whereas on all previous occasions I had felt
that I was merely guessing. This feeling of uncertainty was noted on
all subsequent occasions, when my averages again fell to " chance ".
Now, on this particular occasion, I am convinced, something hap-
pened inside me which rendered such success possible—which opened
a door, so to speak, to telepathic impressions. What it was that
happened, and what this Door may be, I have not, of course, the
ghost of an idea. But I am also convinced that, if we knew this,
we should have gone a long way toward understanding the secret of
telepathic transfer—and perhaps even more startling psychic
phenomena.
The point I wish to make, however, is that this peculiar subjec-
tive condition is not subject to laboratory control or to statistical
treatment. It is rare and spontaneous, linking it to the dramatic
and striking " spontaneous " cases, which seemingly illustrate the
same inner mechanism, quite beyond the voluntary control of the
subject.
Emotion plays a major role in all such spontaneous cases, and I
am convinced that it is largely due to the absence of this emotional
factor that experimental cases fall so far short of the spontaneous
ones, in all telepathic experiences.
I fully realise that all this must prove highly exasperating to the
mathematician ; but that is part of the penalty he must pay for
becoming a psychical researcher!
To return once more to the point raised at the beginning of this
letter : Professor Dodds frankly acknowledges that there are only
Maech-April 1940 Correspondence 171
two conceivable theories capable of accounting for the facts con-
tained in the Thomas proxy sittings. These are (a) the telepathic,
and {b) the spiritistic. All others he raises only to dismiss them ;
and in this he agrees with Hodgson, Hyslop, Lodge and many others
who have discussed similar cases. Professor William McDougall,
also, in summing-up his impressions of the material contained in
John E. Thomas' book Beyond Human Cogniiion, stated that the
alternatives seemed to lie between some extensive and hitherto im-
proved type of telepathy, and genuine spirit communication. The
alternatives seem to be much the same here.
Without in any way attempting to decide this question, two
points may, I think, be made in conclusion. These are :
(1) Dr Hodgson, in working with Mrs Piper, tried the telepathic
hypothesis for ten years, and the spiritistic hypothesis for another
ten years, and came to the deliberate conclusion that the latter was
justified, while the former Avas not.
(2) Those who reject telepathy, or refuse to accept it as a vera
causa, are left with no other alternative but spiritualism. If there
be but two alternatives, and one of these be rejected, the other
must be accepted. For, as I said in a lecture, some time ago, before
the Anthropology class at Columbia University (which had tried to
discredit Rhine's work), " You had jolly well better believe in tele-
pathy, because if you don't there is no possible escape from spiritual-
ism as an explanation of the phenomena!
"
I don't think they liked it very much, but it is the truth never-
theless. The rarer such telepathic " faculties " are shown to be,
the more striking and convincing do the seemingly spiritistic
messages become.
In all this, of course, I am not contending that the spiritistic
interpretation is necessarily the true one. I am merely endeavour-
ing to emphasise the weaknesses of the alternative explanations.
Time alone will tell which interpretation is correct.
Yours, etc.,
Hereward Carrington.
Criticisms of Reviews
Moses and Monotheism
Sir,—In the Proceedings for December 1939 (Part 160, Vol.
XLV) the reviewer of Professor Freud writes, His undeviating
search for truth . . . has never been surpassed in the history of
172 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Maech-April 1940
science (page 346). On the opposite page is a review of Professor
Freud's book Moses and Monotheism.
Now a good deal of archaeological evidence has come to light that
bears both on Moses and Monotheism. It contradicts Professor
Freud's conclusions. For example, Moses died before Ikhnaton's
reign. Monotheism goes back long before Ikhnaton's time.
The contents of Professor Freud's book are a series of ingenious
speculations on the part, of himself and other people. But, to use
the language of our Society, this is not " veridical ". We demand
rigorous evidence in psychical matters. How comes it that Professor
Freud's speculations about Moses and Monotheism are to be
exempted, and to be dignified with the honoured name of science?
Why strain at gnats in Psychical Research when we swallow camels
elsewhere ?
Yours very truly, Charles Marston.
(Sir Charles Marston has explained, on inquiry, that the view of the
historical evidence assumed in the above letter is that expressed in his
book. The Bible Comes Alive, and in his other publications.
—
Ed.)
The Study of Psychic Experience
Sir,—In the January-February, 1940, issue of the Journal
appears a review, signed Laurence J. Bendit, in which occurs the
following passage :
" This book is not by any means a scientific
one in the narrow sense : no proofs are offered. That is an aspect
of research which can, however, well be left to the mechanised type
of psychic researcher, who has in the past done much reliable work,
if only by elimination, in establishing the occurrence of para-
psychological phenomena. Nowadays, however, when all but the
'
closed '
mind accepts these as facts, this book offers something of
greater interest, which is a record of what is obviously real experi-
ence."
The writer of this passage is, of course, alone responsible for it.
Nevertheless, may I be allowed to say, in most restrained language,
that I think it somewhat ill-judged? What the writer means by
scientific " in the narrow sense " I do not know. Nor do I know
how a book on psychical research in which no proofs are offered
"
can be scientific in any sense. In the next sentence " reliable " is
presumably a misprint for " valuable " ; but what on earth is " the
mechanised type of psychic researcher "? The context appears to
imply that the writer means by this the type of researcher who
" establishes " the reality of phenomena by " eliminating " error
March-Apkil 1940 Correspondence 173
and fraud. Is it seriously suggested that this type of investigation
was useful only " in the past " and that " nowadays " this kind of
work is superfluous?
In the following sentence, what are " these " parapsychological
phenomena which " all " " but the '
closed '
mind accepts "? The
book under review (of which I know nothing and which is not in
question so far as this letter is concerned), we are told, " offers
something of greater interest " than paraiDsychological phenomena
(this is what the writer says, but he means, I think, something of
greater interest than " mechanised " investigation). How then
are the experiences recorded in it " obviously " real? The writer
is of course quite entitled to use his intuition rather than his critical
faculties in reviewing books—but not dogmatically to assert, as a
general principle, the superiority of the former over the latter as a
method of research.
Yours, etc.,
Theodore Besterman.
(Dr. Bendit's views are, of course, his own ; but the question has
been raised by others, and notably by the President, whether
psychical research should not go beyond the establishment of fact
to the construction of theory for its better comprehension. This
may involve paying more attention to psychological facts for what
they are. It need not involve lowering our standards of evidence
in interpreting what they mean.
—
Ed.)
MEDIUMSHIP OF THE LATE MR JACK WEBBER
Reports of various sittings with Mr Webber, whose death was
recently announced, are in the possession of the Society and may
be seen by Members and Associates on application to the Research
Officer.
DR L. R. G. CRANDON
We regret to record the death of Dr L. R. G. Crandon of Boston,
U.S.A., who had been a member of the Society since 1924. He took
a prominent part in the investigation of the phenomena of his wife
(" Margery "), and in the heated controversies which resulted from
them. In 1929, when on a visit to England with Mrs Crandon, he
was granted the loan of the Society's Seance room for an interesting
series of sittings, of which a report is to be found in Vol. XXXIX of
Proceedings.
174 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Maech-Apbil 1940
Several of our members who visited the United States have cause
to remember Dr and Mrs Crandon's courteous hospitahty.
REVIEW
The Dream World. By E. L. Megroz. John Lane. 10s. 6d. net.
Mr Megroz has made an interesting survey of the position of
the dream in the estimation of civihzed people, from early
days up to the present, and prints many records of dreams of
different kinds. While Mr de la Mare's recent work. Behold, this
Dreamer, represents the literary and poetic quality of dreaming
and of dream-inspiration, Mr Megroz may be said to have represented
the status of dreaming, as it has been regarded by observant and
more or less thoughtful people. It is of interest to note that modern
views of dream-psychology, including that of psycho-analysis, are
not so foreign to the views of early commentators as might have
been expected, and that old interpretations of the significance of
dreaming have been by no means confined to fanciful and super-
stitious patterns.
A proportion of the general interest in dreams is concerned with
those that have, or seem to have, a paranormal character, and this
proportion is fairly represented in the examples that Mr Megroz has
chosen. He is not concerned with the question of strict evidence for
paranormality in dreaming, his general plan being rather to survey
the field of human regard for dreams than to criticise any views that
may be held. Psychical research workers may wish that para-
normal dreams had been included for which more definite and
accurate evidence could be adduced, but the setting-out of such
evidence is an elaborate and often a cumbrous business, some-
what outside the scope of a book of this kind, not primarily
intended for students of psychical matters. The value of the work
lies in the conspectus that it provides of dream-activity in many
aspects, and in the very readable and often acute commentary with
which Mr Megroz has strung his material together.
NOTES ON PERIODICALS
Revue Metaphysique. May-June 1939.
A Metagnome graphologist : M. Otto Reinmnn, by R. Warcollier.
Otto Reimann undertakes to describe persons whose letters he
holds and to give a full account of their lives. M. Warcollier here
Makch-Apbil 1940 Notes on Periodicals 175
gives extensive material for judging his achievements. These are
somewhat reminiscent of those of Stefan Ossowiecki, though Otto
Reimann Umits himself as regards his ol)jects " to letters.
Great Vision of Crosses, Armies and FigJits in the Air, by C. de
Vesme.
M. de Vesme finishes his series. He rejects the explanations
which have been advanced from various sides and says we must
seek further for the true cause of those strange happenings.
Psykisk Tidsskrift. July-September 1939.
Nana. Louisa's Secondary Personality, by Dr Thorstein Wereide.
Louisa is a Hungarian medium, and Nona has been her companion
from childhood. Experiments with this medium at Oslo in 1930
produced phenomena of the order of materialisations and direct
writing. Jorgen Bull of Oslo made experiments with Louisa-Nona
which resulted in the appearance of the word " Nona " on suitably
secured photographic plates.
The Mediumshij) of Fra Ingeborg Koher. K. Emil Bodtker.
The author describes Fru Kober's various trance-states, including
" sleeping trance ", " Waking trance " and " half trance ", and certain
of her phenomena, comprising evidence for the identity of a visiting
spirit, and reading in closed books. Reference is made to the book
test given by her to Mr Besterman (see Journal, Vol. XXVII, p. 343.
An Account of New Control and Experimental Methods for Psyc/iic
Phenomena. By Dr G. A. Schwaiger.
Dr Schwaiger was the vice-president of the Austrian Psychical
Research Society. He devised a ne^v method of control for physical
phenomena, an apparatus somewhat similar to that devised Ijy
Dr Osty. In his experiments with Rudi Schneider his results were,
however, negative.
Tijdschrift Voor Parapsycliologie . November 1939.
Prophesy and the Problem of Time. Dr J. F. Carriere.
Dr Carriere discusses the theory that time has a varying signifi-
cance for individuals, and that prophesy may be thus tentatively
explained.
Some Remarks on Memory. By Dr W. H. C. Tenhaeff.
Dr Tenhaeff discusses the connection of memory with the brain
and the views of physicians and philosophers, ancient and modern,
176 Journal of Society for Psychical Research March-Apeh. 1940
on the subject. He further deals with psychoscopy and the theory
of the super-individual consciousness, and finally remarks on the
theory, common to Leibniz and Osty, that every man is, in his
"deepest self" acquainted with his future, so that those who
prophesy a man's future merely read his subconscious mind.
H. E. K.
ERRATUM
In the Journal for Jan-Eeb. 1940, p. 152, 6th line up, /or " Baroness
de Kallucs " read " Baroness de Kakucs ".
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Coimcil. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only ". The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
Xo. 565-566.—Vol. XXXI, M.\y-June 1940
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 20 March 1940)
Cozens Gentry, F., The Leas Hotel, Folkestone, Kent.
[Elected 1 April 1940)
Bartholomew, Ralph, 14 West 10 Street, New York, U.S.A.
{Elected 29 Slay 1940)
Fanshawe, Miss M. M., Kerry House, Basil Street, London, S.W. 3.
Gardiner, S. M., 19 Orchard Road, Erdington, Birmingham 24.
Librarian, Trinity College, Cambridge.
McLean, Dr Gladys F. A., 3 Avenham Colonnade, Preston, Lanes.
Smith, B. D., 145 Ramsden Road, London, S.AV. 12.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 379th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 20 March 1940, at 3.45 p.m.. The
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, CB.E., in the Chair. There were
also present : Mr Whately Carington, Miss Jephson, Sir Lawrence
Jones, Bart.. Miss Newton, Mr W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal, Admiral
the Hon. A. C. Strutt, and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell : also Mr C. V. C.
Herbert, Research Officer, Mr Kenneth Richmond, Editor of the
Journal, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
The Report of the Annual General Meeting was presented and
taken as read.
1,
178 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May-June 1940
One new Member was elected. His name and address are given
above.
The following co-optations were renewed for the year 1940-1941 :
Mr Oliver Gatty, Sir Robert Gower, M.P., Mr Gerald Heard, Pro-
fessor Julian Huxley, Miss Newton, the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas,
Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell and Miss Nea Walker.
The 380th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 29 May 1940, at 5.30 p.m.. The
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There were
also present : Mr A¥hately Carington, Miss I. Jephson, Sir Lawrence
Jones, Bart., Miss L Newton and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also Mr
Kenneth Richmond, Editor of the Journal, Mr C. V. C. Herbert,
Research Officer, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Comicil were read and
signed as correct.
Five new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
Dr Gardner Murphy and Dr J. B. Rhine were elected Correspond-
ing Members of the Society, and Miss H. Carruthers was elected an
Honorary Associate.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 170th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library on Wednesday, 29 May 1940, at 3.30 p.m. Mr Kenneth
Richmond in the Chair.
A paper entitled " The Ultra-Perceptive Faculty " was read by
Dr J. Hettinger. A discussion followed in which Mr Whately Caring-
ton, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton and Mr
Kenneth Richmond took part.
CASE: THE MISSING WATER VALVE
A Sequel to an Experiment in E.S.P.
(The following incident has been communicated by Mr E. P. Gibson,
who is known to Members in connexion with the investigation of
E.S.P. in the United States.)
On July 19, 1935, Mrs Gibson and myself were testing Mr J. H.
for extra-sensory perception. Previous to this time he had produced
interesting automatism. His ability to produce poetry spontaneously
and rapidly by means of the Ouija board had intrigued us and when
the opportunity offered, we decided to test him with E.S.P. cards.
The cards used for this experiment were several packs of E.S.P,
May-June 1940 Case : The Missing Water Valvt 179
cards, prepared by hand-stamping upon playing card l)lanks. They
were quite free from marking and other discernible sensory-cues
and were examined before and after the experiment. In 350 trials
using the technique of Open Matching, J. H. made 192 hits or an
average of 13.72 hits per 25. Mean chance expectation would have
been 5 hits per 25. During the experiment he directed the placing
of some of the cards from across the room, where he walked slowly
back and forth in what seemed a semi-dissociated state. A few
runs were made while he sat at a table, with eyes apparently closed,
indifferent to remarks in the room, choosing the pile and dealing
spasmodically. There appeared to be no difference between the
runs made at the table and the runs in which Mrs Gibson laid the
cards for him from across the room. He was permitted to shuffle
the pack during the first and second runs but when the high scoring
tendency manifested with the second run, the shuffling and card con-
trol was taken from his hands. His first 8 runs with this procedure
netted the following number of hits : 5, 19, 21, 15, 23, 20, 20, 12.
This series was quite astounding, the apparent E.S.P. ability
surpassing any demonstration made by other subjects. It was
decided to test him in a practical manner if possible to see whether
what we had witnessed could be turned to useful ends.
At the time of this experiment, I was employed as City Engineer
of East Grand Rapids, Michigan. It occurred that he might be
tested in a manner which might settle a problem which had been
perplexing the local water department.
For over a year, that department had been searching for an
unrecorded and lost valve on a large water service feeding a large
estate outside of the municipal limits. The amount of water being
used was considerable, there had been arguments about meter
readings, and it was important that the valve be located. Search of
the parkway and pavement with a dipping needle had failed to
yield anything and there were no municipal records indicating
where the valve might be found.
At the close of J. H.'s test in open matching, he was asked as to
the location of the lost valve, the property and street intersection
being described to him roughly. He asked what there was near by
from which such a valve might be located and it was suggested that
the corner boundary post of the estate would serve. J. H. then
slipped again into the semi-dissociated state which resembled that of
light hypnotic trance. Then he said sleepily :
" I get sixty-four feet."
Questioned as to the direction from the pillar in which the valve-
box would be found, he said that he had no feehng as to direction
180 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May-June 1940
but a feeling as to sixty-four feet. As we were intrigued that J. H.
would tackle such an impossible task, the test was described to a
witness ^ in a letter dated July 20th and a sketch of the estate was
sent him, showing the wide frontage and the direction in which I
assumed the missing valve box must lie.-
On August 5, 1935, after fruitless searching in various places, the
pavement was broken in four places in hope of uncovering something
and the missing valve was found four and one-half feet below the
pavement of Plymouth Road, the extension box which would have
extended to the pavement surface never having been installed. The
box had been paved over and had been forgotten.
The valve was found sixty-three feet almost due south of the centre
of the corner pillar of the estate. This is within one foot of the
dimension given by J. H. on the night of July 20. Throughout it had
been my assumption that the valve would 1)6 found somewhere east
or south-east of the corner pillar and inasmuch as the estate was
five hundred feet in width, a wide latitude in possible locations
seemed to exist.
The service in question was installed in the winter of 1914-1915.
The superintendent who was in charge of the construction was dead.
One of the labourers who had worked on the installation was foimd
after the guess of J. H. was made and he suggested opening Plymouth
Road instead of hunting further in Robinson Road where our early
search had been made. The suggested location pointed out by this
man proved to be ten feet away from the location where the valve
was finally found.
Plymouth Road was paved with concrete in 1927 and no valve
indications or signs of a trench had been in existence since that
period. J. H. did not come to Grand Rapids to live until 1929.
Normal knowledge of the valve location would be impossible for him.
The whole perceptive incident took place at my home, five miles air
line distance from the location discussed. The topic was brought up
on the spur of the moment.
Two hypotheses offer themselves in this case. (1) The location of
the valve measurement so closely was merely fortuitous and a case
of coincidence. (2) The other theory is that extra-sensory perception
operated in some manner so as to furnish J. H. with a distance
measurement to the missing shut-off. In the light of his E.S.P.
scoring which occurred coincidentally, I am inclined to favour the
1 Known to the Society. We have due confirmation that the incident was
put on record as described.
^ Mr Gibson's report to the Society is accompanied by a scale plan, which
can be seen at the Society's Rooms.
May-Juxxe 1940 Case : The Missing Water Valve 181
latter hypothesis. Inasmuch as no one could offer definite informa-
tion as to the location from memory, clairvoyance seems more
tenable than telepathy as an explanation.
The case may have some kind of relationship to the dowsing
experiments as I remember reported or made by Sir William F.
Barrett and Theodore Besterman in which the dowser worked
from maps, locating the water source thereon. In this case, the
measurement was given with fair accuracy after a description of the
locality, known by sight to J. H., had been given him. The weakest
part of the evidence is that J. H. failed to give us any idea of a
direction, insisting merely on the figure of sixty-four feet. The
actual measurement was sixty-two feet to the pillar face and sixty-
three feet to the centre of the pillar.
Edmond p. Gibson.
In further correspondence Mr Gibson makes it clear that, as his
description implies, the actual discovery of the missing valve was
made by the local water engineers without making use of the measure-
ment given by the percipient in this case. Mr Gibson adds a piece
of information which helps to define the improbability that know-
ledge concerning the missing valve could somehow have reached the
percipient by normal channels :
" Inasmuch as the measurement was not used by the city em-
ployees as a guide, they continued to dig holes on the best information
normally available, that of the workman who was found to have
worked on the watermain project in 1914-1915 and who remembered
that a trench had been dug in Plymouth Road to connect the
property, inasmuch as the main in Robinson Road in front of the
property at that time was not yet complete and without water.
Mr J. H. had no knowledge of this workman and it was after
considerable detective work on my part early in August ^ that he
was discovered."
FREAK BRIDGE HANDS :
And their relevance to Tests of Significance in
Psychical Research
By W. Whately Carington
I have been asked to comment on the fact (of which there seems to
be no reasonable doubt) that Bridge deals yielding four hands each
containing 13 cards of the same suit occur with a frequency such
^ i.e. some weeks after the experiment in which the measurement was given.
182 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May-June 1940
that the odds against it would be of an " astronomical " order, if
chance alone were responsible^.
Many people seem to feel that this kind of thing throws doubt on
the apphcability of probability theory and statistical methods to
psychical research. But this is not the I think can be made
clear by a simple and non-mathematical discussion.
The argument seems to be substantially as follows :
" It is
claimed that certain events (e.g. reproductions of drawings or
guessings of cards) observed in experiments occur with a frequency
such that the odds against their being due to chance are very
great : and from this it is argued that some '
paranormal '
cause
must be invoked to explain them. But even more improbable
events occur under the chance conditions of shuffled packs at bridge
tables, where there seems no question of anything paranormal
being involved at all. And if these normal events violate the
supposed '
laws of chance ', then it looks as if the laws were wrong,
or at least not inviolable. Why then should we not attribute the
experimental events to imperfections in these laws rather than to
paranormal causes?
"
The weakness lies in the assumption that bridge table conditions
are chance conditions in the mathematical sense. If they are not,
the probability calculations are not applicable, and the whole
argument falls to the ground ; for probabiUty theory, like every
other mathematical procedure, depends on the validity of its
assumptions, and if these be unjustified in any practical situation
the theoretical treatment will not apply.
Now a pack which is well enough shuffled for the purposes of the
game is by no means necessarily " well-shuffled " in the sense
assumed by the mathematician. On the contrary, both the nature
of the game and the methods of shuffling most commonly used, tend
towards facilitating the type of freak hands we are considering.
As a deliberately simplified example, suppose that the dealer
picks up four perfect (one-suit) tricks, in any order, and gives them
two perfect " fantail " shuffles, thus twice alternating the cards of one
half with those of the other half. We should then have
First arrangement : AAAABBBBCCCCDDDD
Second „ ACACACACBDBDBDBD
Third „ ABCDABCDABCDABCD
which would be dealt to the four players as AAAA, BBBB, CCCC,
DDDD, tending towards the type of hand here discussed.
1 Cf, for example, a letter and note in the Daily Telegraph for April 14th,
1940.
May-June 1940 Freak Bridge Hands 183
It is clear that if this kind of thing happens in any part of the pack
it will to that extent (which may well be large) reduce the size of
the remainder of the pack to be brought into the required order by
random shuffling. But, from what we know of the nature of the
game and the methods of shuffling usually adopted, we may be
pretty sure—as I am confident most players would agree—that
something of this sort, in greater or less degree, is hkely to be the
rule rather than the exception ; so that, in general, there will be a
definite tendency towards the dealing of hands of this type.
Thus the assumptions on which the mathematical treatment is
based will not in general be vahd, and the apparently too frequent
occurrence of four hands of thirteen of a suit need not surprise us.
The only relevance of this to psychical research is as a reminder
that, in addition to guarding against such sources of error as sensory
clues and fraud, we must also satisfy ourselves that those conditions
are fulfilled which correspond to the randomness of a shuffled pack
assumed by probabihty theory in card problems.
CORKESPONDENCE
Sir,—Professor Broad's Introduction to Mr Whately Carington's
and Mr goal's papers in the current Part of Proceedings raises several
points which psychical researchers woidd do well carefully to ponder.
May I be permitted to make a few comments on two points, namely,
(1) the position of the scientific expert in psychical research, and
(2) the relation between quantitative and quahtative investigation
of paranormal cognition ?
In the first place, it is important to emphasize that psychical
research has a technique of its own. The principles underlying this
technique are in themselves simple, but not always easy to apply in
the varying circumstances arising in the course of any psychical
investigation. Success in applying them depends largely on experi-
ence. Until these principles have been mastered and the necessary
experience in applying them has been gained, any person engagmg
in psychical research, however distinguished he may be in science or
in any other walk of life, must be considered an amateur.
The closer the connection between the expert in psychical research
and the expert in whatever branch of learning is specially relevant
to any particular investigation, the more satisfactory the results
will be. There are two stages of an investigation at which the
psychical researcher may wish to call in the expert in some other
study, first, in devising and putting into effect a system of control
184 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May-June 1940
so as to eliminate deception, normal leakage, or whatever in that
particular case may be the clanger to be guarded against, and
secondly in evaluating the results. The same expert and same
technique may happen to be of use at both stages and for both pur-
poses, but this is not necessarily so.
To take, for example, the study of physical phenomena, the first
need for the researcher in charge of the investigation is to know how
to take precautions against deception, mal-observation, etc., and it
is important that as an aid to that technique he should also be
familiar with the electrical and photographic technique to which
Professor Broad refers : the Society is indeed fortunate in having a
Research Officer so well qualified in both these respects. When,
however, it comes to evaluating the results it may be necessary to
call in aid expert knowledge of the most diverse kind. To take two
notable recent instances, in the later stages of Rudi Schneider's
mediumship, expert knowledge of the use of infra-red rays was
required ;
in the later stages of the Margery mediumship, what was
needed was expert knowledge of thumbprints. A well-known
medium of the last generation produced a wide range of apports,
including the freshly laid eggs of exotic birds and cuneiform tablets
from Ancient Mesopotamia, or so it was claimed. As it is improbable
that any Admirable Crichton will be found who will add to expertise
in psychical research a profound knowledge of physics, dermo-
glyphics, ornithology, Assyriology and whatnot, it seems probable
that the best results will be achieved by a close co-operation between
psychical researcher and scientist, each being content to be an expert
at his own job, with sufficient knowledge, if possible, of his partner's
job to render their co-operation fruitful.
The real difficulty, however, in the investigation of physical
phenomena has for long seemed to me to be, not the psychical
researcher's lack of scientific knowledge or assistance, so much as
refusal by a large number of mediums to submit to adequate
control, whether of the technical or non-technical kind. The first
forward move would appear to be of what one may call a political
rather than a technical nature, namely, an agreement between all
persons seriously interested in this line of investigation to have
nothing to do with, and to take no notice in their publications of any
mediums who refuse to accept adequate control. In connection
with mental phenomena somewhat similar conditions obtain,
except that normal leakage of an innocent kind, rather than decep-
tion, is the principal danger towards which the control system must
be directed.
Professor Broad says of non-statistical investigation of para-
May-June 1940 Correspondence 185
normal cognition " experience shows that it leaves most plain men
and scientists completely unmoved ". As regards the reactions of
plain men my experience in addressing a good number of Societies
and Clubs of one's ordinary fellow citizens emboldens me to disagree
with Prof. Broad ; I find them a great deal impressed by phenomena
of the kind collected in " Phantasms of the Living " and the Census
of Hallucinations '",
and also by such experiments of a non-statistical
kind in telepathy and clairvoyance as they may have heard of. The
trouble is that they are as much impressed with badly documented
and badly evidenced cases as with good ones. Few books connected
with psychical research have made as much impression on the
general public as J. W. Dunne's " An Experiment with Time " and
the book known as An Adventure "",
both of which, whatsoever
their other points of interest, fall much below S.P.R. evidential
standards. The plain man. though probably aware of the general
truth that " what the soldier said is not evidence '",
does not know
or at any rate does not bear in mind, those rules regardmg contem-
porary record, corroboration, etc., which experience has taught us to
be necessary.
As regards the establishment of the facts, therefore, the plain man
needs guidance. As to the evaluation of the facts with reference to
the likehhood or otherwise of their being attributable to chance-
coincidence, I greatly doubt whether the ]Aan\ man of average
intelligence goes very far astray. It is the sort of problem which he
is constantly confronted with in his everyday life, and his success or
failure in life depends largely on the decisions he makes when so
confronted. I would, in fact, back his judgment against that of the
scientist, unless the scientist happens also to be a member of our
Society, because the plain man judges without any bias against the
paranormal explanation, and the specialised training of the scientist
tends to make him rely on criteria which may have no validity in
connection with our subject.
So with the non-statistical experiments reported in our Proceedings
and Journal. It is the fact that some of these were not conducted
under strict control conditions, reliance being placed (justly, in the
circumstances of the time) on the bona fides of the persons par-
ticipating in the experiment. The present generation, accustomed
as it is to breach of faith on a scale and in circumstances that our
fathers could hardly have imagined, naturally demands that
experiments should be framed in such a way that the issue of bona
fides does not arise. But on the issue of chance or non-chance,
which is an entirely separate one, the non-statistical ex^jeriments
seem to be as conclusive as any statistical experiments so far reported.
186 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May-June 1940
The case for statistical experiment should therefore, I suggest, not
be based on its supposed superiority over non-statistical work,
because in some respects it is inferior, that is to say, less informative,
but partly on the desirability of providing a particular type of
evidence making a special appeal to minds trained in particular
methods, and partly on the need for surveying the subject from as
many different angles as possible. It would seriously retard advance
in psychical research if spontaneous phenomena, when properly
observed and reported, and experiments not amenable to statistical
analysis, when conducted under good control conditions, were to be
regarded as either obsolete or as of secondary importance to the
statistical researches of Mr Carington, Mr Soal and Dr Hettinger,
which we all so greatly admire.
Yours, etc., W. H. Salter.
The Study of Psychic Experience
Sir,—I am not sure, in the midst of Mr Besterman's rather confused
attack, what he is really after. But I suspect that I have touched a
sore spot in suggesting that psychic research can do something more
than to continue in its old routine of collating and collecting (useful
as this is), and re-proving what has already been proved ad libitum
(if not ad nauseam) " beyond all reasonable doubt ". One cannot
build a house without stones. And, of course, the wider the choice
of them, the better. But to go on piUng stone on stone, even if
each be marked " Tested and approved " is to build, not a house but
a cairn under which lie ever more deeply buried the bones of creative
understanding. But before the material so piled up can be used, a
most (in Mr Besterman's view) unscientific process must take place,
in that the architect must produce from his subjective intuition
the concept of the house he wants to build. Only then does his
material justify itself and come alive.
In my opinion, the next step must be the unscientific (Mr Bester-
man) or meta-scientific (myself) step of approaching psychic
material from the viewpoint of experience-values, and trying to
understand the subjective psychological meaning of parapsycho-
logical happenings to the individual experiencing them. Academic
psychology opened up an interesting field. But it had no human,
as distinct from laboratory, value until it became Hnked with
subjective experience through Freud in the first place, Jung and
others afterwards. The same apphes to psychic research.
Yours, etc., Laurence J. Bendit.
May-June 1940 Reviews 187
REVIEWS
The Ultra-Perceptive Faculty. By J. Hettinger, Ph.D. Rider ;
pp. 204. 12s. 6d. net.
Whether we call it the Ultra-perceptive Faculty, or Extra-
sensory Perception, or non-sensory Cognition, or something \A^th
paranormal in it, we should all agree that Dr Hettinger has made a
valuable contribution to its study.
During his experiments, which covered the period from May 1934
to September 1937, Dr Hettinger had the constant advice of Prof.
Avehng, and on their completion the book was approved by the
University of London for the award of the degree of Ph.D., a further
welcome example of the present wilhngness of academic psychology
to recognise and assist serious experimental work in psychical
research.
The sensitives tested were two professional psychometric mediums
of good reputation. The objects used were of divers kinds, the only
stipulation being that they should have been in contact with the
" subjects ", that is the persons offering them for the experiments.
The subjects were never present at the sittuags, and the sensitives
did not know who they were. " As regards the articles, with very
few exceptions they were always enclosed in sealed envelopes and, in
the case of one of the sensitives, most of the tests Avere carried out
without her touching the envelopes." The presentation of each
object resulted in a " test ", and each statement made by the
sensitive during a test counted as an " item ". There were twelve
series of experiments ; the total number of tests, each generally
lasting an hour, was 623, and the total number of statements or
" items " given was 6631.
As the subject-matter of the items was free ", and the chance-
probability of any item being a hit could not be determined by the
simple process available when, e.g., a pack of playing cards is used,
Dr Hettinger had to devise a technique of objective statistical
assessment applicable to experiments of this kind. He tried various
types of matching, separately or by groups, the items given at one
test against those given at other tests, and invited his subjects to
say which items they accepted as applicable to themselves, all
knowledge as to which test the items were given in having, of course,
been kept from them. The diiferent methods are explained by the
author, whose conmaents on the pros and cons of each should be of
great help to other researchers faced with similar problems.
The two methods found most useful were (a) that of " admixed
control items " in which the subject was given a List composed, as to
188 Journal of Society for Psychical Research May-June 194C
half, of items given by the sensitive with reference to his object,
and, as to the other half, of items given by the sensitive on other
occasions ; and (6) the method of " paired items "',
in which each
item given by the sensitive with reference to one subject's object
was paired with a control item given with reference to another
subject. Under each method the subject was asked to indicate the
items which were substantially more applicable to him than the
others. For methods of matching to be objective, it is of course
essential that whoever arranges the grouping or pairing of the items
should have no knowledge which of them would be applicable to the
subject to whom the list is to be submitted. Dr Hettinger gives his
reasons for feeling satisfied on this head.
The scores so obtained were analysed by statistical methods with
the general nature of which psychical researchers are by now fairly
familiar. There is an analysis of each series of experiments and also
for the twelve series taken together, and these should be consulted
in the original text. Suffice it here to say that the analysis gave
significant results suggesting the possession of ultra-perceptive
powers by each of the two sensitives.
Interesting chapters are devoted to a classification of the subject-
matter of the items, e.g. emotions, actions, personal characteristics,
relationships, names, etc., and to a discussion of the time-factor,
that is, references to past, present and future events. The author
notes that several apparently veridical items related to events
occurring after the object had left the subject's possession, and
points out that this tells against a frequently held view, that in
psychometry the subject's experiences, while the object is in his
possession, are registered in the object by means of vibrations, which
the sensitive can later read. He did not find in the experiments any
substantial evidence for a paranormal pre-cognitive faculty.
Dr Hettinger considers that as " with very few exceptions the
items perceived were found to form part of the subject's psycho-
logical make-up at the time of the test ", telepathy is the most
plausible explanation, but that any theory of ultra-perceptive
cognition ought not to exclude clairvoyance. In psychometry the
object seems to play an essential part as a connecting link between
sensitive and subject, but how it does this the author admits he
cannot explain.
We look forward to the account of further experiments which,
we understand, Dr Hettinger will shortly be publishing.
W. H. S.
May-June 1940 Reviews 189
The Journal of Parapsychology
This Journal was originally started by Dr Rhine to constitute a
medium through which the results of experimentation in E.S.P. might
be reported and criticised. Dr Rhine has relinquished the editorship
and this is now in the hands of Dr Gardner Murphy of Columbia
University and Dr Bernard F. Riess of Hunter College, New York
City.
The December issue contains a long report of experiments by
Pratt and Woodruff designed to test (1) the reality of E.S.P. (2) the
effect of size of symbols (figures on the cards), (3) the effect of
" experience " of the subject, (4) the effect of newness of material.
Highly significant scoring was obtained which is claimed by the
authors to demonstrate the reality of E.S.P. Neither size of symbols
nor experience of subject appeared to have any direct relation with
the rate of scoring but subjects were found to score significantly
better with new material.
The conditions of the experiment are fully reported and great care
was taken to exclude the possibility of sensory clues, experimental
and recording errors. An elaborate system of checking was devised
in order that the charge of deception could not be sustained against
the experimenters and others concerned.
Contrary to the policy hitherto adhered to, the editors have pub-
lished an article dealing entirely with the theoretical side of the
subject. This has been contributed by 0. L. Reiser and is entitled
" Theory of Extra-sensory Perception ''.
There are four constituent
elements of the theory, viz. (1) Emergent Evolution, (2) Non-
Aristotelian Logic, (3) the notion of Psychic Levels, (4) Rehgious
Humanism.
The local time of a system is transposable across its parts but not
outside the system. If the system enters into relations with other
systems so as to form an organic whole, a new local time for that
organism emerges. This is an Emergent Dimension.
Aristotelian Logic and Newtonian Physics, which are founded
upon it, are inapplicable to an organismic world, their fundamental
assumptions are invalid and their time is an abstraction from
organismic time. The rigorous dichotomies, the point-particle aspect
is lost when a new organic whole emerges.
On the new psychic level attained by the organism fresh modes of
psychic interaction come into play ; thus E.S.P. may be regarded as
an emergent faculty. To quote from the article :
" Evolution is not
through with the human organism, for still higher functions remain
to be developed." " Humanity thus appears as a god in embryo, a
190 Journal of Society for PsycJiical Research May-June 1940
developing being with psychic powers—omniscience and omni-
jjresence—which man has hitherto assigned to God." This doctrine,
Dr Reiser says, is a form of humanism.
The object of this brief sketch is to indicate that Dr Reiser's
article merits a careful study by those wlio are interested in the
theoretical side of psychical research.
Kennedy and Uphoff contribute a study of Recording Errors and
arrive at the conclusion that these may, in large measure, be respon-
sible for extra-chance scoring. The antecedent positive or negative
belief of the recorder tends to produce increased and decreased
scores respectively.
An article by Greenwood entitled A Covariation Statistic
"
deals with the j^urely mathematical side.
H. F. S.
BOOKS RECEIVED
Alchemy Rediscovered and Restored. By A. Cockren. Rider
;
158 pp. 6s. net.
This Spiritualism. By Charles J. Seymour. Longmans ; 143 pp.
5s. net.
MR OLIVER GATTY
As the Journal goes to press we learn with deep regret of the
sudden death of Mr Oliver Gatty. An Obituary will be found in
the accompanying Part 162 of Proceedings.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only ". The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 567-568—Vol. XXXI. September-October 194(t
JOURNAL
OF THK,
Society for Psychical Research
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected on 30 September 1910)
Baynes, Dr H. Godwin, Reed House, Old Avenue, West Byfleet,
Surrey.
Gatty, Mrs Oliver, The Rectory, Much Hadham, Herts.
Maas, Waldo A., c/o Mrs Jones. The Priorv, King's Road, Colwyn
Bay. N. Wales.
Nesbitt, The Lady Faith, Hinchingbrooke. Huntingdon.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 169th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library on Wednesday, 24 April 1940, at 5.30 p.m., Sir Lawrence
Jones, Bart., in the Chair.
A paper entitled " Why I do l)elieve in Survival " was read by
m B. Abdy Collins.
[We regret that by an inadvertence no record of this Meeting'
appeared in the Journal for May-June 1940.]
OBITUARIES
We deeply regret to record the deaths of Sir J. J. Thomson, O.M.,
Master of Trinity College, Cambridge, a Vice-President of the Soc-
iety, and of Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., a Council member and former
President ; an obituary notice of both will be foimd in the Part of
Proceedings accompanying, also of Mr Nathaniel AA-'edd, Fellow of
King's College. Cambridge, and a very old member of the Society.
M
192 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Sept.-Oct. 1940'
SIR OLIVER LODGE'S " SEALED ENVELOPE "
As most of our members will know, Sir Oliver Lodge, several years
before his death, deposited with the Society a sealed envelope, with
instructions that it should not be opened until after his death, the
intention being that, if a communication in his name was received
through a medium, automatic writing, etc., and was found to corre-
spond with the contents of the sealed envelope, this would provide
evidence for survival by elimination, or at least great diminution,
of the risk of telepathy from a living mind. The intention of the
test would clearly be defeated, if the envelope were opened as soon
as any claim, however ill-founded, were made that a communication
relating to the contents had been received ; the Council accordingly
do not propose to be too hasty in opening the envelope.
They will be glad to accept the custody of any communication
which those who receive it believe to relate to the contents of Sir
Oliver's envelope, until such time as that is opened, and they would
suggest to intending depositors the following procedure. The com-
munication should be placed in an envelope on the outside of which
shoiild be written the date of receij)t, the name of the medium or
automatist and other relevant particulars, and this should be placed
inside a second envelope addressed to the Society. The officials of
the Society will thus have no knowledge of the nature of the com-
munication until Sir Oliver's envelope is opened, and a further step
Tvill have been taken towards carrying out the main object of the test.
CORRESPONDENCE
To the Editor of The Journal
Sir,—There are several points in the current Journal and Pro-
ceedings on which I should like to comment ; and I hope you will
allow me to do so, for convenience, in a single letter.
Eirst of all I want to add a brief tribute to the memory of Oliver
Gatty. I worked with him, during our investigation of Rudi
Schneider, for several hours every day for six months ; and the
personality that revealed itself then, and in later association, is one
I shall always consider it a privilege to have known. Oliver Gatty
appeared to have every gift : a brilliant, leaping mind, at once open
and sceptical, daring in its willingness to play wdth new ideas, but
cautious in not accepting them without the closest examination ;
the mental and physical energy which enabled him to acquire
Sept.-Oot. 1940 Corresjwndence 193
specialised knowledge in a wide range of interests ; an uproarious
sense of humour ; a gift for friendship ;
outstanding personal
charm. . . . There can seldom have been any young man so clearly
destined for great things. He died as he would have wished, as in
fact he did wish, fighting the things he hated, ugliness, cruelty and
intolerance.
^ ^ ^
I should like to correct a trifling lapse of memory by Mr Gibson
in the .Journal (p. 181). There is no report in The Divining-Rod of
any case in which a dowser has located water by working from a
map. Nor have I ever succeeded in obtaining good evidence of this
phenomenon. Published examples of this form of dowsing have
doubtful value owing to the unsatisfactory conditions under which
they took place. The dowser almost invariably sees the map which
he is using and normal map-reading is therefore not excluded.
Professor Broad writes {Proceedings, xlvi. 27) that experience shows
that a non-statistical report of a paranormal phenomenon " leaves
most plain men and scientists completely unmoved " (Dr Bendit,
please note). I would not lightly disagree with any dictum of Pro-
fessor Broad, even with the accent on the obiter, but I respectfully
submit that experience shows nothing of the sort. I go further than
Mr Salter {Joiirnal, pp. 184-5), for I do not think that the state-
ment is true even of most scientists. Everyone has met the
" scientist " who says, " I can't explain just how this was done,
but of course it must have been faked."' And I am sure that I
cannot be the only one who has heard a statistician say, " I can't
just put my finger on the flaw in these figures, but of course there
must be one." Even the ablest statistician knows himself capable
of serious slips in this tight-rope science (cp. successive editions of
statistical textbooks), and therefore feels himself justified in falling
back on undetected error if he is a determined or lazy sceptic, that
is, if he is typical. Such, at any rate, is my experience, and it is
also my experience that the only thing really capable of making
the average person sit up, be he plain man or scientist, is a good
knock-down " experience " of the natural history era. I do not
defend this attitude—it is most certainly unscientific—but I do
state it as a fact which the S.P.R. must take into account in framing
its research.
I have read Mr Carington's new report {Proceedings, xlvi. 34 ff.)
with the close attention so important a contribution deserves, and
I have been struck by an apparent omission from the admirably
minute description of his experimental procedure. Mr Carington
m2
194 Journal of Society for Psychical Research .Sept. -Oct. 1940
seems not to have told us what independent evidence he obtained,
as he undoubtedly did, for the display in his flat of given drawings
at given times. At present it seems to be open for a critic to suggest
that this vital factor rests on the testimony of Mr and Mrs Carington
alone. And as Mr Carington has taken so much trouble to devise
a fraud-proof technique I hoj^e he will think it worth while to add
this one corroborative detail.
Yours, etc., Theodore Besterman.
REVIEWS
Poltergeists. An Introduction and Examination followed by (iliosen
Instances : Saoheverell Sitwell, with decorations by Irene
Hawkins and silhouettes l^y Cruikshank. Fabers, pp. 419.
15s. net.
The Most Haunted Hovse in England. Ten Years' Investigation of
Borley Rectory. Harry Price. Longmans. Pp. vi + 255.
10s. 6d. net.
It is always a matter of interest to the Psychical Researcher when
his own area of activity is carefully explored by an author who has
gained distinction in other fields, and there is none of the many
departments of Psychical Research where such intervention is likely
to be as profitable as that relating to Poltergeists. Specialised
knowledge of physical phenomena, of what can be done by simula-
tion, and of the points where the testimony of untrained observers is
likely to be fallible, is indeed indispensable, and an author who is
not himself a Psychical Researcher must in these matters put his
faith in the expert. It may happen that some of his selected experts
are not worthy of the faith reposed in them. But in the investi-
gation of Poltergeists a correct judgment of psychological factors
is of the utmost importance, and this is a matter as to which a
writer with such wide human interests as Mr Sitwell shows is worthy
of attentive hearing.
" The method of this book," writes the author, " is as follows. We
begin with an Introduction dealing with many Poltergeist stories in
general. This is followed by the Examination of particular cases,
after which the Chosen Instances are printed. A Story, therefore,
which is discussed in the Examination will appear, narrated at full
length from the original sources, among our Chosen Instances."
This method offers several advantages. The reader with little or no
previous knowledge of the subject does not find himself plunged
Sept.-Oct. 1940 Reviews 195
suddenly into a mass of detailed narrative, the significant points of
whicli he cannot at that stage distinguish ; while the danger of
superficiality, inherent in any summarising of the original accounts,
is also avoided. Praise should also be given to the appropriately
fantastic drawings which enliven the book.
The Chosen Instances are divided into ten sections, two of them
being the classic Drummer of Tedworth, and the " Supernatural
Disturbances " at Epworth Rectory. For five out of the remaining
eight sections Mr Sitwell draws, with acknowledgments, on the
records of the S.P.R. We may congratulate him on making so good
a choice of instances, and ourselves on having been able to provide
so much of the raw material for this interesting book.
Before he has read many pages of the Introduction the reader will
have discovered that Mr Bitwell's delightful style is the appropriate
vehicle of an imaginative insight into the problem as a whole, which
is not at all incompatible with scholarly treatment of the records.
The significant features common to many reports of Poltergeists
are clearly indicated ; the scene a backwater of civilisation, the
manifestations (often but not always) centring round a child or
person of low intelligence, the traditional linkage between one
reported case and another, the resemblance of the phenomena to
those recorded in the trials of witches, not to mention the lives of
the Saints.
It is admitted that many of the minor phenomena are due to
trickery, but Mr Sitwell considers that some of the major incidents
cannot be explained in that way. In this view he has the support
of several Psychical Researchers of eminence, and there are un-
doubtedly some cases, mostly rather old cases, recorded by persons
who obviously were intent on telling the plain truth, and seemuig on
the face of them beyond explanation by normal means. The question
is, would their apparent supernormality have successfully stood
the challenge, had the events occurred at a time when the general
nature of Poltergeists was as well understood as it now is, and had
they been at once submitted to critical examination? It is notable
that ever since the days of the Lang-Podmore controversy (see
Proc. XII and XVII) the advocates of supernormality have largely
relied either on what must, in Psychical Research, be regarded as
pre-history, or on modern cases where either the accuracy or the
critical power of the recorders is open to suspicion. Modernity is
not everything : some modern records compare very unfavourai^ly
for candour and completeness with, e.g., those of the disturbances in
the Wesley household.
As to the purpose behmd these incidents Mr Sitwell cpiite correctly
196 journal of Society for Psychical Uesearch Sept.-Oct. 1940
points out that they are not mere innocent childish pranks designed
to amuse . The intention is to mystify, or even terrify, the household
and neighbours, and where a subnormal person, child or adult, is the
focus of the disturbances, an ulterior purpose, to magnify that person
and compensate him (or, more often, her) for the subnormality, can
usually be inferred. It is an unpleasant business admittedly, but the
evidence for invoking, as Mr Sitwell does, some mahgn external
agency is not very strong.
Borley Rectory, now gutted l)y fire, has been the scene of one of
the most interesting " haimts " of our time, well deserving thorough
investigation and record. Mr Price had the good fortune to be called
in at a critical stage, and later to have the building for a year
(19 May, 1937, to 1938) under his exclusive control.
The peculiar features of the Borley case are that, prior to Mr
Price's tenancy in 1937, the Rectory, built in 1863, had been
haunted during its occupation by fom- incumbents, the last of whom
left in 1935, and that in 1929, shortly after the third incumbent had
been inducted, the nature of the phenomena radically changed.
During the first two incumbencies, that of the Rev. Henry Bull,
who built the Rectory, and his son " Harry " Bull, there had
lieen no certainly objective phenomena.^ Apparitions were seen,
notably a "Nun" ; and footsteps, human and animal, and other
noises were heard. Of the " Nun " Mr Price writes "It is quite
certain that this figure, seen first by four persons simultaneously,
was objective. It Avas solid, like a human being : not a subjective
image, a phantasm, or figment of the imagination." But neither
the appearance of solidity, nor collective perception can be
regarded as tests of objectivity ; at any rate they were not so
regarded by the authors oi Phantasms of the Living or the signatories
of the Report on the Census of Hallucinations, who were entitled
to speak with authority. The pattering of feet, etc. are typical of
su])jective illusions or hallucinations.
In course of time a romantic, but quite unhistoric, legend grew up,
of a novice who had broken her vows, and after an unsuccessful
elopement with a lay lirother in a coach and pair, had been immured
in the convent walls. The " coach " was in due course seen by two
percipients. It would have been of great interest, and of assistance
in judging the " objective " phenomena which happened later, if the
1 It is not clear from the text (p. 45) and Appendix F, when the ringing
of bells mentioned on p. 45 occurred. Whatever the date, it was presuma})ly
objective, but without further evidence should not be assiuned to be wuper-
normal.
Sept.-Oct. 1940 Reviews 197
reader liad been given a full statement, with, dates, showing the
growth of the legend and the sequence of the phenomena relating to
it. It is of the utmost importance in cases of recurrent phantasms,
visual or auditory, to trace with great precision the time and circum-
stances of the first occurrence, and to show to what extent the later
percipients were aware of the earher percipients' experiences. In the
particular case of Borley it may be inferred that the occurrences
were public property in the neighbourhood from the start, but who
started it all, and what was his or her mental condition?
Mr Price states (p. 74) " that not one of the Bull family ... is
concerned with psychical research or spiritualism, or knows any-
thing of the subject ", but this is contradicted by the statement
on p. 25 that the Rev. Hemy Bull used to retire to a small
summerhouse in the early morning to " commune with the
spirits". From this and other passages it is evident that the
atmosphere of the Bull household at Borley was strongly spiritual-
istic from the beginning, and highly favourable to the occurrence
of hallucinations due to suggestion. This should be borne in mind
in considering the many incidents related on the testimony of the
Bulls, their servants and neighbours.
The third incumbent, the Rev. G. E. Smith, entered into occupa-
tion in 1928, and soon after an enterprising journahst called in Mr
Price. It was at this stage that the haunt changed its nature :
Poltergeist activities which, whether supernormal or not, A^'ere
certainly objective, became the leading feature. Mr Price had the
good fortune to be present when the first of these occurred. A
month later Mr Smith left the Rectory, a large ill-arranged building,
expensive and inconvenient to maintain, but the phenomena still
continued. In 1930 Mr Smith ceased to be Rector, the Rev. L. A.
Foyster, a cousin of the Bulls, was appointed, and he and Mrs Foyster
took up residence. To Mrs Foyster, a young woman accustomed to
life in a holiday town on the South Coast, the change to the lonely
barracks of Borley Rectory must have seemed very dreary.
Poltergeist phenomena continued unabated, and included sup-
posedly supernormal writings addressed to Marianne ", Mrs
Foyster's christian name. In October 1931 Mr Price was again
called in, and brought with him a party including two members of
the S.P.R., Mrs Goldney and Miss May Walker. They experienced
various incidents, all of which occurred when Mrs Foyster " was
not within our sight or mider our control ", and the following
morning they informed her husband that she could have produced
all the manifestations normally. Mrs Foyster " stoutly denied that
she was in any A\'ay responsiljlc, and wc accepted her word. The
198 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Sept.-Oct. 1940
Eector pointed out that every occupant of the Rectory since the
place was built had been similarly accused—which was correct ".
It is to be regretted that nowhere in the book does Mr Price
thoroughly tackle the question of trickery. The phenomena
occurring during the first two incumbencies were, as we have seen,
subjective, and call for no explanation beyond morbid imaguiation
and suggestive hallucination. But many of the later phenomena
were of the kind that, alike in the seance-room and in Poltergeist
cases, have often been simulated. That any single individual was
responsible for them all is improbable, but that does not dispose of
the question. Mr Price ends a chapter headed " Can the phenomena
be explained? " with the words "that hypothesis [i.e. the spirit
hypothesis] is immensely strengthened by these phenomena, if they
are genuine ". Does Mr Price think they were genuine, or not?
Which, if any, does he consider genuine? After ten years' investi-
gation he ought to be able to enlighten his readers.
The Foysters left in 1936 and the new Rector decided to live in
the other parish, with which Borley was now amalgamated. Borley
Rectory thus became vacant, and was rented by Mr Price for a year
(May 1937 to May 1938). Seldom, if ever, can a Psychical Researcher
have had such a magnificent opportunity in his grasp, and never,
surely, was such an opportunity so pitifully wasted. What addition
to our knowledge might not have resulted if the persons invited to
investigate this house, with its long history of recurrent phenomena
of many kinds, had been Psychical Researchers of standing, with
exijerience in investigating both hallucinatory phantasms and the
physical phenomena of the Seance room, and not a random collec-
tion of B.B.C. officials and others whose publicity value notably
exceeded their usefulness as investigators of a difficult case? In
the long list (Appendix E) of " Official Observers and others . . .
who witnessed phenomena or alleged phenomena and omitting
Mr Price himself, the only persons named who have any standing in
Psychical Research are Mrs Goldney and Miss Walker, who visited
the Rectory in 1931 and not, it would appear, during the year when
Mr Price had exclusive control of it.
After Mr Price's tenancy expired the house was bought by a lay-
man, and occupied by him till its destruction by fire in February
1939. On 27 March 1938 Miss Cllanville (a collateral descendant,
it is said, of the author of Saducismiis Triuinphaias) received a plan-
chette message, whicli Ijegan :
" Sunex Amures and one of his men
[indistinct] MEAN TO BURN THE RECTORY to-night at 9
o'clock . .
." The Rectory was in fact burnt at midnight eleven
months later, through the owner carelessly upsetting an oil lamp.
Sept.-Oct. 1940 Reviews 199
At first this reads lilce a parody of Mr Dunne in liis less evidential
moods, but apparently Mr Price takes it, or intends the reader to take
it, as a serious instance of prediction.
Particular attention should be called to the footnote on p. 192.
" Since the above was written, there has been established (January
1940) at Trinity College, Cambridge, a studentship in Psychical Re-
search—the first of its kind in any British University. My twenty-
years fight for academic recognition is at last bearing fruit. H. P."
It is always of interest to learn the true history of important
events from their authors, but possibly the facts that three of the
Society's principal founders were fellows of Trinity, that for nineteen
out of the Society's fifty-eight years of membership the Presidency
has been held by Trinity men and that for the last twenty years the
Mastership of the College has been held by a Vice-President of the
Society, may have in some measure contributed to the happy result.
W. H. S.
The Meclmmship of Jack Webber. By Harry Edwards. Pp. 119.
London : Rider & Co. (1940.) Price 12s. 6d.
It is not ea.sy to know how to review this book. It is in no sense
a scientific publication but consists of a collection of stories, incidents
and anecdotes where the principal role is played by one John Boaclen
Webber (" Jack Webber "), a public medium, who has recently died
and in whose presence alleged physical phenomena have been
reported.
The mediumship is of a type familiar to all psychical researchers.
There are " ectoj^lasmic
'"
arms and voice boxes : apports ;
trum^^et
manifestations ;
l)reakings of furniture, materializations : levita-
tions ;
and so on. Among the more striking phenomena was the
removal of the medium's jacket when his hands and arms were
secured by rope to the arms of his chair ; and more striking still
the removal of the same jacket when his hands were held, or rather
were said to be held, by members of the audience.
Since there is not a single detailed or scientific description of any
sitting in the book, criticism or appraisal of the material is not
possible. The l^eliever in these manifestations will continue to
believe and have his belief strengthened : the imbeliever will still
remain unconvinced. Probably the best attitude for the critical
psychical researcher to adopt is to remain critical and observant of
the little that can be observed. Even if the photographs repro-
duced in this book show no supernormal phenomena they show at
least one thing, namely, the uselessness of using one length of rope
200 Journal of Society for Psychical Research RErT.-OcT. 1940
to tie up a medram. Plates 3, 4, 5, 6 and 12 all show clearly the
process by which slack can be taken np and the hands freed.
Although this has been pointed out to spiritualists for over half a
century it still falls on deaf ears. One encouraging feature is, how-
ever, to be noted. Ectoplasm is becoming stronger. In the case
of Frau Silbert even the glance of the himian eye was detrimental.
But with Jack Webber the material could be handled, and on one
occasion two sitters had to be asked to arrange its folds so that it
could be photographed. Indeed sometimes it had to be unravelled
to " open it out ", but none of these operations seems to have helped
us in knowing anything about it. It is described as hke silk of rich
quality, wet toy balloon rubber and thin seaweed. Evidently true
to type it changes its appearance and texture just as it did with
Eva C. and Margery. The reader can put what interpretation he
likes upon this fact. The evidence for a decision does not exist.
So we are back almost where we started. The will o' the wisp has
jumped another hedge. E. J. D.
This Sjnritualisni. Results of an Inquiry. By Charles J. Seymour.
(Longmans, Green & Co.) 1940.
I confess that, when I first read the title of this little book of 143
pages, this " this " misled me. I supposed it implied a sceptical
or perhaps sarcastic attitude on the author's part. I was mistaken :
" THIS SPIRITUALISM " is a beUever's work.
This believer seems to see the chief value of Spiritualism in the
fact that, according to him, it affords us the proof that the Universe
" makes sense ". "A man ", so Mr Seymour supposes, " desires to
render service and to be creative. He spends his life fashioning
himself into a tool for those ends." And then suddenly, " the instru-
ment into which he has forged himself is—according to the material-
ists—destroyed." The author thinks such a case " repugnant, an
outrage on the intellect, because it is so wasteful, so blundering bad
management "
(p. 38). Well, Spiritualism reveals to us that the
" Creator continues to use us "
(p. 39) even after our death. I am
not convinced that Mr Seymour's reasoning is a sound one. The
Universe, he considers, " must make sense ". But why, I wonder,
should this " sense " agree with our preconceived notions? There
may be in the Cosmos a " sense ", a meaning altogether different
from these notions and to us quite inaccessible. (Here I fancy I
hear a cynic muttering : "Or perhaps no meaning at all.") Apart
from this, do not events but too real, abound around us, which, from
our standpoint, are perfectly non-sensical and for which no hypo-
Sept. -Oct. 1940 Reviews 201
thesis of a post-mortem existence, activity, retribution and what not
will atone? How about, e.g., the complete destruction, by accident
or otherwise, of a splendid work of art, on which decades of labour
had been wasted, or of some new ingenious scientific appliance, per-
haps pregnant with countless blessings for mankind, on which in-
finite labour and skill had been equally lavished? How about the
death of an inventor of genius on the eve of the day when he was
about to reveal his secret to the world, a secret which is to die with
him? Are not such facts also non-sensical? And in what way does
Spirituahsm, or indeed any other doctrine postulating survival,
explain away the seeming absurdity of such facts?
Every time, Mr Seymour also thinks, " there had been really
thorough investigation for a sufficient period, with a sufficient
number of mediums, the [Spiritualistic] phenomena were almost
invariably accepted as facts "
(p. 22). Such an assertion is much
too sweeping—seeing that such investigations have repeatedly taken
place—and yet to-day, nearly a century after the "'
Hydesville
knockings ", not a single physical phenomenon of Spiritualism en-
joys scientific acceptance. Nor is the situation much different so
far as such phenomena as telepathy and clairvoyance are concerned.
Again and again, we seem to grasp something substantial, only to
find ourselves once more before one more disappointment, one more
vanished phantasm.
In justice to our author, let us add that his own researches embrac-
ing several years and undertaken by him in the beginning in a rather
sceptical state of mind seem to have brought about results much
more satisfactory—to him. But may not this be due to the fact
that he has contented himself with criteria and tests to which to
some of us will und oubtedly appear inadequate ? He narrates some
experiments and some incidents at which he was present (chiefly at
private and public sittings with professional clairvoyants and clair-
voyantes), and I admit that a few of these look impressive in his
accoimt. On the other hand, there must be so many possibiUties of
fraud and collusion at some of these sittings that one hesitates to
arrive at a positive conclusion. But what I wish especially to ]3ro-
test against is attaching any importance to the mention by the
mediums of such Christian names as William, John, Mary, etc.,
without any more precise definition—very likely in the hope that
one at least of such names will be sure to " fit ". By the way, has
it not been repeatedly asserted of late that " spirits " may feel
especial difficulty in recollecting names? If so, how are we to
reconcile such assertions with the strings of names presented by
clairvoyant mediums at public seances? I am afraid " difficulties
"
202 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Sei-t.-Uct. 1940
begin here only when names are asked for as tests : surely a discon-
certing detail.
A special chapter is devoted by the author to Prophecy and
Deduction and the painful admission is made in it that the so-
called " spirit guides " failed egregiously in predicting that there
would be no Avar following on the " trouble '"
in September 1939>
And yet such assertions had been made as confidently then as in
1938; when we had IVIr Chamberlain's " flights " and then—Munich.
Being obviously of an optimistic turn of mind, Mr Seymour does not
apparently reject the invigorating hypothesis that the " erroneous
judgments " formed in 1939 " on the other side " may have been
not an error but a " design, to weed the movement of its philan-
derers and faint-hearts and to save it from its enthusiastic publicity
go-getters "
(p. 101). For my part I prefer to see in the spirit
guides' discomfiture one more proof of the fact—a fact established
it seems to me by the whole history of humanity—that whatever
be the case with man's alleged other supernormal faculties, he has
NOT that of suj)ernormally foreseeing the future. Genuine premoni-
tions in the strict sense of the word do not seem to me to exist at
all. Supposing they did, nothing would be easier than to prove their
reality beyond all possibility of cavil. This has never been done.^
It is curious to note that Mr Seymour is a believer in reincarna-
tion (p. 93). I thought Anglo-Saxon believers in reincarnation
rarae ares. Another curious feature is that Mr Seymour thinks
reincarnation can be chosen—surely an attractive jsrospect—though
I do not well see on what grounds he bases his belief.
It is characteristic that in a book dealing infer alia with various
aspects of the " future life " and " written by a professed Christian ",
the word " Hell " does not appear once. This I think distinctly
illogical on the part of such a Christian, but nevertheless significant,
because showing the present discredit of the Gehenna doctrine.
Were I to sum up the impression produced on me by Mr Seymour's
little book, I would say that it has been written by a man who is
sincere, by no means hy|iercritical. but not devoid of literary
aliility, and th;it some of the theoretical disquisitions it contains are
interesting. It contains also a certain number of concrete observa-
tions. Of these, however, I am sorry to add, but to few. if not to
very few, can any objective importance be attached.
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
1 ( )n the other hand, if jsrevision of the future really exists, the most striking
instance is surely afforded by the Seventy Weeks' prophecy in Chapter 9 of
Daniel. I am quite ready to postulate a fortuitous coincidence, but it is-
sufficiently remarkable.
No. 669-570.
—
Vol. XXXI. November-December
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NEW MEMBBE
Elected 2 December 1940
Librarian, New College, Oxford.
A NEW KESEARCH FUND
In Sei^tember 1940 Mrs Silvia Blennerhassett, the daughter of
F. W. H. Myers, settled a fund, to be known as the Blennerhassett
Research Fund, on trusts the nature of which, and the unusual
terms in which they are declared, will be of interest to our Members.
The Fund is to be at the disi^osal of the Council of the Society for
the purposes of
" Investigation and pubhc or private explanation of the results
" thereof on any of the subjects dealt with in F. W. H. Myers's
" Human Personality or any other subject which is in the opinion
" of the majority of the Council for the time being of the Society
" closely related thereto such investigation or explanation being
conducted '
without prejudice or j^repossession of any kind in
the spirit of exact and unimpassioned enquiry ' (to quote the
" original statement of the objects of the S.P.R. of which F. W. H.
" Myers was a founder) but not necessarily on orthodox academic
" lines. It is especially desired by the Settlor (without imposing
" any trust) that novel lines of enquiry should be opened up and
" that the conclusion of Prof. H. H. Price's Presidential Address for
" 1939-1940 should be borne in mind :
'
We may safely predict that
'"it will be the timidity of our hypotheses and not their extrava-
gance which will provoke the derision of posterity.' The right
" to pay the fees and expenses of a lecturer or to subsidise the
" pubhcation of a book on any of these subjects is intended to be
" covered by this expression of the purposes of the Settlor."
204 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov.-Dec. 1940
In the event of the S.P.R. ceasing to exist the fund is to be .
transferred to New College, Oxford, for the promotion of psychical
research. Although our Members will hope that the contingency
on which the transfer is to be made will never be fulfilled, they will
be gratified to learn that the College has accepted the trust. The
acceptance^ coming so soon after the institution of the Perrott
Studentship at Trinity College, Cambridge, is welcome as further
evidence of the recognition in academic circles of the value of the
Society's work.
The Council have decided that the first investigation to be
conducted under the Trust should be into Precognition, a subject
frequently referred to in Human Personality. For this purpose
they have appointed a Committee under the Chairmanship of the
President.
SIR OLIVER LODGE'S BOOKS AND PAPERS
Sir Oliver Lodge's family have very generously presented to the
Society several valuable l)ooks relating to psychical research from
his library and also various papers on the same subject.
On learning the acceptance by New College, Oxford, of the
Blennerhassett Trust, they presented his complete set of S.P.R.
Proceedings and Journal to the College Library, which is, we are
informed, the first College Library at Oxford to possess a set.
The Librarian of the College has now become a member, so that
future issues will find a place on the Library shelves.
PERROTT STUDENTSHIP IN PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
Mr W. Whately Carington has been appointed by Trinity
College, Cambridge, to the Perrott Studentship in Psychical Re-
search. Particulars of this foundation were given in the Part of
Proceedings published last March (Vol. XLIV, p. 23). Mr Whately
Carington has already commenced his duties. The selectors and Mr
Carington are alike to be congratulated.
PARANORMAL COGNITION
Some Comments on Mr Carington's and Mr Soal's Recent
Experimental Results
It is seldom wise to leap from experimental facts to speculations,
before the meaning of the facts has been fully established, and their
validity confirmed by further experiment if this is possible. But
Nov.-Dec. 1940 Paranormal Cognition 205
some speculation is usually needed in trying to interpret the facts ;
and some construction and hypothesis is advisable in order to see
what kind of interpretation should be put to the test of further
experiment. The facts elicited by Mr Carington and Mr Soal, in
applying the same method of investigation to the results of two
quite different experiments in paranormal cognition/ appear to have
a meaning which concerns the way we perceive events in relation to
time. It may be useful to explore this question briefly, and as simply
as possible, with the idea of seeing what behaviour of the human
mind we have to take into account, and to encourage by well-adapted
conditions, if we are to consolidate and extend this experimental
field.
The facts with which we are concerned are that subjects in Mr
Carington's and Mr Soal's experiments showed apparent ability to
perceive drawings or patterns not within reach of their normal senses,
and to perceive them not at the time when they were presented (if
one may speak of the " presentation " of an object when it is not
displayed to the known senses), but at times before or after their
presentation. With Mr Carington's subjects, a drawing " dis-
played " in a locked and empty room on, say, a Wednesday, appears
to have been paranormally perceived on the Tuesday or the Thurs-
day. With two of Mr Soal's subjects the unseen card-pattern pre-
sented at 2.45 appears to have been paranormally perceived at, say,
2.44 or 2.46. In both cases the perception was registered at a time
when another drawing or card was the expected object of para-
normal attention.
There are two wide differences between Mr Carington's experiments
and Mr Soal's. and one notable difference between their results.
The interval of time between the presentations is of the order of
twenty-four hours in the first case and of a minute or less in the
second. Also, Mr Carington's subjects were encouraged to try for
impressions, and to record them by drawing, in conditions of isola-
tion and quiet. Mr Soal's technique required the presence and the
activities of an experimenter and a recorder. One subject of his,
criticising the technique in discussion after a Private Meeting of the
Society, reported that she had had a strong feeling of distraction
through these activities, especially from the use of the rubber stamp ;
and others, if less conscious of distraction, will presumably not have
been immune from its effects.
Both these differencies in the conditions, the much longer time-
interval between attempts at perception and the absence of particu-
lar distractions in Mr Carington's experiment as compared with Mr
1 Proc. Vol. XLVI. p. 34 et seq. (Part 162, June 1940).
206 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov.-Dec.1940
Seal's, could kave contributed to the one main difference in the
results—that the paranormal effect appears to occur with Mr
Carington's subjects in general, but with only two of Mr Seal's sub-
jects. These two may be " white blackbirds ", in Professor Broad's
phrase, in respect of paranormal cognition ; or their perceptive-
cognitive faculty may be less easily knocked off its focus around a
particular point in time than is the case with Mr Soal's other
subjects. The results cannot show whether these others had a para-
normal faculty which was completely unfocused and diffused in the
given conditions, or whether they should be classed as black black-
birds.
It is worth while to consider what we mean by a " focus in time ".
This is a metaphor from optics and from the eyesight, whose focus
is a concentration at and around a point in space. But the eyesight,
like all the physical senses, has a necessary concentration at and
around a moment in time—the changing " now " at which our
physical organism reacts with its environment. We must say " at
and around " a moment in time, because instantaneous reaction is
not thinkable, and experiments in physiology have shown that a
stimulus must have a given duration to produce any sensory effect.
Mr Saltmarsh has studied this bit of time at and around the apparent
moment of sensory reaction, and discussed it under the name of
" the specious present ".^ He shows ground for supposing that sub-
liminal perception has, so to say, a wider spread in time than con-
scious perception, and that this makes sense with the fact that
paranormal cognition seems to find its stimuli more " around " and
less " at " the percipient's present moment than does ordinary sense-
perception. He suggests that at the subliminal levels which are
more remote from consciousness this time-spread may become very
wide, and that this conception may make sense of the evidence for
an emergence into present consciousness of direct cognitions of past
and future event. (We can avoid the bogy of a fixed future by re-
membering that " cognition of an event " is more completely de-
scribed as the formation of an image which represents the idea of
an event. It could equally be called the cognition of a probability.)
If we adopt Mr Saltmarsh's xiseful way of thinl-cing, Mr Carington's
and Mr Soal's results suggest that something interferes with their
subjects' aim of getting a correct impression of the drawing or
pattern which is " now " presented for paranormal cognition, and
makes this impression less likely to emerge than the image of a past
or future presentation. The effect might be due simply to distrac-
tion. We have noticed that a difference of timing and technique
"Proc. Vol. XXXIX, pp. 170-172.
Nov.-Dec. 1940 Paranormal Cognition 207
makes for more distracting elements in Mr Soal's experiments than
in Mr Carington's, and that this difference goes with a difference in
the number of subjects who seem to get positive results—for what
this observation may be worth. Mr Seal's valuable discovery that
when, in the chance distribution of cards, the same pattern is pre-
sented both immediately before and immediately after a given
" now ", the subject making his guess at the " now " shows a
reinforced tendency to hit the neighbouring mark,^ is also compatible
with the view that the " now " impression is confused by the com-
petition of the more vivid sensory impressions occurring at the same
"now".
But there are also sensory impressions of the same vividness to
confuse matters at the preceding and the subsequent " now ". To
explain the effect in terms of distraction, we have to explain how it
may be that paracognitive impressions are confused by sensory
impressions from the same " now ", while a paracognitive impression
presumably arising from a " then " can emerge relatively undis-
turbed by distractions arising in the " now " in which the emergence
occurs. We can say that the " then " impression and the " now
"
sensory distractions, though coming into consciousness together, are
mental reports of impacts which in fact occurred with an interval of
time to separate them, and that the mind is naturally better able to
discriminate between successive than between simultaneous impacts.
This might cover the ground ; but there seems to be need for such
a further hypothesis as Mr Soal's, that a personified subliminal per-
cipient " knows " whether an impression is correctly rendered at the
conscious level,^ and has autonomous reactions of its own which have
to be taken into account. There is, of course, plenty of evidence for
such autonomous fractions of the personality.
We have observed that in Mr Carington's cases, which first dis-
closed the preferential emergence of " then " impressions in a
" now " context, the time-sequence of presentations is much more
leisurely—the " then " much further separated from the " now "
—
than in Mr Soal's cases. Using Mr Saltmarsh's hypothesis, we can
probably infer that in the relative absence of sensory distractions,
and having time to burn, Mr Carington's subjects were able to relax
their time-focus to a much greater extent, so as to employ fairly
consistently a subhminal " specious present " reaching about
twenty-four hours in either direction. (Mr Soal's examination of
results shows no significant success of " then " impressions separated
by more than about a minute from the " now ".) It seems natural
that conditions of greater mental relaxation should give more
1 Proc. Vol. XLVI, p. 187 et seq. = he. cit. p. 193.
208 Journal of Society for Psycliical Research Nov.-Dec. 1940
chance for average performers among the percipients to bring posi-
tive results into consciousness, but should not favour " peak
"
performances such as those of Mr Soal's two successful subjects.
These two can easily be regarded as working under higher tension/
imposed by the conditions—a tension which, if successfully main-
tained, would produce the natural results of keyed-up effort.
It should be worth while, if the experiments prove to be repeatable
(our ignorance of what factors constitute " conditions " is such that
we never can tell), to try out the effects of different degrees of re-
laxation on the part of percipients, and of greater or less exclusion
of sensory stimuli. The two factors of tension and of sensory dis-
traction appear to be the simplest and the most controllable of those
which can be varied within the field of " conditions ".
The experimenters themselves, knowing their own ground inch
by inch after long and careful working over it, have a far better right
than any outside commentator to sit back and speculate ; these few
and somewhat obvious comments, however, may perhaps be regarded
as appreciative and congratulatory rather than intrusive.
A SCHEME FOR FURTHER EXPERIMENT BY MEMBERS
We draw the attention of members to the following offer by Mr
Carington of further opportunity for experiment in the Paranormal
Cognition of Drawings :
The greatest forward step that could be made in this subject
would be the devising of a satisfactory form repeatable experiment.
I believe I am on the track of this ; but unfortunately the effect to
be detected is very slight, so that the experimentation necessary to
demonstrate it is too extensive and prolonged for a single experi-
menter to undertake in existing circumstances.
Co-operative effort seems to be indicated, and I have accordingly
devised a technique which will, I hope, enable numerous relatively
small contributions to be combined together. The procedure, which
is very fairly flexible, can be used with one or more percipients
(though, naturally, the more the better), but for the best results two
separate experiments should be carried out with an interval of two
or three weeks between them. Each experiment can be condensed
into about an hour's work if desired.
The requisite forms, etc., with full instructions, can be obtained
from me at the address given below, and I very much hope that as
'Not that they would be likely to show "signs of tension"—-which are
often signs of failure to maintain a fully co-ordinated effort.
Nov.-Dec. 1940 Correspondence 209
many members as possible will attempt the experiment. In writing,
please give tlie approximate mmiber of percipients it is hoped to
employ.
Whately Carington
Seistnen Cove,
Cornwall.
CORRESPONDENCE
PARANORMAL COGNITION OF DRAWINGS
Sir,—In reply to Mr Besterman's letter in the last issue of the
•
Journal, I have no corroboration, other than that of my wife, for
my statements that particular drawings were displayed on particular
occasions. I did not regard these experiments, and do not propose
to regard others of the same kind in future, as tests or demonstra-
tions of my wife's or my own veracity : moreover, to have sought
independent corroboration would have opened the door to just that
possibility of leakage which I was most anxious to avoid. I can
declare with complete assurance that I myself gave no hint as to the
nature of the originals used, and with negligibly less that my wife
did not ; but I should hesitate to say the same of any third party of
whose contacts, activities and conversations I might have but little
knowledge.
Apart from this, and as a matter of principle, I should not have
done anything about it, even if the ingenious method of falsifying
the results, which Mr Besterman's letter suggests, had occurred to
me. In the absence of any positive antecedent evidence of charla-
tanry, I fail to see why anyone performing experiments of this
character should ipso facto be more suspect of dishonesty than any
other investigator, and to encourage the supposition that he is,
seems to me inimical to the best interests of the subject.
;
'
Yours, etc.,
\ Whately Carington.
i
" This Spiritualism
"
Sir,—May I respectfully point out that Count Perovski-Petrovo-
Solovovo's review seems to miss the point of Mr Seymour's argu-
ment? In it he cites the apparent accidents and waste in human life
as reasons for rejecting the belief in human survival. Mr Seymour
considers that apart from this assurance of survival there is no clue
to the meaning of life as we experience it ; but he claims that, if
survival is a fact, we can accept the poet Keats' conclusion that this
210 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov.-Dec. 1940
world is a " vale of soul making ", the otherwise inexplicable ex-
periences of this mortal hfe can be viewed as a training for further
development of human souls after death ; and the principle of
evolution which science has shown to be dominant in this world
is seen to be a cosmic principle, governing not matter only, but
mind and personality. Those who recognise this principle as an
essential element in the age-long process of the whole Universe,
applicable to every smallest part as completely as it is to the great
whole, will not let themselves be limited by illusive appearances
which seem to truncate the process in human existence. They will
boldly apply the principle with the continuity it involves to every
fraction of vital organisms and especially to the highest intelligent
being known to us—the human.
Helen Alex. Dallas
EEVIEWS
Why I do believe in Survival. By B. Abdy Collins, CLE. 28 pp.
Is. net.
Tliis paper, read to a Private Meeting of the Society on 24 April
1940, has been privately issued by the author, with a Preface criti-
cising the attitude of the Society in rejecting the paper for publica-
tion in its Proceedings and in remaining umesponsive when Mr
Colhns " asked to be informed which cases were open to this criti-
cism " (as to evidential quality) " in order that I might either omit
them or substitute others, which would be accepted ". It may be
remarked that the Committee of Reference, to whose members any
paper which is offered to Proceedings is circulated for their opinion
on its suitability for such publication, cannot so easily be expected
to collaborate with authors in bringing their work up to its standards;
and that the Hon. Secretary came up to London to discuss the
paper with its author, and made some suggestions which were not
in fact accepted. But we are concerned rather with the undoubted
interest of Mr Collins's treatment of the evidence for survival,
regarded more as a subject for discussion than as a ground of
formulated statement. Some comment, at all events, may be not
inappropriate from the one officer of the Society who was free to
attend the Private Meeting at which Mr Collins eventually read his
paper (his preface records his impression that no officer of the
Society was present), and, as it happens, an ofhcer who has known
the experience of presenting work to the Society which was dis-
criminatingly adjudged to be suitable for discussion at a Private
N6v.-Dec. 1940 Reviews 211
Meeting rather than for record in Proceedings as a judgment on
evidence.
Professor E. E,. Dodds, in his paper Why 1 do not Believe in Sur-
vival, 1 had given his reasons not so much for rejecting a prevalent
human beUef as for preferring a presumably more economical hy-
pothesis of telepathy between the living to that of telepathy from
the dead—the presumption to be justified being that it is the more
economical hypothesis to regard evidence for survival as bringing
into play a particularly complex and specially developed form of
telepathy between the living. These hypotheses, he has more
recently suggested, constitute a " staggering dilemma " presented
by the evidence.^ Mr Collins claims in effect, but really argues the
point only in a brief passage near the end of his Appendix, that the
hypothesis of survival and communication involves tlie lesser
miracle.
Mr Collins is concerned with evidence of identity. " In sittings
with mediums, I don't want to prove whether the communicator
survives. I know he survives. I only want him to prove his
identity." Professor Dodds made a point of the lack of such evi-
dence, in two and a half millennia of man's recorded history. It
could be answered that man had little care for experimental evi-
dence, as we understand it, before the time of Galileo, and none for
formal evidence of survival until the beginnings of psychical research
in the latter part of the last century. Mr Collins cites a number of
incidents reported in bygone days which are evidence of belief in
survival and in the identity of apparitions, but that is another
matter ; he was unwary in accepting Professor Dodds's groimd of
objection. And it appears throughout the paper that Professor
Dodds's grounds of argument, where they would most repay dis-
cussion and question, are left unregarded, while more and more
evidence is thrown into the survivalist scale of a type which the
critic finds little difficulty in demolishing piecemeal. The critic may,
of course, share Mr Collins's convictions while feeling that he does
not treat evidence scientifically : especially, that he treats it as
necessarily pointing to the conclusions which he has assumed.
Apart from cases of communication Mr Collins argues, as is
reasonable, from the evidence for paranormal faculties in man to the
conclusion that these are not attributes of a creature limited to in-
carnate existence ; but he adds to the presumable properties of man
the " etheric body " and its aptitude for travelling in space. This
may be a respectable hypothesis, though probably a crude hypo-
thesis, to simplify the problem of apparent action at a distance be-
iProc. Vol. XLII., p. 147. ^Proc. Vol. XLV., p. 295.
212 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov-Dec. 1940
tween agent and percipient, but it is a physical hypothesis for which
no physical evidence is established, and its adoption as a fact only
burdens the desired proof of survival with more material for critical
disbelief. It is not merely " the fashion among those engaged in
psychical research to ignore " phenomena suggesting a travelling
etheric body : the evidence in various fields, including medicine and
psychology, shows that the mind fairly readily forms non-factual
images and impressions of bodily location. These are easy to induce
under hypnosis.
Mr Collins is perhaps on his strongest ground when he sub-
ordinates mediumistic and experimental evidence of survival to the
fact of very wide and varied human experience suggesting the occa-
sionally-perceived presence and influence of the departed : death-
bed visions (by whose implications Professor Richet was much im-
pressed), the visions of children, and other spontaneous phenomena
of which the human circumstances favour their credibility. This is,
in a sense, arguing from belief to belief, and trying to short-circuit
the process of rigorous examination, experiment and reasoning
which is demanded by the nature of research. But if these spon-
taneous experiences of mankind do spring from a soil of pre-estab-
lished belief, the belief itself is a fact of the situation which needs to
be examined, and estimated in respect of its quality. It was from
such a ground that psychical research took its inception. The work
of F. W. H. Myers was alive with the qualitative estimation of human
experience. It is no inept criticism to suggest that the Society may
lose sight of this important scale of values by concentrating too
exclusively upon work resembling that of the dissecting-room or the
physical laboratory. None the less, its research was established to
bring scientific method increasingly into the examination of belief.
Research cannot suffer from too much science, or from too rigorous
(if not too rigid) an apphcation of known scientific principles ;
though in subjects which involve the processes of human life and
mind it may suffer from inappropriate exclusion of human values.
Professor Dodds has not failed to argue from such values, where he
has found their application valid in a negative sense.
If recourse to what may be termed the dignity of the evidence, as
it is apparent in such records as those of death-bed scenes, is of
advantage to reasoned belief in survival, we have to admit a counter-
acting effect in the unimpressive nature of a great body of medium-
istic phenomena. We can say that these are less natural products
and that the channel of mediumship is often open to the flow of futile,
muddled and misleading material. This may be in part the ground
for Mr CoUins's relegation of mediumship to a secondary place. But
Nov.-Dec. 1940 Reviews 213
it is the more curious that he accepts that very strange product of
mediumship, materiahsation, as convincing evidence of survival.
Whether we agree with Richet that seance-room materiahsation is
" absurd ", but true, or consider that the frequent evidence of
fraud connected with it makes the apparently genuine cases at least
subject to suspicion, the question before us seems to be the occur-
rence or non-occurrence of a queer psycho-physical fact. Whether
or not we beheve in ectoplasm, on the evidence, j\'Ir Collins describes
no evidence for the identity of forms produced by it, and such
evidence does not appear to have been put on record as the result
of any reliable investigation.
This question of identity, indeed, is one which Mr Collins osten-
sibly takes into account and actually leaves untouched by any form
of consecutive argument. The whole question of who or what an
apparition, an " influence or a communicator may be, hinges first
upon evidence of identity, if evidence of survival is under discussion.
It is a fact that evidence of identity is more difi&cult to establish
positively than we usually suppose : it is a more intangible thing,
even in everyday life, than is commonly realised. But aU the more
for that, it needs constructive and consistent handling. It is, per-
haps, the lack of this backbone to his case which makes Mr CoUins's
discussion seem little more than a series of argued assertions, distin-
guished by consistency of aim rather than cogency of reasoning.
K. R.
Proceedings of the American Society for Psychical Research : Vol.
XXIII, June 1940. 33 4-ivpp. |1.00. Editorial Comment by
William H. Button and John J. O'Neill. Tests of Extra-
Sensory Perception Among A.S.P.R. Members. By Dr
Gardner Murphy and Ernest Taves.
The Proceedings of the American Society have not been issued
since 1933, and it is a pleasure to see them reappear with so clear-
cut and straightforward an account of experimental work as that
given by Dr Murphy and Mr Taves.
The experiments were all of the card-guessing type, though several
diiferent kinds of card were used. The percipients were interested
members of the American S.P.R., working in small groups of from
five to eight or nine at a time. The experimental conditions appear
to have been unexceptionable ; in particular, the test material was
always taken to the scene of action in an opaque box and was never
opened until after it had been guessed ; if ever reshuffling was
necessary, as for a further series of guesses, it was done in a separate
214 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov.-Dec. 1940
room. Careful precautions were taken to eliminate errors of scoring,
shuffling and checking.
Much of the work was done on guesses of the 50-50 type, in which
the pack contains equal numbers of cards of two sorts only. This
gave very curious results. For example, 6975 guesses at Red or
White cards gave a deficiency of 122-5 successes, which is highly
significant -both intrinsically (P=-0003) and considered as the best
of twelve tasks attempted. But it is interesting to note that of the
five other tasks involving colour discrimination (Red-Black, Yellow-
Blue, Black-White, Red-Yellow) four give a negative result, while
of the four similar 50-50 tasks involving other qualities (Circle-
Blank, Square-Waves, Circle-Cross, Portraits of Men-Portraits of
Women) three give positive results. There is a suggestion here,
though no more, that it is the colour rather than the redness or
whiteness that is responsible for the negative result. Of the 24
percipients who took part, no fewer than 17 scored below expecta-
tion, 6 above, and 1 the exact number expected. This is just
significant, with P a trifle less than -05 ; so it looks as if the " nega-
tavity " with respect to the Red-White situation were fairly wide-
spread.
The other task which yielded significant results (positive in this
case) was with what are known as Rook cards. A pack of these
consists of 4 suits of 14 cards each, numbered 1 to 14 in different
colours, and the task was to guess the finest 14 and last 14 of the pack.
There was a slight, though not quite significant, tendency for the
percipients generally to score above expectation ;
but one achieved
an excess of 37 successes in 90 runs of 14 calls each, giving P less
than -0001. The only other task reported, in which five cards
marked with a dot were shuffled into 45 blanks, gave null results.
Simple experiments of this kind lend themselves well to group
working, such as Societies can conveniently undertake, and there is
a strong suggestion that frequent variation of the task, such as
would reheve the monotony for the participants, promotes the
obtaining of worth-while results—compare also Pratt & Woodruff,
Journal of Parapsychology, Vol. 3, No. 2. It is greatly to be hoped
that, under more favourable conditions than those now prevailing,
work of this kind may be undertaken by members of our own
Society ;
particularly that of repeating the colour discrimination
tests mentioned above.
My only quarrel with an otherwise admirable paper is that the
values of "P in Appendix I appear to have been quite gratuitously
halved We cannot have too much of this kind and quality of work.
w. w. c.
Nov.-Dec. 1940 Reviews 215
The Physics of the Divining Rod. By J. Cecil Maby and T. Bedford
Franklin. London : G. Bell & Sons, Ltd. (1939.) 21s.
The title, " contents list of 51 illustrations, and clear print and
paragraphing of this imposing volume of 452 pages, might be ex-
pected to bring some feeling of confidence to the intending reader
that he will find, in its text, good solid material for his consideration
and subsequent digestion. This feeling might be expected to increase
as the curious reader turns the pages, and notes the abundance of
technical terms and confident statements of astonishing discoveries
made, apparently, with rather simple instrumental means. He will
note a large number of " graphs ", a few of which show scales of
numbers at the bottom and at the left-hand edge. The scales at the
bottom are tiyne scales, in days, hours, etc., but the other scale, the
ordinate of the graph, apparently does not refer to the dial or scale
reading of any physical instrument, such as a galvanometer, electro-
meter, wavemeter, etc., taken at the time indicated on the time.scale,
and acted upon solely by the physical enyironment. In the reviewer's
opinion this is an example of the kind of vagueness which characterises
the description of what the authors claim to be physical experiments.
This vagueness concerning exact descriptions of the instruments
used, their sensitivity, consistency in repeated experiments, etc., is,
unfortunately, maintained through the whole book. It will most
certainly cause doubts to arise in the mind of the average physicist
who reads beyond p. 6 of the introduction, where it is stated :
. . .
" we think we may claim incontrovertibly to have shown that
the causes of the ordinary dowsing reflexes and rod reactions are to
be found in certain penetrating, electrically excitor, rays : one class
—
the more important of the two—consisting of short Hertzian waves of
geophysical or cosmic origin, and exhibiting polarisation and electro-
magnetic phenomena." Such laxity on the part of the authors might
indeed be excused in the interest of providing light and easy instruc-
tion concerning well-established knowledge (were this true) for those
who are scientifically untrained, and it could also be excused if a
reference were given to details of the authors' investigations published
in any scientific journal of repute. As matters stand it appears that
the novelty of their claims in the field of physics is as astonishing as
their disregard for all other possible explanations of the variations
of the readings of their instruments, upon which these claims are sup-
posedly based. On p. 174 it is stated :
" it is evident that the dowser
must respond to the high frequency effects, due to Hertzian radia-
tion ... his muscles acting both as receiving aerial and detector
niechanism ". Strange that his muscles do not get " jammed " by
all the short wave radio now being broadcast! C. C. L. G.
INDEX TO VOL. XXXI
1939-1941
For the sake of brevity such quaHfications as " supposed ",
" alleged etc., are omitted from this index. It must, however,
be understood that this omission is made solely for brevity, and
does not imply any assertion that the subject-matter of any entry
is in fact real or genuine.
Aitken Case, 103-4, 120-3
Automatic Writing, 62-75
Barlow, Fred, 99-100, 112-13 •
Bell, Colonel A. H., 16
Bendit, Dr Laurence J., 155-6, 172-3,
186
Bennett, Sir Ernest, 141
Bergson, 12
Besterman, Theodore, 125-6, 172-3,
186. 192-4, 209
Bleimerhassett Trust, 203-4
Broad, Professor C. D., 136, 183-5,
193. 206
Brown, Dr William, 137
Carington, W. Whately, 44, 60, 136,
160, 181-2, 193-4, 204-8
Carrmgton, Hereward, 9-10, 38-9,
168-71
Cases : "A Well-Evidenced Pre-
cognitive Dream 2-6 ;
" A Co-
incidence of Dreams ", 14-15 ;
" An Apparition of a Dead Person
Seen in Daylight by Two Per-
cipients 33-4 ;
" A Doctor's Im-
pression Suggesting Distant Tele-
pathy from a Patient ", 34-7 ; "A
Dream Anticipating Future
Event 47-53 ;
" A Veridical
Imjiression of Non-Existent Words
in a Letter 53-4 ;
" The Detec-
tion of a Theft through Informa-
tion Given by a Medium ", 81-3,
95-6; " The "Question of Motive
in an Apparently Precognitive
Dream 83-5 ;
" A Communi-
cator Introduced in Automatic
Script 91-5 ;
" A New Type of
Proxy Case ", 103-6, 120-3 ;
" Miss-
ing Papers Located by an Ap-
parently Paranormal Process ",
123-4;" "A Case for Survival?"
142-52 ;
" Coincident Dreams ",
161-2; "The Missing Water
Valve ", 178-81
Clairvoyance, 7, 14. 18, 46
Collins," B. Abdy, 192, 210-13
Crandon, Dr L. R. G., 173
Cummins, Miss Geraldine, 47, 62-75
Dallas, Miss Helen Alex., 209-210
Deane, Mrs, 99-100, 112,
Dodds, Professor E. R., 168-71,211-12
Dowsing, 16, 181, 193, 215
Dreams, 2-6, 14-15, 47-53, 83-5, 152-
3, 161-2, 165-6
Driesch, Dr Hans, 12, 56-8
Duff, J. R. K., 23
Electrical Apparatus, Mr Tyrrell's,
6-8, 25-8 ; Mr Redmayne's, 136
Etheric Body, 211-12
Extra-Sensory Perception, 10, 17, 18,
25, 37-8, 44, 60, 135, 153, 166-8,
204-8, 213-14
Findlay, Arthur, 33
Freak Bridge Hands, 181-2
Freud, Professor Sigmund, 141, 171-2
Index to Vol. XXXI 217
Gatty, Oliver. 136, 190, 192-3
Gibbes, Miss E. B., 62-6, 69-70, 74
Gibson, E. P., 178-81, 193
" Glimpse Into the Future, A ", 163-5
Goldney, RIrs, 32, 197
Gow, David, 119, 141
Herbert, C. V. C, 14, 160
Hettinger, Dr J., 178
Hughes, Mrs Helen, 14, 16, 135
Identity, Evidence of, 96-7, 213
Images of the Self, 152-3, 165-6
Johnson, Miss Alice, 134, 160-1
Johnson, Miss G. M., 167
Jones, Sir Lawrence, 53, 93
Kakucs, Baroness de, 152-3, 165-6
Leah, Frank, 16
Leonard sittings, episodes from, 103-
6, 120-3, 169
Levitation, 17, 80
Light, 108-11
Lodge, Sir Oliver, 191, 192, 204
London Spiritualist Alliance, 16
Lyttelton, the Hon. Mrs Alfred,
'G.B.E., 24
Maby, J. Cecil, 38-41, 215
Marston, Sir Charles, 172
Materialisation, 79, 213
Moor, Mrs, 53-4
Morton, Dr Eva, 141
Myers, F. W. H., 63, 69, 79, 110, 163,
203, 212
Nature, 107-8
Netherton Case, 105-6
New College, Oxford, 204
Newton, Miss Isabel, 18-19
Paladino, Eusapia, 80
Paranormal Cognition of Drawings,
44, 60, 116, 136-7, 204-8, 208-9
Payne, Miss Phoebe, 155
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, Count,
44, 58-9, 62, 79-81, 200-2, 209
Perrott Studentship, 198, 204
Photography, psychic, 99-100, 112-13
Piddington, J. G., 108
Poltergeist Phenomena, 194-8
Pratt, Dr J. G., 153, 154, 214
Precognition, 2, 7, 47-53, 204, 206
Predictions Concerning the Present
War, A Suggested Enquiry into,
124-5
Price, Professor H. H., 134, 137, 152,
166 (twice), 173, 203. 204
Price, Harrv, 125-6, 132
Proxy Sittings, 79, 102, 103-6
Rayleigh, The Lord, 18
Redmayne, G., 136
Research, reports on, 16-18, 135-7
Reviews. Books :
Sir Ernest Bennett, Apixtritions
cmd Haunted Houses, 113-14
Dr P. Thomas Bret. La metapsy-
chorragie, la telepathie, la hantise,58-9
Hereward Carrington, Labora-
tory Lnvestigations into Psychic
Phenomena, 114-15 ;
Psychic Science
and Survival, 115-16
B. Abdy Collins, Death is Not the
End, 100
^
Geraldine Cummins, When Nero
ivas Dictator, 116
Walter de la Mare. Behold, this
Dreamer! 97-8
Harry Ed-\vards, The Medium-
ship of.Jack Webber, 199-200
Arthur Findlay, The Psychic
Stream, 126-9
Eileen Garrett, My Life as a
Search for the Meaning of Medium-
ship, 155-6
J. Hettinger, Ph.D., The Ultra-
Perceptive Faculty, 187-8
Hugo Kramer, Trance. Wan-
derungen i7n Grenzgebiete des Seelen-
lebens 43-4
J. Cecil Maby and T. Bedford
Franldin, The Physics of the
Divining Rod, 215
William McDougaU, F.R.S., The
Riddle of Life, 10-12
R. L. Megroz, The Dream World,
174
J. T. Poortman, Drei Vortrdge
fiber Philosophie und Parapsycho-
logie, 56-8
Harry Price, Fifty Years of
Psychical Research, 132 ; The Most
Haunted House in England, 196-8
218 Index to Vol. XXXI
Reviews. Books (cont.)
Kenneth Richmond, Evidence of
Identity, 96-7
H. F. Saltmarsh, Foreknowledge,
41-2
Charles J. Seymour, This Spiri-
tualism, 200-2
Sardar Sidakhan Singh, The
Theory arid Practice of Yoga, 75-6
Sachevcrell Sitwell, Poltergeists,
194-6
Philip Thornton, Iko7is and Oxen,
98-9
Rene Warcollier, Experiments in
Telepathy, 130-1
F. W, Warrick, Experiments in
Psychics, 99-100
R. A. Waters and William B.
Johnston, Cloud Chamber Investiga-
tion into Post-Mortem Ions, 114
Reviews. Periodicals and Pam-
phlets :
Journal of Parapsychology, 153-
4, 189-90
Proceedings of the American
5. P.R., 213-14
Revue Metapsychique, 85, 174-5
Tijdschrift voor P'arapsychologie,
87-8, 175-6
^^'hy I Do Believe in Survival, by
B. Abdy Collins, 210-13
Richet, Professor, 212, 213
.
Richmond, Kenneth, 19, 96-7, 109,
141
Richmond, Mrs Kenneth, 83-5
Salter, W. H., 106-11, 123-4, 149,
150, 183-8, 193
Salter, Mrs W. H., 123-4
Saltmarsh, H. F., 41-2, 206-7
Schneider, Rudi, 126
" Sealed Envelope ", Sir Oliver
Lodge's, 192
Sidgwick, Mrs Henry, 110
Smart, Sir Morton, 34-7
Soal, S. G., 8-9, 10, 37-8, 38-41, 54-6,
204-8
Society for Psychical Research :
Accounts, 1938, 20-2 ; 1939, 138-40
Committees, Membership of, 31, 158
Lectures, Autumn, 19 ;
Myers
Memorial, 137, 160
Society for Psychical Research {cont.)
Library, 23, 101
Meetings, Annual General, 31-2,
159-60
Council, 14, 30, 46, 78, 90, 102,
158-9, 177, 178
Private, 14, 24, 46-7, 62, 79, 90,
160, 178, 191
Membership, 23, 141
Pubhcations, 19, 24, 142
'
'
Report, Annual, for 1938, 16-24 ;
for 1939, 134-42
Work of, in War Time, The, 101,
134
Spmney, G. H., 137
Spontaneous and Experimental
Cases, 8-9, 38-41, 54-6
Survival, Evidence of, 115-6, 142-52,
168, 210-13 •
...
Tanagras, Dr A., 17, 81-3, 95, 135
Telepathy, 7, 9, 17, 34-7, 38-41, 52-
53, 108-11, 135, 160, 168-71, 211
Telling, Dr W. H. Maxwell, 23
Tenhaeff, Dr W. H. C, case reported
by, 2 ;
87-8, 175-6
Thomas, the Rev. C. Drayton, 79,
102, 103-6, 119, 120-3, 168
Thomson, Sir J. J., O.M., 191
Thornton, Philip, 46
Thouless, Dr R. H., 25-8, 136, 153-4,
169
Thurston, Father, 118, 141
Trefusis, The Hon. Mrs Robert,
O.B.E., 161-2
Trinity College, Cambridge, 198, 204
Tyrreil, G. N. M., 2, 24, 25-8, 91-5,
166-8
VarviU, Mrs M. K., 10, 19, 37-8
Wallter, Miss May, 197
Warren, Miss V.," 19
Warrick, F. W., 99-110, 112-13
Webber, Jack, 173, 199-200
Wedd, Nathaniel, 191
Word-Association Technique, 16
Yeats, Dr W. B., 24 i
Yoga, 75-6, 87-8 •
Zorab, G., 142-52
