{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1victoria_nde.html","mytitle":"Victoria NDE 4242","mylang":"de"}
          	        Victoria NDE 4242  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Victoria NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2075 Victoria NDE 4242  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I went to reach for the bubble bath but somehow my perception was impaired. I hit my forehead on the tile surround, I tried again and hit the bridge of my nose then I blacked out. The next thing I knew, I was in the tub full of water. My forehead and back were aching immensely and my nose was bleeding, I didn't know where I was for a moment or two. I then tried to reach for the knob to operate the bath tub plug but I kept on slipping in further, almost if I were being pushed down. I couldn't breathe and I swallowed water. After struggling  and struggling to get out, I felt incredible pain in my knees, elbows, head and nose. Then I just opened my eyes and felt no pain or discomfort at all. All I could see was clear water and I could hear its peaceful sound.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/17/2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentIllness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' Drowning in bath tub

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I hit the bridge of my nose and it started bleeding.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I couldn’t tell time on the other side.  However, all of this took place while at my parents house so I must have been dead for about 45 minutes.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Transparency.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    A loud sound, like from an electrical outlet.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Dark beings?

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   It was around my eyes and almost flickering as if it could not make up it's mind.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Contentedness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I know that something was meant to happen to me that night but exactly  what I don't know. I dream now and see my hair floating in water and  there is a red sweater there. I don't own one.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     A clear picture of my future and somehow I am supposed to design women’s shoes or jewellery which are things I know nothing about.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I give thanks every time I remember.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I give thanks every time I remember.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No Yes. I have forgiven others and myself.  I have opened the line of communication with my parents and siblings.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Yes. When I fell in the bath tub it was full to the top, I had hit my head twice and my reflexes were impaired.  I swallowed water and remember that I could not get out because it was too slippery. My head was hurting immensely and blood was coming out of my nose, but in one moment I just laid with my eyes open at peace.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can now tell if someone is thinking of suicide or feels lonely.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It has been less than 4 days and I can't go in to the tub to shower.  I have more questions than answers. When I was taken to  the hospital I heard people pounding on my chest, saying how young I was.  I thought what a time to die just before the holidays.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I don't know when it will be my time to die, but I am not afraid.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1victoria_nde.html