{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1victor_d_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Victor D Probable NDE 6278","mylang":"de"}
          	        Victor D Probable NDE 6278  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Victor D Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3037 Victor D Probable NDE 6278  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was five years old, a friend and I were playing out behind our homes. I was climbing a tree while my friend watched.  I slipped, lost my footing, and my neck became lodged in a crotch of the tree. I was hanging by my neck.  My little friend watched as I struggled, lost consciousness and my body became limp. Thinking I was angry with him because I could not answer his questions, he began to walk home where he encountered my mother.  'Davey won't talk to me,' he said. 

He led my mother to the area where we were playing and my mother saw my limp body hanging in the tree.  Her screams brought my father running to the scene.  He climbed the tree and brought me down.  He noticed I was not breathing and began mouth-to-mouth resuscitation.  While he was doing so, my mother called an ambulance as well as our family doctor.  The doctor arrived within about 15 minutes as my father was still performing mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. The doctor and ambulance personnel took over from my dad and transported me to the hospital, about seven miles away.  

I was unconscious in an oxygen tent for five days. All I remember is waking up. I do remember that clearly, as if it were yesterday.  My parents were sitting by my bedside.  They asked me something along the lines of, 'where have you been?'  I replied that I had been with 'Grandma Lee.'  I told my parents that she had taken care of me the past few days and that I had spent all of my time with her.  'Grandma Lee' was my great grandmother who had passed away two years earlier.

I woke up early that morning.  Earlier in the morning, while it was still dark, my mother had gone home to get some rest.  She was awakened by the sound of my voice.  It was then that she received a phone call from the hospital that I was beginning to come around. 

Again, the only memory I have is waking up in the hospital; that memory is as fresh as if it happened last week.  I have no memory of the NDE or the accident.  My parents told me that I had told them about being with Grandma for five days and that I had described my visit with her in great detail.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 1956

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   See above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       See above.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My great grandmother.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was a beautiful meadow with beautiful flowers.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt happiness and contentment since I was with my great grandmother.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I was told I reported being with my grandmother (deceased) and that I was quite happy about it.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I saw and heard my great grandmother. She held me in her lap.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I began having precognitive dreams.  Not often, but periodically.  Clear visions of events that later happened, mostly involving aviation accidents that would later show up in the newspapers.  My mother and I seemed to have a psychic bond and could finish one another's sentences.  I became a bit of a loner when it came to wanting to play with other children.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have precognitive dreams and an enhanced ability to know what other people are thinking.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My parents.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I do not remember the experience.  My parents told me what I reported to them. They felt I was enthusiastic about my experience with my grandmother and that it was real to me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I have out-of-body experiences while sleeping or, if they are not true OBEs, they are amazingly realistic dreams.  During these OBSs or OBE-like dreams, my senses are more acute as I fly wherever I want to go.  They are incredibly serene and blissful experiences.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The accident is verifiable.  Since I do not recall the NDE, I have to go by what my parents told me about it.  Since this happened in 1956, long before NDEs were commonly discussed, my parents could not have made it up.  They were amazed by my story and related it to me a few years later.  They were not the type to make up stories.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Continue to research NDEs. My parents are both deceased.  I am 61 and in poor health. I find NDE stories very comforting and I spend a great deal of my time reading them and reading about heaven.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1victor_d_probable_nde.html