{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1victor_k_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Victor K Probable NDE 9699","mylang":"de"}
          	        Victor K Probable NDE 9699  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Victor K Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5237 Victor K Probable NDE 9699  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    

  I bought a book, here in Brazil, about a month before my accident.  The name of that book was, EVIDÊNCIA DA VIDA APÓS A MORTE (Evidence of Life After Death). I was hoping to find something interesting and of comfort since I lost a brother 10 years ago in a car accident.  He was 45 years old and was 35 years old. We were good friends at the time.   

  He was stopped at a traffic light when a bus went on top of his vehicle. Afterwards, I always believed that he was by my side. I really believe in the spiritual side of life.  After my brother's death, I started cycling and was at an advanced level after 9 years of daily training.    

  On June 5, 2022, I went out for another Sunday of training.  I was stopped on the side of the road. I was hit so hard by a car, that I came into his car through the rear window.  I was badly injured.  I went into a coma, had 2 heart attacks, head trauma, facial trauma, and went into anaphylactic shock.  I was transported by helicopter to the hospital.  

  I remember my NDE perfectly.  I walked through a blue portal and had a sense of peace like I had mever felt before. My brother came towards me and telepathically told me to come back to my body and lay down and to be strong because I have my daughters.  I lay down and tried hard to be strong.  I was sweating a lot in both, my upper and lower body.
  
  The clothes my brother were wearing were the same color blue as the portal.  He stayed near the right side of my head. There were also 10 people dressed in white who were around my bed for 3 days. During this time, my brother would anxiously go from one side to the other. After the third day, he headed towards the portal.  I felt him go in peace. The people in white disappeared.  

  I spent 16 days in a coma.  When I work up, I wrote a letter in handwriting that was not my own, asking to be reunited with my brother's children, my daughters, and my mother.    

  I live to the fullest today, knowing that the bitter feelings from the loss of my brother are behind me.  The other side is magnificent.  I know that the important thing is to have a good heart and live one day at a time.  I can relate to the feelings of others who describe their experiences in the book referenced above because I have felt those feelings they describe.      

Thank you for letting me share my experience with others who have understand what I went through.  I felt embarrassed since many people I have told before thought that I had a hallucination.    

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

  Date NDE Occurred: 	 06/05/2022  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.  Allergic Reaction.  CPR given. Direct head injury.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was seriously injured as a victim of a traffic accident.    I suffered a head trauma, lung trauma, spinal cord injury, 2 cardiorespiratory arrests, and anaphylactic shock due to dipyrone  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    No    
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.   It was normal. I remember being as fully alert and conscious as I am now  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At all times  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Normal  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Normal  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I went through a blue portal  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     I went through a blue portal. I felt an indescribable sense of peace  
  
What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A lot of peace and serenity  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others.     I realized that I was accepting death and my brother made me accept the return  
  
Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Much more confident  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I had believed that my brother would be on another spiritual plane and I was able to confirm that  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe that we have to do our best and teach those who have not had such an experience that it is a very valid one and that it is not over with life on earth  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel fulfilled  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  It was an unforgettable event that I think about all the time  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

  Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I believe it was a critical moment for my family and very much so for my children.  My experience gave me some answers and a sense of calmness in my heart by being able to understand this other side of life.  
  
Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I do that whenever I feel comfortable doing so  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I know it was real it’s not a matter of belief it’s reality  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     I feel much more centered in life and in the fact that I lived an eternal reality  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       We cannot wish for people to go through this in order to have an understanding of life, but we can hope to need to evolve every day  

  Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Daily publications it is not an event, it’s a reality         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1victor_k_probable_nde.html