{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V32 1941-42","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v32_1941-42.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V32 1941-42","mylang":"de"}
JOURNAL
OF THE
iety for Psychical Resea
VOL. XXXII
1941 —1942
For Private Circulation among Members
and Associates only
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
All rights reserved
CONTENTS
PAGE
Annual Report of the Council for 1940 ... 2
The President on Telepathy and Clairvoyance in Relation to
Philosophy - -- -- -- -- 10
The Physics and Physiology of Field Dowsing - - - - 14
Experiments in Telepathy with Dr Gilbert Murray - - - 29
An Examination of Mr J. C. Maby's Statement concerning a Re-
view in the Journal of " The Physics of the Divining Rod " - 38
Foreknowledge in Dreams - .- -- --50
A Personal Experience - -- -- -- -59
Paranormal Cognition : Some Observed Results in Mr Soal's
Further Experiments - - - - - - - 71
Experiments in Telepathy, June-July 1941- - - - - 96
Telepathy in Macbeth ? - .--.--99
Case: Greek Script by a Child of Four - - - - -116
An Apparition Seen by Two Witnesses - - - - - 119
Annual Report of the Council for 1941 - - .
- - 126
Case : A Dream Suggesting Precognition - - - - _I35
Case : Some Evidence of Precognition by Communicators - - 158
A Case of Reciprocal Hallucinations - - - - - -166
Case : A Collective Hallucination at Boscastle, 1933 - - - 174
New Members- - - - 50, 69, 94, 109, 126, 150, 157, 166, 173
Meetings of the Council - - - - 26, 94, 109, 126, 150, 173
Meetings of the Society - 25, 69, 109, 151, 152, 157, 174
Correspondence - - 22, 42, 61, 84, 103, 120, 137, 154, 159, 168
Reviews 64, 84, 103, 123, 147, 162, 169, 178
2, 27, 94, 113, 154
Obituaries
Index - - - - - - - - - - -181
316078
-
-
No. 571-572.—Vol. XXXII January-February 1941
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of
the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, 26 February, 1941, at 3 p.m.
To transact the business set out on the formal notice dated
the 16 January, 1941, and already circulated.
N.B.
—
Members alone have the right to take part in the business of
the Annual General Meeting, but Associates may be present.
A
2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1941
OBITUARY
We record with, much regret the death of Professor Henri Bergson,
who was President of the Society in 1913. An obituary will be
published in Proceedings.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL POR 1940
The work of the Society has, owing to conditions created by the
war, been carried on during the past year under great and increasing
difficulties. Some forms of research have become impracticable, and
meetings of the Society, of which five were held in the first half of
the year, were discontinued in the latter half. The Council wish to
reaffirm the policy set out in their last Annual Report of carrying
on the Society's " activities, in research, publication and the holding
of meetings, as fully as war conditions will permit ".
The Council particularly regret the loss of contact, due to the
extension of the war, with psychical researchers in many Continental
countries.
They are glad to report that all the officers of the Society, including
the caretakers, have so far escaped personal injury, that no damage
has been done to our Library and archives, and no serious damage
to our premises.
(1) Research Work, (a) The Research Officer's Report. Some
experiments in card guessing and the paracognition of drawings,
which were carried out during the early part of the year with a sub-
ject who had shown promise in previous tests, produced no evidence
for any paranormal effect. It seemed that the earlier faculty—if
indeed it were anything more than a series of lucky shots—had been
inhibited by the confused conditions of the war and the subject's
reactions to the idea of military service.
A number of spontaneous cases has been sent in—though fewer
than in normal times—and one has been printed in the Journal.
The remainder, after full examination, have been filed for reference.
Accounts have been received of experiences which, though show-
ing little or no evidence of the operation of a paranormal faculty,
are nevertheless of interest psychologically as having a possible
bearing on the process of paranormal cognition. It is perhaps not
sufficiently widely known that accounts of any unusual experiences,
whether from dream material or waking consciousness, are gladly
received by the Society, and that the usual confidence will be ob-
served as to names and addresses. Dreams showing an ostensibly
precognitive content, but which proved in fact not to be veridical,
Jan.-Feb. 1941 Annual Report of the Council for 1940 3
are especially valuable owing to their being so rarely recorded,
though apparently of common occurrence.
Further progress has been made by Mr Redmayne with his work
on paracognition. Some of the improvements to his apparatus,
which vrere foreshadowed in his paper in Proceedings, have been
carried out, and the results of a number of experiments with various
subjects have been communicated to the Research Officer. The
analysis of these is not yet complete.
A number of communications has been received purporting to
give clues to the contents of the sealed envelope deposited with the
Society by the late Sir Oliver Lodge. All these will be carefully
examined when the time conies for opening the envelope. The
attention of Members is invited to the suggestions in the Journal
for September- October ; if these are carried into effect, the evidential
value of the experiment will be greatly enhanced. In view of
publicity given by the press to the experiment, similar suggestions
have been made in letters published by Light and The Psychic News.
(b) Other Research. Mr Whately Carington has continued his
experiments on the paranormal cognition of drawings. The results
of the first five of these were described in detail in Part 162 of the
Proceedings (June 1940). Later than these, an experiment carried
out at the end of 1939 intended to test the difference, if any, between
the results obtained when the originals were known, and when they
were unknown to the experimenter, has been scored and analysed.
The result was null, but this is probably attributable to the sections
of the experiment being insufficiently separated in time rather than
to knowledge on the part of the experimenter being ineffective.
A more important experiment was organised in the spring of 1940.
In this, experimenters and groups of percipients from ten different
Universities in the British Isles participated. Five independent
experimenters drew and " displayed " originals in five separate, but
partially contemporaneous, experiments, while the ten groups of
percipients, arranged in pairs, tried to reproduce them. The result
was highly successful in the sense that the percipients as a whole
scored to a significant extent more hits on the fifty originals used
in these experiments than did the percipients of the first five ex-
periments ; on the other hand, they quite failed to distinguish be-
tween the originals at which they were supposed to be aiming and
those at which they were not. This result seems likely to lead to
interesting theoretical conclusions.
It is hoped to publish full details of these two experiments shortly.
Further experiments are in progress, with special reference to
evolving a repeatable technique such that any competent person
4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1941
who cares to take the trouble can obtain positive results without
undue labour.
Mr Soal is carrying out further experiments with one of the two
subjects whose work, reported in a recent paper, showed displace-
ment effects in the guessing of Zener cards. A method is being used
which, while it retains the statistical principle of the Zener cards,
permits of the objects of presentation being varied from one experi-
ment to another. It has also been arranged for the subject and the
experimenters to be in different rooms. Interesting results have
already been noted and if these continue it should be possible to
decide whether the apparent precognitive effects are to be inter-
preted as a telepathic prevision by the subject of future mental
states of the agent.
Dr Hettinger has been preparing for the press a second volume on
the experiments conducted by him at King's College, London Uni-
versity. Arrangements for further experiments by him, on dif-
ferent lines, which were upset by war conditions last autumn, will
be put into effect as soon as practicable.
(2) Financial Position. It is too early to attempt to forecast the
ultimate effect of the war on the Society's finances, but the immedi-
ate strain is obvious. The tenant of the upper part of 31 Tavistock
Square has, to his great regret, found himself compelled to terminate
his tenancy by notice expiring at Christmas 1940, and it is very
doubtful whether in present conditions any other tenant could be
found. Moreover, while the Society's income from investments
remains exempt from tax, the Inland Revenue Authorities have
decided against the Society's claim to recover tax on Subscriptions
under the Deeds of Covenant executed by some of our Members.
Fortunately the position of the Research Endowment Fund is quite
satisfactory, and the Trustees of that Fund have offered to make a
recommendation to the Council that assistance be given to the
General Fund in case of urgent necessity. On a comprehensive view,
therefore, there is no immediate cause for alarm, so long as every
reasonable economy is practised, and (still more important) our
Members give the Society that degree of support which the Council
confidently expect.
(3) Blennerhassett Trust. The Council wish to express their warm
appreciation of the action of Mrs Blennerhassett, daughter of
Frederic Myers, in founding a Trust, of which particulars were given
in a recent Journal, for the advancement of Psychical Research.
They welcome the encouragement given to opening up " novel lines
of enquiry ", and the evidence of growing academic recognition of
our subject shown by the acceptance by New College, Oxford, of the
Jan.-Feb. 1941 Annual Report of the Council for 1940 5
responsibility for administering the Trust in the event (may it long
be deferred!) of the Society ceasing to exist.
(4) Perrott, Studentship in Psychical Research. The Council con-
gratulate the selectors at Cambridge on their appointment of Mr
Whately Carington as first holder of the Studentship, particulars of
which were recently published in Proceedings ; with equal warmth
they congratulate their colleague on his appointment. He began
his tenure of the Studentship in the Michaelmas term of 1940,
continuing as Perrott Student the researches on paranormal per-
ception of drawings which he had previously been conducting for the
S.P.R. in collaboration with their Cambridge Committee. Under the
regulations of the Perrott Foundation, Trinity College, Cambridge
appoints and pays one or more Supervisors, whose duty it is to keep
in touch with the Student and his work. The College appointed
Mr Chambers, of the Psychological Laboratory at Cambridge, and
Dr. R. H. Thouless, who had been a valued member of the Cambridge
Committee from the outset. The S.P.R. had been paying Dr Thou-
less an honorarium of £10 per annum, out of the grant made for
the Cambridge experiments from the Research Fund, for the very
great amount of time and trouble which he gave to the work of the
Committee. Dr Thouless remains a member of the Committee, but he
has generously declined to accept any payment from the Society for
his work in this connexion so long as he is being paid by the Per-
rott Fund for supervising Mr Whately Carington's present research.
(5) Presidency. Professor H. H. Price was re-elected for a second
year. The Council wish to place on record their warm appreciation
of the active part he has taken in the Society's work, notwith-
standing the fact that he is engaged in special war work in addition
to his ordinary academic duties.
(6) Changes on the Council. In Sir Oliver Lodge the Council lost a
colleague of very long standing and the highest distinction, who had
played a leading part in biiilding up the Society and shaping its
policy ; and in Mr Oliver Gatty, a young man of brilliant promise both
in Science and Psychical Research : obituary notices of both have
been published in Proceedings. To fill the vacancy among the elected
members caused by Sir Oliver's death, the Council appointed the Rev.
C. Drayton Thomas, who has for several years been a co-opted mem-
ber. Mr' G. N. M. Tyrrell, with whose work all our members are
familiar, was co-opted to the Council in the early part of the year.
(7) Corresponding Members and Hon. Associates. The Council
has elected as Corresponding Members two American psychologists
who have made important contributions to Psychical Research, Dr
Gardner Murphy and Dr J. B. Rhine. Miss H. Carruthers and Miss
A 2
O CO CO
— H CO COOOHOOOiM'tO C O
H
c£> Is- ^ o lTj CO OOuO-^ClOliiOtNOO t- cs
1—1 rH HHH pH —
kO r-l lO LO H lO CI H ifl iO O O CD iC
r-l CO uO CM iH r-l CM OS
CO CM H CO r-t
iH r-l i ' o © HO ' O CM 00 CO O
i-( iH rH
CM CO o o lfi o OONN^tO
cot> Oi CD tD uO o m o w n co
CIO CO <N I>
e+*CM r-l rH CM
= I- -
si
ft, 5!
ft,
-
(3 O
B5ft,sa
•
fc> ft.
« C ;i ? 3
oh
O ^ oa fc* o ^
SgcftjgS
g o S&j 5 o
- -
1 58
34 >
3 L..
C-J | SO
<M 1 00
IS
a
o o
* 3
k c2 -a
S3""
l-H (- (- P
<L>
w 00 CU
S S r- 3
© © o
1 - CO oo
I—
1
CO CO rH ifj
CM ifl CM
i-
I- O CO O OS
kO Ol O iC Gl
OJ 01 rH
•H t- O
<N rH -+
00
00
S a =
IohP
US o
CO o CO
—
1
—
o ~ 1 N
>a
'
&1
eg
, ^
3
5, a
tS
CO o
o CO
c
©
O CO Tt*
rl ^2 ^ ai
2 o o ^ S
f no
3 c a
o o
l-H
r-i
in o
CO
-
r CS
1—
1
o CI O O O
z cq /.
(M
o o
r-f
r-i O
o o
=« r-l
b H O CO
CO O O CO
<M O © O
Gl CO r-l
» o o
!) S O
a u £
a s _
o
© oo o OS
o ©
O oo
O ISO CO 00
Ci H N CI I>
c+i crt
co i i 1
go
"&.OS ,
s § ^ *• a
e « o ^ ^
« 3 g w P."2
lis » 25 "K §
° I ?S 3
*= 5 I § -O
BSCS B,f|
>> - - -
OS
:
K c „.
•S 5 ~
P o '
W U £ 2*
*> n,
2 = p
co *-
I
oo o <M
HHH
t> (M
O CJ CI 00
H CO H I -
e+1
>>
d
p.
B
c
u
CO -
ca S b
— -s s
SO
<= 5 5
<d a o
« cs »
2
'Si
<
ft
H
a 3
M
o> g
R .Q
CD
2 R
n
ft
H
z
a
c
&
g in in
P3 no,'
CO
CD
CO
£
o s
(D O
Q fl
C
OS fH
^ o
" in
» §
ft
r-t 00
CO irt
Oi CI
! -5 2.
O O O O i-H o o
CO
o O iS
o q £
CO GO XJ
03 -T?
CO * g is
a c Q
h-i H H
O o
>> >. ,
<S a! 1
& & •
P fl
EES
-S S §
h cd d
o o o o o o o
o o O O 00 o I>
CD O O O O iO CI
CI CO CO o m N
^ c+i
C1
" trt c+1 C+i
0
V & 0 0 w w <u
M H O C to t-i
O o ^ H H O
O O o o O o o
O O O o o o o
ifl o CO «* o o o
m O ?-H CD CD o
O CO « K5 W <N i>-
r-T ^ Ci C^ trf ^ C+l
c+J c+t c+l
'
" X5 ft
i
m cs g
i
in th g
:
S ^ o
'
o
1
JiJ o
1
" CJ
a
a
ft
£
CO
a p
a :
—
ft
CO o
03
O CO [j
5 5 s
sa
H
eo <H
* m 2
^ d
.as s _°
~ 'o ^ CO
5 S ° % t-
B g m c t3
O ^ <-<
CO CO
co 3 J3
to tn
.Sob
•3
H 1
« s?l
1
^ a a
, <h o a
° S 73
£ E §
2 S S
°
S •§ M
en
co
a
M 5
« -3
<D c
U CD
T3
0
C3 co
co (-«
T3P c3
bo a
|S o
M
| |
s & I
3 P
d d co2 x)
"3 ^ S-3 8
^ 5
o S
CNinr-»t^030000
i-H
H^Hioaoooo
rH t-t
XCScdOOOOOtH
incooorHOOinoeo
CrtHC+JHWCOWMH
e*i e+1 c*i trt
^ ^
C4)
C^ Crf
43 43
o cn
o eS
o O o
o o 00
CM o eo
CO- -e " i
•n LO
•--i
q
z
p
PR
03
O
w
H
W
6°
Jan.-Feb. 1941 Annual Report of the Council for 1940 9
Nea Walker, both of whom have rendered the Society valuable
services, have been elected as Hon. Associates.
(8) Library. After Sir Oliver Lodge's death his family kindly per-
mitted the officers of the Society to select such of his books as they
considered would be useful additions to our Library, and the Council
wish to place on record their thanks for this valuable gift, which
includes some works rare in this country.
In addition to Members and Associates who consulted books in
the Library, 43 Members borrowed books, the total number of books
lent to Members being 178. 60 books were borrowed by members
of the public through the National Central Library for Students.
(9) List of Recommended Literature. Members will probably often
have been asked by friends, who have recently developed an interest
in our subject, to recommend them useful books to read, and also
for assistance in finding their way through the maze of our many
volumes of Proceedings and Journal. To such students the review
columns of the Press, which frequently give the warmest praise to
books on Psychical Research of no serious value, are worse than
useless as a guide. In order to meet the need of enquirers the Council
have collaborated with the National Book Council in the publication
of a pamphlet, of which a new edition has recently appeared,
giving a list, classified in accordance with the different branches of
our subject, of books and papers likely to be of real help both to
beginners and to more advanced students. The scale of the pam-
phlet regrettably prevents reference to several useful books and
papers, but the Council strongly advise members, especially those
who have recently joined, to obtain a copy (price Id.) from the
Assistant Secretary, and to ask the Society's officers for advice,
which they will gladly give, as to other literature.
(10) Combined Index to Proceedings and Journal. There have
been published in the past two volumes of a Combined Index of
S.P.R. Proceedings and Journal, the first covering the period 1882-
1901, and the second 1902-1913 : since then no further instalment
has been issued. It has long been felt that a new volume is impera-
tively needed, and the Council have appointed a Committee to super-
vise the preparation of a volume which, if financial and other con-
ditions permit, it is hoped to issue in 1942, the year of the Society's
Diamond Jubilee.
(11) Obituary. Among leading Members of the Society who have
died during 1940 may be mentioned (in addition to Sir Oliver Lodge
and Mr Gatty) Sir Joseph Thomson, O.M., Miss Alice Johnson, Mr
Nathaniel Wedd and Dr Crandon : obituary notices of Sir Joseph
Thomson and Miss Johnson have been published in Proceedings.
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1941
(12) Membership of the Society. During the year 12 new Members
were elected, also 2 Corresponding Members and 2 Hon. Associates
were elected. The total loss from deaths, resignations and other
causes was 47 Members and 14 Associates, leaving a net decrease of
35 Members and 10 Associates. The total membership of the
Society now stands at 606.
(13) Publications. Three Parts of the Proceedings were published
during the year, Part 161 in May, Part 162 in June, and Part 163 in
November.
The Secretary's sales to the general public amounted to £46 5s. 9d.,
an increase of £21 on last year, and to Members of the Society,
£3 lis. 0d., and through the Society's agent in the United States,
£6 13s. lOd.
(14) Meetings. The following Meetings have been held during
the year
:
17 Jan. The Sixth F. W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture. " Psychical
Research and Theology " by the Very Rev. W. R.
Matthews, D.D.
28 Feb. " Experiments in Long-Distance Telepathy between
London and Athens " by Mr C. V. C. Herbert.
20 Mar. " Recent Experiments on the Paranormal Cognition of
Drawings " by Mr W. Whately Carington.
24 Apl. " Why I do believe in Survival : A Reply to Professor
Dodds " by Mr B. Abdy Collins.
29 May " The Ultra-Perceptive Faculty " by Dr J. Hettinger.
THE PRESIDENT ON TELEPATHY AND
CLAIRVOYANCE IN RELATION TO PHILOSOPHY
(In the last number for 1940 of the quarterly journal, Philosophy,
the President discusses a number of points concerning the import-
ance for philosophers of the evidence for paranormal faculties. 1
For the interest of members who do not ordinarily come across the
philosophical journals, we reproduce here a few extracts from his
article, with the kind permission of the Editor of Philosophy. It
will be understood that these extracts are taken out of the context
of Professor Price's general argument and should be read as isolated
quotations (mainly on telepathy) which do not represent his con-
secutive presentation of his subject. For this, the whole article
—
originally a paper read to the Jowett Society, Oxford—should be
1 " Questions about Telepathy and Clairvoyance", by Professor H. H. Price :
Philosophy, Vol. XV, No. 60, Oct. 1940, pp. 363-385.
Jan.-Feb. 1941 The President on Telepathy and Clairvoyance 11
studied. Philosophy is available to members in the Society's
Library.
—
Ed.)
Psychical Research proper—the systematic attempt to investigate
supernormal phenomena by scientific methods—only began in
earnest in the year 1882, when the English Society for Psychical
Research was founded. (It is interesting to remember that one of
its founders was the Cambridge philosopher Henry Sidgwick.) For
some fifty years now the published Proceedings of the Society have
contained a mass of very carefully sifted evidence concerning super-
normal phenomena of all sorts. There are similar societies in other
countries.
Por many years the devoted labours of these bodies made little
impression. Official science, with a few illustrious exceptions, was
frankly hostile ; the educated public was for the most part con-
temptuous ; and philosophers went on writing their books about
mind and matter exactly as if supernormal phenomena had never
been heard of. But in the last thirty years or so there has been a
gradual change of opinion, partly because the mass of good evidence
has now become so great, and partly because our prejudices have
altered, and we are now willing to believe that even the physical
world is a much queerer place than our grandfathers supposed.
Most educated people are now prepared to admit the occurrence of
supernormal cognitive phenomena at least. At any rate they are
prepared to admit the reality of Telepathy and Clairvoyance, and
even to give a fair hearing to the case for Precognition. Here I
think that the educated public is quite right. The evidence for
Telepathy and Clairvoyance is both abundant and good ; and the
evidence for Precognition—the most paradoxical, perhaps, of all
supernormal phenomena—is very considerable.
I say that the educated public is now prepared to accept these
things. But the philosophers, for the most part, have lagged behind.
They do not so much reject them as ignore them. Now this attitude
seems to me indefensible. If Telepathy and Clairvoyance do occur
—
and I see no way of denying it—then surely they must be extremely
important. For it will follow that the human mind has powers
entirely different from sense-perception, introspection, memory, and
inference. If Precognition occurs, we shall probably have to revise
our theories of Time and Causation in the most drastic manner.
Even Haunting raises some pretty problems for the student of
Perception. I am afraid there is some truth in the taunt of Professor
von Mises. Philosophers, he says, are always on the side of the big
12 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1941
battalions ;
they erect the scientific conclusions of the last genera-
tion into a priori truths.
So far I have been trying to convince you that philosophers ought
to take an interest in Psychical Research, and that if they do not
they are not doing their job. But exhortation is uphill work, and
may even bring a good cause into odium. It is better to show by
examples that Psychical Research does raise philosophical problems :
problems, moreover, which are so curious and so interesting that,
once we see what they are, we shall want to discuss them, whether
we feel it is our duty or not.
In spontaneous cases, which first drew attention to the pheno-
menon [of telepathy], the agent is usually undergoing some crisis or
other ; for example, "he is involved in an accident of some kind, such
as a shipwreck or a railway accident, or he is seriously ill, or at the
point of death. He usually, but not always, has some emotional
linkage with the percipient ; for example, he is a near relative or
an intimate friend. The percipient's experience varies extremely.
Sometimes it is no more than the emergence of an unaccountable
conviction about the present situation of the agent, accompanied
by a feeling of distress or anxiety. Sometimes the experience takes
the form of a vivid and detailed visual hallucination—the seeing of
a " telepathic phantasm " or " apparition ". In the best cases the
hallucination is found to correspond in detail with the agent's
situation at the time. Sometimes, again, there is no hallucination,
but there is a vivid " sense of presence ". The percipient " feels ",
and feels intensely, that the agent is there in the room, though he
sees nothing. At other times the hallucination is auditory, or, again,
it may be both visual and auditory. In one interesting case, the
percipient wakes up in the morning and has a visual hallucination
of a half-sheet of notepaper lying on the pillow ; the paper contains
the written words " Elsie was dying last night ". The one person
whom the percipient knew with that name did in fact die on the
night in question. Sometimes, again, the " message " is conveyed
in the form of a vivid and detailed dream. In view of these great
variations, it is natural to suppose that the original telepathic
" impact "—whatever its nature may be—is always received uncon-
sciously, and that the precise form in which it reaches consciousness
depends upon the permanent idiosyncrasy or temporary state of the
percipient. Sometimes, perhaps, the impact, or rather the effect of
it upon the percipient's unconscious, is " repressed " during waking
hours, and only emerges in sleep, in the form of a dream-image.
Jan.-Feb. 1941 The President on Telepathy and Clairvoyance 13
But we are not confined to the evidence of spontaneous cases,
numerous and striking though these are. Telepathy has also been
investigated experimentally.
[A noteworthy result of card experiments]—a result which one
would never have anticipated from a study of the spontaneous cases
—is that very frequently there appears to be nothing cognitive about
the phenomenon at all, in any ordinary sense of the word " cog-
nitive " ; it seems to be purely motor. The percipient just calls out
the suit of the card, and in a long series of trials he gives the right
answer in a proportion of cases which exceeds the chance expecta-
tion. He does not see or feel anything in particular. He just utters
words, and in such and such a proportion of cases they are found
to be the right ones.
If Telepathy is not a form of knowing, but rather an experience
which is caused by and more or less closely corresponds with an
experience of someone else, how are we to conceive the causal
process involved? As we have seen, it seems to be of a purely
mental sort. Now I think this has an important philosophical
consequence. The plain man, and even the plain philosopher,
assumes with Descartes that the world of minds is divided up into
a number of separate and as it were isolated mental substances.
No mind, it is supposed, has direct causal relations with any other
mind, nor indeed with anything at all except its own brain. But
it now appears that this view is true only of the conscious part of
our mental life. When we consider unconscious mental processes
—
those which their owner is not, or perhaps cannot be, aware of by
introspection—there seems to be no such isolation. It appears that
my unconscious may on occasion stand in direct causal relations
with yours. The facts of Dual and Alternating Personality have
already made us doubt whether the unity of any one mind is quite
so absolute and unconditional as our predecessors supposed ; it now
appears that the diversity of different minds is not absolute and
unconditional either. It begins to look as if both the unity and the
isolatedness of a single mind were the result of certain special re-
strictive conditions, which are generally but not always fulfilled ;
or perhaps not even that, but rather a mere appearance arising from
the extremely limited and superficial character of ordinary self-
consciousness. The hypothesis of a " Collective Unconscious ",
common to all human minds, which certain speculative writers have
suggested, begins to look more plausible. Let us consider for a
moment what this hypothesis would amount to. What sort of unity
would this Collective Unconscious have, if it existed? So far as I
14 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jah.-Feb. 1941
can see, its unity would be purely causal. The causal relations
between Smith's mind and Brown's would be the same in kind as
the causal relations within either of them, and equally direct. The
Collective Unconscious would not be a " thing ", but rather a " field
"
of (purely mental) interaction. In fact, the phrase " Collective
Unconscious " would just be a way of saying that unconscious
events in one mind can directly produce unconscious events in any
other ; from which it would follow that the distinction between
unconscious mental events " in me " and unconscious mental events
" in you " is no longer a hard-and-fast one. Now this hypothesis
may seem altogether too speculative, and it would certainly need a
good deal of clarification before we could accept it ;
nevertheless,
the existence of Telepathy does suggest that some hypothesis on
these lines is true, or at any rate nearer the truth than the common-
sense view, which regards the mental world as a mere collection of
causally isolated mental substances.
THE PHYSICS AND PHYSIOLOGY OF FIELD DOWSING
A Statement by Mr J. C. Maby
A belated review by " C. C. L. G." of The Physics of the Divining
Rod, by T. B. Franklin, M.A., F.R.S.E., and the present writer, has
at length appeared in the S.P.R. Journal (No. 569-70). This review
not only entirely fails to describe the wide scope, thorough nature
and fundamental implications of a monograph on a subject of
unquestionable importance to students of Psychical Research—especi-
ally on the physical side ; but it is also inexact and misleading in its
very meagre statements and inferences. I trust, therefore, that the
present article, by way of rejoinder and fulfilment, may be acceptable
to those members of this society who are genuinely interested in
dowsing science and what Continental writers term radiesthesia.
For many physical phenomena of an apparently supernormal kind
would appear to be at least related to dowsing type phenomena, and
not only clairvoyance and some forms of psychometry but even the
simpler forms of telepathy are probably involved in some degree.
No one should resent fair criticism, if constructive, but an author
may properly protest against mis-statements, innuendoes and insinu-
ations, especially when he has devoted many years of very laborious
and costly research on approved scientific lines to an intricate subject,
as Mr Franklin and I have done with Dowsing—the more parti-
cularly when a critic is not, apparently, in a position of authority
with respect to the subject in hand. Moreover, in this case, our
Jan.-Feb. 1941 The Physics and Physiology of Field Dowsing 15
position is the stronger in that only two other reviewers (which have
included physicists and engineers) have thought fit to adopt a like
antagonistic attitude ;
and they were, in fact, notoriously ignorant
of the subject on which they had the temerity to write prejudicially
and also inexactly. Many others, however, even where they have
expressed certain reservations or pointed to some omission from
our published work, have been in agreement in welcoming very
warmly what is (despite a wide previous literature on Dowsing of a
semi- or pseudo-scientific kind) virtually a pioneer work ; and our
thoroughness in attacking an exceptionally wide and complex
problem has also been appreciated. Whereas, finally, we have the
express approval of most of the best known and most expert dowsers
and their investigators, at home and abroad, regarding both our
main observations and interpretations.
Had we been able to confirm the psychological hypothesis, as set
forth by Barrett, Besterman, Osty and others, including myself at an
earlier stage of our enquiry,1
we might, no doubt, have looked for a
warmer reception by the S.P.R. (typified by " C. C. L. G."). But
what we actually found as a result of several years of continuous in-
vestigation in field and laboratory, aided by many of the best British
dowsers and amateur dowsers, radio engineers, electro-medical
men and members of the British and French societies for dowsing
and radiesthesia, was quite the reverse. In short, we found that,
despite the undeniable interference or, alternatively, assistance of
what are now commonly known as autosuggestion, telepathy, clair-
voyance and psychometry in the case of one class of more "
psychic
"
diviners, the ordinary "straight" field dowser {e.g., the average
country water diviner) was either very rarely or not at all influenced
in such psychological ways. In other words, ordinary dowsing
appears to us unquestionably and demonstrably to be a special
physiological faculty which is susceptible of a purely physical
explanation on classical scientific lines. And to provide such an
explanation, once having discovered the essential clues, was the main
task which we set ourselves in our book, and that in a relatively
complete and detailed manner.
The Continental term radiesthesia, applied to ordinary dowsing,
is, therefore, seen to be essentially valid after all ; while the perpetual
contentions betwixt the physical and psychical schools of thought
are immediately referable to the two alternative forms of divining
(with the first of which our book primarily deals), namely, physio-
logical dowsing (radiesthetic) and psychological divination (extra-
1
Vide " The Psychical Element in Dowsing ", B.S.D. Journ, II. 9 (1935) and
other papers and lectures by the present writer.
16 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1941
sensorial). But of these it does not take long to ascertain that the
former is both the more usual and the more reliable ;
though, in
imaginative and suggestible people it may, if they are not very
cautious and self-critical, provide a point of initial departure towards
the latter : much as a Kilner dicyanine screen may, in some cases,
aid the development of true clairvoyance, or a crystal ball, a bowl of
water, a bed of sand and so forth, by encouraging the imagination
and inducing an auto-hypnotic, trance-like state.
The psychological aspects of divining we have gladly referred
back to Psychical Research, along with psychometry and the rest.
But it is unreasonable, to say the least of it, for parapsychologists to
resent the fact that we happen to have struck the final blows upon
a wedge of scientific observation that has at length cleft asunder the
two components of the subject. For what we have, with the in-
valuable help of many past investigators and present exponents of
dowsing, managed to do is, surely, a most charitable act towards
Psychical Research ; since this work has, if those interested will be
good enough to read our book with patience and impartiality,
effectively cleared the field of what was heretofore an impenetrable
entanglement. Henceforward, however, it should be possible to say
with some certainty which are the sheep and which the goats. And
we have, happily, been able to adapt or devise several types of
electromagnetic automatic recording instruments on the one hand,
and suitable myometers or " tonometers " on the other (replacing
or complementing the traditional forked rod, pendulum, etc.), in
order to delineate and estimate the relative strengths of the dowser's
fields of force and zones of radiation. And all these several methods
have very nicely interlocked with, and checked up against, one
another. In short, granted suitable conditions and experimental
skill, the automatic physical instruments were found to give almost
perfect correlation, qualitatively and quantitatively, with the defini-
tive reactions of the most reliable physiological dowsers, so that we
can now propose the new name Radiographic Prospection in place
of Dowsing for those who understand their business and who find
that the public or their employers shy at the traditional hocus-pocus
implicated in the terms Dowsing and Divining, much as scientists
tend to take fright at the term Spiritualism while condoning Para-
psychology or Psychical Research.
The general public and prospective clients have always main-
tained a fairly firm, if sometimes wavering, faith in the ordinary
country dowser and his modern, more scientific and better educated
counterpart ;
although they (rightly, I believe) tend to mistrust the
" psychic " diviner, who, however sincere and enthusiastic, is prone
Jan.-Feb. 1941 The Physics mid Physiology of Field Dowsing 17
to crankiness, if not indeed charlatanism, and who is a very uncertain
quantity. For, whereas the former bases his craft on certain neuro-
muscular reactions and secondary sensations of a concrete, however
delicate, sort, the latter is a moody fellow, who has runs of " luck
"
only when the spirit so moves him—like our mediums and auto-
matists. His percentage successes, therefore, may, if he is a good
diviner, average around 30%, say ;
though they will often fall to
chance-guesswork level when he is upset or out of sorts, but rise to
considerable heights on occasion when his e.s.p. faculty is at its best.
He is also naturally affected by the positive ideas of bystanders or
interested employers (by what I have called telepathic suggestion)
in what may or may not be a helpful sense, and by the mental jar-
ring of discordant or antagonistic minds ; whereas the " straight
"
physiological dowser is unaffected in this way, unless, indeed, some
bystander happens to emit powerful emotional (short-wave) radia-
tion in the Cazzamalli " psycho-radiant reflex " sense—which I have
found to cause very definite dowsing reactions in suitably sensitive
subjects at relatively close quarters. And this occurs, presumably
(fuller investigations to follow) in an ordinary physiological dowsing
sense, in accordance with our own physical theory and Cazzamalli's
shnple " telepathic " experiments ; though it may have nothing
whatever to do with detailed " psychic " telepathy of the kind which
concerns parapsychologists.
But the proof of a pudding is in its eating. I am, therefore,
pleased to be in a position to state without fear of contradiction
(clients' affidavits in hand) that since our physical theory of dowsing
and the resultant field technique were worked out, following upon
our long investigation of dowsers and dowsing, there have been only
three partial failures out of thirty radiographic prospections for
water and minerals, using only the forked rod (modern form) and
suitable reaction meters, either as to exact location, depth below
ground or relative magnitude (or yield) ; and those failures can now
be traced to purely physical complications, such as lateral re-
fraction of the radiation by inclined rock strata, for instance. And
this takes no account of my colleague's long list of remarkable and
detailed successes with his special Hertzian receiver, the data from
which he is now in a position to check by means of the rod and our new
dow'sing technique to quick advantage. . . . Our published observa-
tions and conclusions cannot, therefore, be far wide of the mark.
The War Office, Air Ministry and Admiralty in this country,
following the earlier lead of the French and German governments
some years ago, are, moreover, now showing a very real interest in
this type of work ; and several of the best modern dowsers have done
18 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan. -Feb. 1941
good service in connection with war problems and public works
during the past year. One may hope, therefore, that scientific dows-
ing has at last reached its adolescent stage, comparable with that of
wireless in the early days of Lodge, Branly and Marconi. Nor is
there any serious objection to the supposition that dowsing may, in
time, rival wireless telegraphy and telephony in value and utility
in many different fields, once the initial difficulties and scientific
inertia are transcended.
In our book, in addition to the presentation of a general thesis
on radiographic prospection and the vindication of physiological
dowsing as practised by the most reliable and sensible exponents of
an ancient and firmly established craft, we have devoted passages or
sections to other aspects of the subject, which we have endeavoured
to correlate to the central facts and physical theory. For instance,
there is a concise history of the subject from early days up to the
time of our own investigations, with special reference to physical
and scientific enquiries, followed by a moderately full discussion of
the work and ideas of the Mesmer, Reichenbach, Boirac, Abrams,
Wigelsworth, Boyd, Richards, Regnault and Eeman schools of
electro-medical thought (to mention a few outstanding names), with
regard to theories of rays, emanations, " animal magnetism ", etc.,
and their evident connection with neuro-muscular responses of the
dowsing category. Whereas, in later chapters, the biological effects
of short-wave Hertzian radiation and corpuscular electronic emana-
tions, X-rays, gamma rays, ultra-violet rays, the effects of radio-
active deposits and the probable role of cosmic radiation, etc., are
discussed together with fresh experimental evidence of those effects
on plants, animals and sensitive human beings such as dowsers and
weather sensitives. And the apparent connection between the solar
and lunar electromagnetic cycles and mean dowsing ray intensity,
on the one hand, and organic growth, vitality and certain functional
disorders such as rheumatism, arthritis, cancer and asthma, on the
other hand,' is emphasised.
Despite the insinuations of our present reviewer (which I shall
next proceed to dispose of), we can, I am confident, fairly claim
scrupulously and consistently to have adhered to classical scientific
methods of experiment and analysis throughout this long and diver-
sified investigation ; and such omissions or occasional lack of fine
detail in the presentation of the published work is due solely to lack
of sufficient space and funds to allow of expansion of a monograph
that is, it seems, already over protracted and technically detailed for
the average reader. That fact we must regret, though it cannot be
helped.
Jan.-Feb. 1941 The Physics and Physiology of Field Dowsing 19
Finally, here are my answers to " C. C. L. G.'s " subversive innuen-
does, which I must encounter for the sake of modern dowsing, even
though they would appear to be scarcely worth the powder and shot.
(1)
" Astonishing " discoveries are usually made with the aid of
simple instruments backed by careful observation and logical
reasoning. And anyone who doubts this is simply ignorant of the
history of Science. Criticism of our work on that score is, therefore,
of no real account, unless we were shown to be either scientifically
incompetent (a point that has never been raised against either Mr
Franklin or myself in the course of many years of experiment,
authorship, lecturing, etc.) or else uncommonly ingenious liars.
(2) With regard to the graphs in our book, be it noted that only
two out of twenty-eight, and those two are not true graphs, lack the
numerical scales about which our reviewer complains that only " a
few show scales of numbers at the bottom and at the left-hand edge".
His statement is, therefore, demonstrably untrue: And for the rest,
note that although it is true that the ordinate numbers were omitted
from eight of the graphs, that was done for sake of clarity in printing
small figures, as these had more than one curve (in order to demon-
strate correlations), and the scales of values for the different curves
were not similar. Whereas actual values for the same kinds of data
were given elsewhere. Again, it is also true that eight more graphs
had ordinate scales of " arbitrary units " ; the reason being simply
that absolute or standard units were in no way essential to the tests
or arguments, as will be apparent to anyone seriously interested in
the problem. Moreover, as most of these graphs represented
averaged results of many hundreds of readings or were sometimes
slightly smoothed for diagrammatic clarity, ordinate values such as
millivolts, gausses, dynes, etc., would not possess a proper meaning.
And, finally, it is quite common in the best scientific journals to
state " arbitrary units " or even omit a numerical scale altogether
in some instances.
(3) As a corollary to the foregoing, I may say that it is not at all
necessary in this class of investigation, where relative field strengths,
etc., are what matter, to calibrate all measuring instruments in
absolute or standard units. That would waste much valuable time,
cost much money and prove nothing in addition, unless, of course,
readings at one place or time are to be compared with those taken at
another place or time ; in which case we were always careful to
standardise and calibrate as need be.
(4)
" Vagueness " or " insufficiently detailed descriptions " have
also been cited by one other sceptical reviewer, and cannot, perhaps,
be entirely denied in certain passages ;
although most readers put
20 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1941
the shoe on the other foot, and complained of excessive detail and
technicality! And this only goes to show how impossible it is to
please all parties in a work of this class where (a) space and money
are limited, and (6) readers of such diverse mentality as engineers,
physicists, doctors, biologists and psychologists, not to mention un-
scientific dowsers and lay readers, must all be catered for at the same
time. So we were compelled to compromise. But this was explained
in the book {vide pp. 4-5), and an offer plainly made to provide any
interested experimenter with the requisite detailed data or descrip-
tions. Moreover, many competent persons have shared in or
witnessed most of our observations and tests, and any further appli-
cant is welcome to do so, should he fail to repeat such effects for
himself. This objection, therefore, likewise falls to the ground.
(5) As for our not having previously published these (partly
novel) results in detailed form in scientific journals, other than those
especially devoted to dowsing and radiesthesia—in which one might
suppose such a specialised subject could best be ventilated—surely
the same thing is true of many previous researches, often of the
greatest merit and importance, including some printed in the S.P.R.
Proceedings, for instance—a periodical that many " orthodox
"
scientists have and still do regard with suspicion or contempt. That
fact, however, in no way invalidates such researches. Moreover,
there were two other cogent reasons for the plan we adopted {vide,
for one, p. 4 of our book) ;
namely, that we wished first to be able
to present a single tolerably coherent picture of the whole business
all at once, including an appeal to the general reading public ;
and,
second, that no ordinary society or scientific journal would, hereto-
fore, accept papers on so " superstitious " or " mystical " a subject
as dowsing is " orthodoxically " held to be. Directly our book
appeared, however, papers and lectures were requested by several
scientific societies, including the Royal Society of Arts {vide R.S.A.
Journ. for Apr. 19th, 1940; also Psychic Science, XIX, 3). And,
but for the war, the subject is now progressing very satisfactorily.
(6) We are, of course, fully aware that more than one road leads
to Rome. And to speak of our " astonishing disregard for all other
possible explanations of the variations of the readings of (our)
instruments, upon which these claims are supposedly based ", is,
frankly speaking, sheer rubbish and scientific libel. For instance,
our instruments were so designed and/or applied to each special
problem as to give answers " Yes " or " No " to specific questions,
thus :
" Can a zoned or undulatory (standing wave) field of Hertzian
radiation, exactly corresponding in both form and relative intensity
to that defined by a skilled dowser's reactions (acting first, without
Jan.-Feb. 1941 The Physics and Physiology of Field Dowsing 21
his or our foreknowledge of what we expect in advance) in the
neighbourhood of a subterranean water vein, for instance, be
recorded clearly by such and such a radio receiver, operating at such
and such a frequency ?
" And we found that the answer to this and
many similar questions was undoubtedly in the affirmative. Hence,
the only speculative element in our work has been not with regard
to the physical or physiological facts {e.g., the objectivity of such
electromagnetic patterned fields and the dowser's reactions thereto,
which we carefully guarded against possible autosuggestion, tele-
pathic transfer or normal sensory indicia), but with regard to the
ultimate explanation of some of those facts {e.g., the initial energising
factor, whether of cosmical, solar, geomagnetic or artificial origin,
or the predisposing physiological cause in dowsing sensitivity). Nor
have we been dogmatic on such points, although we felt justified in
making temporary hypothetical deductions from the sum total of
the evidence available, which is very considerable.
(7) If our critic were better versed than he appears to be in the
subjects of dowsing and radiology, he would not, I think, venture
upon his concluding witticism about a dowser's muscles getting
" jammed by all the short-wave radio now being broadcast ". For
the fact is, apparently, that such artificially generated energy
should, and does, contribute to the resultant Hertzian fields (that
concern the dowser) surrounding oscillating conductors, and hence
contributes also (though without call for precise electronic syntonisa-
tion) to the dowser's neuro-muscular response in those fields. But,
owing to the fact that short-wave broadcasts projected horizontally
along the Earth's surface are not appreciably penetrative in a vertical
direction, as contrasted to the downcoming vertical ( ? cosmic or
ionospheric) radiation that we have been led to postulate (and for the
existence of which there is other " classical " evidence outside our
own work), such artificial sources are not likely to energise sub-
terranean conductors to any extent. If, however, short-wave
oscillators of an artificial kind or certain other forms of electro-
magnetic machinery are near at hand, the natural dowsing fields
will be confused thereby, as my colleague has shown by tests before
a critical scientific meeting and also at the B.B.C. television station
in London. And much else might be said on this head that would,
however, be too lengthy and out of place here.
May I, therefore, conclude this brief description of our work on
dowsing, which was undertaken under the aegis of the British
Society of Dowsers, and my answer to " C. C. L. G.'s " criticisms of
our book by asking those who are genuinely interested in this un-
commonly fruitful and interesting subject to be so good as to read
22 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan. -Feb. 1941
the book itself. Or, alternatively, Mr Franklin, I, or Col. A. H. Bell,
President of the B.S.D., would, I am sure, be very glad to answer
any enquiries direct or to arrange for suitable demonstrations of the
phenomena in question, which are perfectly objective and repeat-
able to order, and hence " scientific ".
J. Cecil Maby, B.Sc, A.R.C.S., F.R.A.S.,
Member of the British Society of Dowsers
Investigation Committee.
(Some delay in reviewing the book was due to the death of Mr
Oliver Gatty, who, as an investigator well versed in physics, had it
under consideration at the time when his activities were abruptly
ended. There is no substance in Mr Maby's suggestion that the
Society desires to discount normal scientific explanations of pheno-
mena, and, indeed, Mr Maby has himself more than once criticised
the Society in the opposite sense.
—
Ed.)
CORRESPONDENCE
Paranormal Cognition of Drawings
Sir,—I am staggered by Mr Carington's letter in the November-
December Journal, and as much by its tone as its contents. My
query related to Mr Carington's report, not to his investigation, for
I hoped that the omission to which I pointed was in his recording
and not in his experimental technique. It now appears that the
latter explanation is the true one and moreover that Mr Carington
defends his procedure. What are we to make of this and of Mr
Carington's tone? " I did not regard . . . and do not propose "—
does the Perrott Student (whom I congratulate most sincerely)
really intend off his own bat to make such fundamental changes in
psychical research methods? Mr Carington's few lines in fact con-
tain some revolutionary propositions. He has conducted an experi-
ment based on the display of given drawings at given times ; the
whole thing rests on the statement that the specified drawing was
in fact displayed on the specified occasion ; and I have asked for
evidence of this. It is certainly a radical innovation to resent such
an inquiry, and I am afraid that Mr Carington is being ingenuous
in calling my request " ingenious '",
for nothing could be more
elementary ; and I fear that he is something more than ingenuous
in his deplorable and quite irrelevant reference to the veracity of
his wife and himself. Mr Carington knows better than that. He
knows, for instance, that control is required to guard against error
as much as against fraud ; he also knows that it is improper to
Jan.-Feb. 1941 Correspondence 23
claim exceptions and immunities for oneself. Mr Carington's last
sentence contains the most remarkable proposition of all : that an
investigator's ipse dixit should be accepted failing " positive ante-
cedent evidence of charlatanry " on his part. Shades of Sidgwick
and Hodgson—shades, indeed, of pretty well everybody! Nobody
wants to have the canons of scientific methodology rehearsed again
at this date, and I will merely state once more, as one of the funda-
mental bases of scientific procedure, the rule that every non-
repeatable experiment must be carried out under conditions which
are proof against error (including fraud, which in the last analysis
is a form of error). This rule has been defended by the S.P.R.
against all comers, and I am sure that Mr Carington does not dispute
it. Why, then, the aggrieved tone of his letter, and why did he
fail to take the very obvious precaution in question—for he cer-
tainly does not expect us to take seriously his suggestion that no
reliable witness Avas available in Cambridge?
Yours, etc., Theodore Besterman.
(Unless the evidence of a wife is to be wholly ruled out of court
in experimental research, as in criminal law, the question at issue
seems to be whether it was desirable to have an expert witness in
this case.
—
Ed.)
Sir,—The recent letters of Mr Besterman and Mr Whately Caring-
ton to the Journal (Vol. XXXI, pp. 136, 209) raise questions of
considerable interest.
So far as the case under discussion is concerned I have no doubt
that Mr Carington acted very wisely in confining all knowledge of
the original drawings to himself and his wife. Nor would anyone
who knows Mr Carington suggest for a moment that the facts of
his experiments are otherwise than he has reported them.
But at the present stage of Psychical Research it seems to me
that experimenters should take every precaution to safeguard them-
selves against any possible accusation that their work contains loop-
holes through which the data could have been deliberately falsified.
It is of course possible for an experimenter to take a long-range
view and argue as follows : "I have conducted such and such
experiments and obtained results which I have described. I have
in my report given a clear and adequate account of the precautions
taken to prevent normal leakage. If people suggest that I could
have faked the data I am not interested since, if the results are
genuine, as I believe them to be, they will sooner or later be verified
by other experimenters and their truth be universally established."
24 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1941
Now while this is a perfectly tenable position, and one which may
be justified by posterity, I do not think that its adoption is likely
to be in the best interests of present-day Psychical Research. For,
at present, experience shows that we are not able to guarantee that
results obtained by one experimenter will be confirmed by others
even when the same subject is employed, and this may probably be
the case for many decades to come.
Unless there is adequate control of the individual experimenter
it seems to me that there is nothing to prevent a host of intelligent
but unscrupulous persons who desire kudos for themselves from
conducting faked investigations which claim to confirm, say, the
low-scoring observations of Murphy and McTave. This might result
in a deplorable state of chaos which would set back the clock of
Psychical Research for generations. It is to be hoped therefore that
all experimenters who obtain positive results will invite other
responsible investigators to witness their experiments and to super-
vise every detail of their technique. Such collaboration does not
of course obviate the possibility of collusion of a fraudulent kind
between investigators, but it does minimise the opportunities for
fraud on the part of an individual experimenter. But it avails
nothing to have witnesses unless such witnesses are sufficiently
trained to detect loopholes both for fraud and for ordinary sources
of error.
Yours, etc., S. G. Soal.
(It is one of the duties of the officials of the S.P.R. to verify the
observations and experiments of other members, when requested to
do so. There is this advantage in obtaining verification by them,
wherever practicable, that it is a recognised principle that officials
are presumed to carry out their duties properly, unless there is
positive evidence to the contrary. Verification by the Research
Officer or other official of the S.P.R. carries the guarantee not only
of his personal competence and integrity, but of the long-established
reputation of the Society.—W. H. Salter, Hon. Sec.)
Re-organisation of the American S.P.R.
As we go . to press we have received a most welcome cablegram
from two of our American members, Mrs Allison and Mr Seward
Collins, to the effect that there had been a complete re-organisation
of the American S.P.R. with Mr George Hyslop as the new
President. On behalf of all our members we send the re-organised
Society our heartiest good wishes.
No. 573—Vol. XXXII March 1941
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was held
at 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 26 Feb-
ruary 1941, at 3 p.m., the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E.,
in the Chair.
The following Members were present : Mr Staveley Bulford, Miss
L. M. Corry, Mrs Oliver Gatty, Mrs A. P. Goldney, Sir Robert
Gower, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Miss I. Jephson, Sir Lawrence Jones,
Bart., Mrs K. Richmond, Mr W. H. Salter and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell
;
also Mr Kenneth Richmond (Hon. Associate).
The Hon. Secretary read the Notice convening the Meeting.
As the Hon. Treasurer was absent on active service and the
Deputy Hon. Treasurer unable to be present, the Hon. Secretary
presented the accounts, together with the Report. He said that
the loss of the tenancy of the upper part of the building was a
serious matter for the Society, and there was at present little
prospect of getting another tenant. He did not however think that
this would seriously hamper the work of the Society, as the Research
Endowment Fund now bore few expenses. The acting Treasurer,
Mr Saltmarsh, had conferred with the trustees of the Research
Endowment Fund, and also with the trustees of the Myers Me-
morial Fund, and it had been agreed that to some extent these two
Funds should as a temporary measure help out the General Fund,
in case serious difficulties arose, which so far had not been the case.
Although we had got to go rather cautiously, he did not think we
need for financial reasons curtail our programme either of meetings,
publication, or of research.
B
26 Journal of Society for Psychical Research MARCH 1941
There seemed to be a great decline in interest in spontaneous
cases—he himself had received very few since the outbreak of War,
and there had been a decline even before the War. Again, there
was undoubtedly a very considerable dearth of mediums worth
investigation, and if any members heard of promising results with
mediums he hoped they would report them to the officials of the
Society. We could then, even under war conditions, carry out
investigation, if there were any suitable material.
As to meetings, there had been quite a good programme up to the
summer holidays last year, but owing to the Blitzkrieg in the
autumn, meetings had then been suspended. Efforts were being
made to arrange some meetings this year. It had occurred to him
that members living outside London, in places like Oxford and
Cambridge, and some other towns as well might be able to organise
meetings in those towns.
A discussion followed, in which several Members took part, when
suggestions were made as to possible lines of research, and of papers
for meetings.
Mr Salter moved the adoption of the Balance Sheet and the
Annual Report. This resolution was seconded by Sir Robert Gower,
and carried unanimously.
The Chairman announced that there were no candidates for
election to membership of the Council, other than the six members
who retired by rotation and sought re-election. The following six
members were accordingly unanimously elected : Professor C. D.
Broad, Mr W. Whately Carington, Professor E. R. Dodds, Miss Ina
Jephson, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E.. and Dr Maurice B.
Wright.
Messrs Miall, Savage, Avery & Co. were re-elected Auditors for
the forthcoming year.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 381st Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 26 February 1941, immediately
after the Annual General Meeting, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton
G.B.E., in the Chair. There were also present : Sir Robert Gower,
Miss I. Jephson, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr W. H. Salter and
Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also Mr Kenneth Richmond, Editor of the
Journal, Mr C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer, and Miss E. M.
Horsell, Assistant Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
march 1941 Annual General Meeting 27
Professor Henry Habberley Price was re-elected President for
the year 1941-1942.
Mr W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Secretary, Admiral the Hon.
A. C. Strutt, E.N., Hon. Treasurer, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh, Deputy
Hon. Treasurer, and Mrs. W. H. Salter Hon. Editor of Proceedings.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication, for the period of the War :
The President, Professor C. D. Broad, Dr T. W. Mitchell and the
Hon. Editor of Proceedings.
House and Finance Committee : Miss Ina Jephson, Mr G. W.
Lambert, Miss I. Newton, Mr W. H. Salter, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh and
Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Library Committee : Professor E. R. Dodds, Sir Lawrence Jones,
Bart., Miss I. Newton and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Corresponding Members and Hon. Associates were elected for the
year 1941-1942 as follows :
'
Corresponding Members : President Nicholas M. Butler, Dr Max
Dessoir, Professor P. Janet, Dr C. G. Jung, Count Carl von Klinc-
kowstroem, M. Maurice Maeterlinck, Dr Gardner Murphy, Professor
T. K. Oesterreich, Dr J. B. Rhine, Dr R. Tischner and Mr C. Vett.
Honorary Associates : Miss H. Carruthers, Miss H. A. Dallas,
Mr J. Arthur Hill, Professor R. F. A. Hoernle, the Rev. W. S.
Irving, Dr Eva Morton, Mr Kenneth Richmond, Professor C. M.
Sage, Mr G. H. Spinney, Dr A. Tanagras, Dr W. H. Tenhaeff,
Professor R. H. Thouless, Miss Nea Walker and Dr Th. Wereide.
OBITUARY
Dr John F. Thomas
The death of Dr John F. Thomas of Detroit, Michigan, on 21
November, 1940, from the result of an auto collision not far from
the Orchard Lake cottage which figured in his books, brought to a
close the career of one of the foremost figures in American psychical
research.
Dr Thomas was born in Parker City, Pennsylvania, in 1874. He
studied at the University of Michigan where he received the degree
of Bachelor of Laws in 1898. Subsequently he studied psychology
and education at the University of Chicago, Columbia, Harvard,
and at Duke University. He received the degree of Master of Arts
in 1915. In 1933, after working for several years on a psychical
research project at Duke, he was given the degree of Doctor of
Philosophy.
28 Journal of Society for Psychical Research MARCH 1941
This is probably the first doctorate awarded in the United States
for a study in this field. His thesis, An Evaluative Study of the
Mental Content of Certain Trance Phenomena, was a meticulous
examination into the paranormal content of statements of trance
mediums. Proxy sittings were used as a method of approach and
devious means were employed to guard the identity of the investi-
gator and to exclude normal knowledge. Several new methods of
evaluation and treatment were developed by Dr Thomas in the
study of his data. Two less formidable volumes by Dr Thomas
were published by the Boston Society for Psychic Research. The
first, published in 1929, was entitled Case Studies Dealing With
Survival. It contained some of the crucial material brought to light
in 214 sittings with 17 mediums, 16 of them in England. Most of
the material centred around the personality of Dr Thomas's deceased
wife, E. L. T. A second volume, Beyond Normal Cognition, published
in 1937, contains further proxy material, much of it received through
Mrs Leonard, together with an exposition of Dr Thomas's method of
evaluation. Both volumes contain excellent cross-correspondences
and intriguing evidence bearing on survival. A third study of trance
mediumship was in preparation at the time of his death but was not
ready for publication.
Dr Thomas was working for his doctor's degree at Duke University
at the time of the first beginnings of the investigation there into
jjarapsychology, under the direction of Professor William McDougall.
Dr J. B. Rhine and Dr Louisa E. Rhine collaborated with him in
producing his Case Studies. Professor William McDougall wrote the
foreword to Beyond Normal Cognition. Dr Thomas was a member
of the S.P.R. for many years and a member of the Boston S.P.R.
from its beginnings. His interest in the field went back before 1900,
but his interest was casual until after a sitting with Mrs M. M. Soule
of Boston in 1926. Shortly thereafter he decided to undertake a
cautious and thorough investigation of the trance mediumship field.
Like William James, he described the research as " dredging in a
dirty sea " ; but he found that enough of value was brought up to
justify continued dredging.
One of Dr Thomas's hopes, which he did not live to see realized,
was to see a union re-established between scientific psychical re-
search organizations in America and England. Terminating after
the death of Richard Hodgson in complete separation, Dr Thomas
believed that the research in these countries would benefit greatly
by a strong unified organization of research groups in both.
Aside from his work in psychical research and psychology, Dr
Thomas had a distinguished career in the field of Michigan education.
MAECH 1941 Experiments in Telepathy 29
To those who knew him personally, Dr Thomas was an efficient
and indefatigable worker, but one so self-effacing and quiet that
he never received the publicity which should have been his due. He
was a keen psychologist, possessed of extraordinary insight and
shrewd judgement. His dry sense of humour, and his kindly sympa-
thetic helpfulness, endeared him to his friends. His careful sug-
gestions were valued and appreciated by those who worked with
him in psychical and educational fields. I feel fortunate to have
known him and to have worked with him, to whatever small extent.
Edmond P. Gibson
EXPERIMENTS IN TELEPATHY WITH DR. GILBERT
MURRAY
By H. de G. Salter
This is an account of some experiments in telepathy which were
made in May, 1931, when my husband and I were the guests of
Dr Gilbert and Lady Mary Murray at their house, Yatscombe,
Boar's Hill, Oxford. It is taken from a lecture I delivered in the
Society's rooms on the 16th November, 1938. The account follows
verbatim the contemporary notes made by Lady Mary Murray and
my husband, except that in two cases initials are substituted for
names, and that I have added, in square brackets, some notes to
explain allusions to persons and things mentioned. I have also given
consecutive serial numbers to the experiments for convenience of
reference.
The experiments took place on the evenings of the 23rd and 24th
May, and the conditions under which they were made are described
in notes made by myself and my husband later in the evening of
the 23rd. On the morning of the 25th May my husband and I made
certain experiments between ourselves to test the possibility of
auditory hyperaesthesia, which has been suggested as an explana-
tion of the results of earlier experiments with Dr Murray : see
Proc, Vols. XXIX and XXXIV. His contemporary notes of the
tests made on the 25th May are printed at the end of the records
of the experiments of the two previous evenings.
My note of the 23rd May is as follows :
The experiments took place in the drawing-room of Mr
Murray's house, Yatscombe, Boar's Hill, Oxford. Mr Murray
left the room and the door was closed before the subject was
chosen. After the subject had been chosen and written down
Lady Mary Murray went to the door and opened it. The floor
B 2
30 Journal of Society for Psychical Research MARCH 1941
outside was uncarpeted. I noticed that Mr Murray's footsteps
were always clearly audible coming towards us from some dis-
tance ; I counted as a rule seven footsteps before lie reached
the drawing-room door, and never, I think, less than six.
After he entered the room nothing was said by any experi-
menter, except what has been noted in the record, until after
each experiment was concluded.
This is my husband's note of the same date with a sketch plan :
There were present (besides G. M.) Lady Mary, Helen and self.
Dining - Room
—jjDooRT]—
ASSAGEj
FIRE
LADY M
CHAIR
n
SELF
H
CHAIR
Door
[Note. —Dotted lines — and words in square brackets
added later to explain position of dining-room.]
On each occasion G. M. [Dr Gilbert Murray] went out, shut-
ting the door behind him, the rest of us remaining seated.
Nothing was said in his presence as a clue to the subject of
the experiment, except that in one or two cases the agent was
indicated beforehand, e.g., when I was agent.
During G. M.'s absence the conversation was in low voices.
I do#
not think it could normally be heard even by a person
standing just outside the closed door of the room.
When the subject had been chosen and noted in writing,
Lady Mary went and opened the door, returning to her seat
at once without a word.
Within a few seconds of the door opening G. M.'s steps could
be heard coming along the passage (uncarpeted). I counted
the steps every time and there were never less than seven before
he entered the room. There was no doubt in my mind that he
was at some distance from the door when opened by Lady Mary.
MARCH 1941 Experiments in Telepathy 31
On entering the room he took the agent's hand. Sometimes
the answer came at once, e.g., " Switzerland and glaciers ". In
the case when I was agent he held my hand for (I judge) 30
seconds before speaking. There was never any fishing or beating
about the bush. None of the incidents had been discussed
between the Murrays and ourselves.
Although these notes merely state that, before each subject was
chosen, Dr Murray went from the drawing-room into the passage,
the drawing-room door being closed, it was understood that he went
into the dining-room and remained there till summoned, and I have
no reason to suppose that this was not the case. I now pass to the
record of the experiments.
Date. May 23, 1931.
Present : G. M., Lady Mary Murray, W. H. Salter, H. de G.
Salter.
1
H. S. I think of a time long ago when Mr Murray was with
us in Switzerland and there was a trapeze outside the hotel,
and he hung upside down and all the money fell out of his
pockets. We were amused.
G. M. A feeling of old times and your father and mother
and Jane Harrison.
[Note by H. S. The date of the incident, as stated by Mr Murray,
was " long ago ", about 1900. My father and mother were there.
Jane 'Harrison was not a member of the party at the time of the
trapeze incident, but she joined us shortly afterwards. It will be
observed that Mr Murray got the general atmosphere right, but
could not get any impression of the particular scene. He told me
afterwards in conversation that he did not remember the incident.]
2
H. S. A play I went to see the other day ; Robert Browning
going to see Elizabeth and pulling up all the blinds to let the
sun in, at Wimpole Street.
G. M. No.
3
H. S. Something fantastic. H. G. Wells in a garden dancing
a Highland Fling and Lady Astor looking on.
G. M. A faint impression of H. G. Wells, don't know what
he's doing, seems to be looking rather fat and smiling.
32 Journal of Society for Psychical Research march 1941
[Note by H. S. The only impression clearly obtained was of H. G.
Wells and a general impression that the incident was cheerful.]
4
H. S. (subject suggested by M. M.). Einstein receiving his
degree.
G. M. Oh, I know this, there's great applause, it's Einstein
having his degree.
(After he had been told it was M. M.'s suggestion.) I did
suspect it wasn't Helen.
5
H. S. I think of my mother climbing in Switzerland and a
guide pulling over a crevasse and she fell down and hung on a
rope.
G. M. This feels like Switzerland and glaciers and things.
(Not an incident I know?) I should think it was your mother
falling into a crevasse.
[Note by H. S. This incident occurred when I was quite a small
child. I was not with my mother at the time, nor was Mr Murray.
Whether he had ever been told the incident I cannot say.]
6
H. S. S. M. and myself riding together on a very fat cob,
bareback.
G. M. No, a faint impression of a fat and rather gaily dressed
woman.
[Note by H. S. S. M. and I were playfellows as children and used
often to ride together on a fat cob. The only impression clearly
conveyed here seems to have been the idea of fatness ; the cob was
in fact a female.]
7
I
H. S. (subject suggested by M. M.). Jane Harrison angry
with Belloc in the study at Barford.
G. M. [to H. S.] I think this isn't you. Well, the thing I'm
getting is something that I don't think you know. Is it you?
If it's you, Mary, it's Miss Harrison and Belloc, when she bit
her lip.
8
W. H. S. Macbeth and the Three Witches.
G. M. The thing that comes to me is " Her husband's to
Aleppo gone, Master of the Tiger ".
MARCH 1941 Experiments in Telepathy 33
[Note by H. S. The answer is of course appropriate, the words
being spoken by one of the witches in " Macbeth ".]
9
M. M. I think of the cathedral at Lund in 1916 when they
were apologising because the little privatdozent only spoke
German.
G. M. I think it's something to do with Sweden. Is it?
M. M. Yes.
G. M. That little man shifting about in the cathedral at
Lund, because he could only speak German.
(He added here, " I think that's because there is a roll,
diploma or something from Sweden in the hall.")
Contemporary note by W. H. S. There was lying in the hall a
roll of cartridge paper wrapped round the middle with brown paper.
Length about 30 inches. It had not come through post but by
hand, and was in fact a drawing by Emery Walker of Hertford
College ;
nothing to do with Sweden or to suggest a connection
with Sweden. A real Swedish Diploma had come by post a few
days before.
[Later note by H. S. This is a good example of G. M. inventing
something to use as a peg on which to hang a veridical impression.
Compare the incident of the horses' hooves quoted in Proc. XXIX,
pp. 60, 92, 93.]
10
M. M. Stephen [Dr Murray's son] arriving here about 2 in
the morning with his wife and a strange mottled greyhound.
G. M. No, I shan't get this. I've got a feeling of being up
late, tiredness.
M. M. That's quite right.
G. M. No, I don't think I can get any more. I think now
of a student's party in Sweden.
M. M. No.
Date. May 24, 1931. Experiments began 8.18 p.m.
Present : M. M. and H. de G. S., on sofa ; W. H. S. in chair opposite
fire; G. M.
11
H. S. Cassandra going into the palace to be murdered.
[I quoted a few words from Aeschylus's Agamemnon.]
G. M. Nothing at all.
34 Journal of Society for Psychical Research maech 1941
12
H. S. Edmund Gosse dancing round the drawing-room at
Selwyn Gardens [my father's house at Cambridge] after tea,
saying " So glad they're gone, they're gone."
G. M. Impression of your parents' house at Cambridge.
H. S. Yes.
G. M. The drawing-room. Some one holding forth. No,
I don't think I can get it. Sort of literary man.
H. S. Yes.
[Note by H. S. The incident was a real one and happened when
I was a child. I do not think Mr Murray is likely ever to have
heard of it. Here the place was rightly named and the fact that a
literary man was concerned.]
13
M. M. An old Greek scholar who went to Harvard hospital
to have his burnt hand dressed.
(This experiment was not tried owing to a telephone dis-
turbance and a visitor. After the visitor had departed, experi-
ments were resumed.)
14
H. S. " Lars Porsena of Clusium
By the Nine Gods he swore."
[The first lines of Macaulay's " Horatius ".]
G. M. Can't get anything.
15
M. M. Mrs B. (the visitor) on the. Lusitania.
G. M. (takes H. S.'s hands). I don't think this is you.
H. S. No.
G. M. Faint impression of Mrs B. I should guess the Lusi-
tania.
[Note by H. S. I think M. M. was deliberately trying something
easy to get back into a good " atmosphere " after the interruption.]
16
H. S. Come into the garden, Maud,
For the black bat night has flown. (Tennyson.)
G. M. (entering). This feels like a poem, " Come into the
garden, Maud."
MARCH 1941 Experiments in Telepathy 35
17
W. H. S. I'll take a classical subject which is also a picture.
Turner's picture of Ulysses deriding Polyphemus.
G. M. It isn't a picture is it ?
W. H. S. Yes.
G. M. I don't think I can get it. A sort of Turner picture,
effects of light.
[Note by W. H. S. " Effects of Light " are of course characteristic
of Turner's pictures : the Polyphemus is a conspicuous example.]
The note which my husband made on the 25th May of our experi-
ments that day to test the possibilities of hyperesthesia runs as
follows :
" To test the results of last night's experiments from the point of
view of hyperesthesia, Helen read a passage taken at random from
a book (Pride and, Prejudice) consisting of a single sentence. This
she did three times. The first time I went into the dining-room and
stood by the sideboard, the dining-room door open. The second
time I stood at the end of the passage (from the drawing-room).
The third time outside the closed door of the drawing-room. The
first two times I heard absolutely nothing. The third time I heard
the sound of Helen's voice, but not a word.
" As a further test Helen went out of the drawing-room and stood
in the passage about three yards from the closed drawing-room door.
I took a book at random (Harry Richmond) and read from paragraph
on p. 216 beginning '*
I wanted bloom " down to line 13 of paragraph,
life and death ", at which point Helen came in. I began reading
at about the level of voice used in the room last night and got
gradually louder and louder ; at the point Helen came in I was
fairly declaiming and talking much louder than in ordinary con-
versation. Helen said she caught the words " almost invariable
"
(11. 9 and 10), and that these were the first she heard distinctly.
She thought that soon after she went out she heard the word
" down " and this is in fact in line 2 of the paragraph. I was
standing in the middle of the drawing-room facing the closed door
as I read. The house was quiet. During the experiments last night
neither Helen nor I faced the door when speaking.
Third test . I sat in the chair in the drawing-room facing the fire,
i.e., away from the door, and read from a book A Doll's House,
Archer's translation, p. 60, Hehner's long speech. Helen stood
outside the dining-room door. She came in at the end and said,
" Did you read the word '
possible ' " ? The word " impossible
"
36 Journal of Society for Psychical Research MARCH 1941
appears towards the end of the speech [line 11]. I began reading
at the level of last night's talk and gradually raised my voice a
little, but not much."
Hyperaesthesia, or some form of unconscious sense-perception,
has always been accepted by Dr Murray as an explanation, or
partial explanation, of the results of experiments with him : indeed
he himself put it forward in his Presidential Address (Proc, Vol.
XXIX, pp. 61 and 62). The evidence for and against, derived from
the first series of experiments with him, is further discussed at
pp. 73-79 of the same volume. In the second series of experiments
reported in Proc, Vol. XXXIV, the distance between agents and
percipient was greater to an extent rendering any hyperaesthesia
of the recognised senses a much less probable explanation.
There is not, I think, in the experiments I am reporting any
instance parallel to the cases of apparent mishearing quoted on
pp. 73-75 of Vol. XXIX, which would provide internal evidence
for hyperaesthesia, and the tests by my husband and myself, which
have just been described, convinced us that a very high degree of
hyperaesthesia would have to be postulated, to account in any
degree for the results. So far as these particular experiments go,
we see no reason to postulate it.
The interruption on the second evening was most regrettable, as
it cut short the experiments and prevented such variation of con-
ditions as might otherwise have been attempted, with a view to
obtaining clues to some of the problems awaiting settlement.
In the two evenings seventeen experiments were attempted and in
sixteen an answer was given. No. 13, which was interrupted before
an answer could be given, has been excluded from the analysis given
below. In this analysis I have classified the subjects as follows :
I. Literary or artistic.
II. Incidents personally connected with Dr Murray.
III. Incidents not personally connected with him, but known
to him.
IV. Other real incidents.
V. Imaginary incidents.
The degrees of success are graded thus : A correct or nearly so,
B correct as to some notable element, C mainly incorrect, but not
entirely, D complete failure.
There were three agents, M. M. = Lady Mary Murray ; W. H. S.
= my husband ; H. S. = myself. In some instances where I acted
as agent, the subject was suggested by Lady Mary Murray : these
I have classified as if she had been the agent.
march 1941 Experiments in Telepathy 37
Table I
Experiment No. Subject Agent Grade
23/5/31 1 II H. S. B
2 I H. S. •
D
3 V H. S. B
4 II M. M. A
rr
0 t~\t
IV A
6 IV H. S. c
7 III M. M. A
8 I W. H. S. A
9 II M. M. A
10 II M. M. C
24/5/31 11 I H. S. D
12 IV
TT CI
H. S. B
(interruption)
14 I H. S. D
15 III M. M. A
16 I H. S. A
17 I W. H. S. B
Evening of 23/5/31 - 5A 2B 2C ID =10
„ 24/5/31 - 2A 2B 2D = 6
Combined - 7A 4B 2C 3D =16
It will be noted that the second evening was less successful than
the first. This is probably due to the curtailment of the experi-
ments on the second evening, in consequence of the interruption,
since in each evening the first few experiments were below average.
Table II. Grade and Subject
I II III IV V
A 2 2 2 1 7
B 1 1 1 1 4
C 1 1 2
D 3 3
6 4 2 3 1
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research march 1941
While too much stress must not be laid on the distribution of
successes and failures in experiments on so small a scale, it is perhaps
surprising that the only three complete failures in all the experi-
ments occurred in Group I, where the subjects were literary or
artistic. In none of these three instances was an answer attempted.
Table III. Grade and Agent
M. M. H. S. W. H. S.
A 4 2 1 7
B 3 1 4
C 1 1 2
D 3 3
5 9 2 16
For some reason I was less successful than either of the other
two agents : my three complete failures were the three failures in
the " literary " group already mentioned. Even, however, if these
be disregarded, and only Groups II, III, IV, covering real incidents,
be counted, Lady Mary Murray was obviously more successful than
I was.
It may be said of these experiments that they prove nothing, and
I should be the first person to admit that they were not carried out
under laboratory conditions ; at the same time both my husband
and I are firmly of opinion that the conditions were good enough
to exclude any form of normal leakage : if Dr Murray could over-
hear what the agents said to each other in the drawing-room with
the door shut, then his auditory hyperaesthesia is certainly not, in
the ordinary sense, normal.
Nor of course are experiments with " free " material, and on a
small scale at that, capable of being evaluated with precision. But
there are some problems regarding telepathy which it seems to me
are more likely to be solved by the use of "free" material of
intrinsic interest to agent and percipient than by any other method.
AN EXAMINATION OF MR J. C. MABY'S STATEMENT
CONCERNING A REVIEW IN THE JOURNAL OF " THE
PHYSICS OF THE DIVINING ROD "
With much surprise and some regret I have read Mr Maby's State-
ment which was printed in the last number of the Journal. This
resulted -apparently from the Society's Review (Journal, Vol.
march 1941 " The Physics of the Divining Rod " 39
XXXI, p. 215) of The Physics of the Divining Rod, by Mr
Franklin and himself which I was asked to write. My first reaction
was to ignore Mr Maby's Statement which seemed to me to savour of
abuse : e.g. he accuses the reviewer of subversive innuendoes,
which he must encounter for the sake of modern dowsing, and says
he may properly protest against mis-statements, innuendoes and
insinuations, and more particularly so when a critic is not apparently
in a position of authority with respect to the subject in hand.
Since, however, the Society has thought fit to devote some eight
pages of the Journal to Mr Maby's disparagement of my Review
(doubtless on account of the interesting light which it throws on his
views regarding what he considers he has accomplished in the
direction of establishing a rational and scientific basis for some of
the phenomena of dowsing) I consider it is in the interests of the
Society that I should take a little time and trouble in examining
Mr Maby's conclusions, and ignore the abuse.
The Society invited a physicist, and not a dowser, to do the
reviewing because the chief novelty in the book is a claim that
physical apparatus in the vicinity of electrically conducting bodies
(including flowing water) is affected by them through certain rays
or radiations, and that it is these which are responsible for some, at
least, of the " dowsing reactions."
The importance of such a discovery, if true, can hardly be over-
estimated. On p. 421 of The Physics of the Divining Rod it
is stated :
" Every conductor in air appears to be surrounded by
a very local field of ionising |>articles " ; and again on the same
page : "In the conductors themselves points of reaction can be
found at certain positions which also change at intervals ; these
points of reaction and their changes of position correspond to
standing waves upon the conductors." These assertions are
opposed to those of physicists based on ordinary laboratory ex-
perience with conductors in air, and, if true, would require some
explanation of why no such effects are being noticed in the labora-
tory every day, especially when one considers that " conductors
in air " are a part of the apparatus used in every single electrical
measurement.
Can a reviewer be blamed, when he is presented with reiterated
claims made in technical language, of whose meaning he can have
no doubt, and which are opposed to common experience, for pointing
out the fact that no single record of any observation which might
justify such claims is either given in the text or specifically referred
to in print elsewhere? One gathers, on reading pages 19 and 20 of
Mr Maby's Statement, that his reply is " yes," and he proceeds to
40 J'ournal of Society for Psychical Research march 1941
show how in seven numbered paragraphs which contain many
unsupported assertions requiring careful consideration.
(1) Of all the " astonishing " discoveries which have been made
in Physics during the last (say) ten years, I wonder whether Mr
Maby, or indeed anyone else, could mention three which were " made
with the aid of simple instruments backed by careful observation
and logical reasoning." Surely it is true that, where ionising
particles and electromagnetic radiation are the subjects of novel
experiments, the apparatus required is, in general, both expensive
and complicated.
(2) and (3) (I quote) " With regard to the graphs in our book, be
it noted that only two out of twenty-eight, and these two are not
true graphs, lack the numerical scales about which our reviewer
complains that only '
a few show scales of numbers at the bottom
and at the left-hand edge.' His statement is therefore demonstrably
untrue." I have the book before me and note that there are 28
graphs of which not more than 18 are described as referring to
physical measurements in the accepted meaning of this expression.
Of these eighteen, no less than fourteen show but one numbered
scale—the time scale at the bottom. The four remaining graphs
have indeed two numbered scales, but no actual readings are
shown, the ordinate being in every case a mean or " smoothed
"
value. It seems unfortunate, to say the least, that the only
example of a direct observation which Mr Maby has put forward
in support of his views, an observation undoubtedly made by
himself on his own book, should be entirely erroneous, the only
fortunate feature being the ease with which, in this case, the ob-
servation may be repeated at any time by any of our members
who have the good fortune to possess a copy of " The Physics of
the Divining Rod."
(4) In this paragraph Mr Maby tells us that he and his collaborator
Mr Franklin were compelled to compromise as regards the detail
and technicality of the work because readers of diverse occupations
and mentality must all be catered for at the same time.
But why must they? Most of the great scientific discoveries in
our times were first published in technical form ;
monographs and
popular expositions came later when general acceptance of the
new material, as a consistent part of our knowledge of the subject,
was attained.
(5) I am not aware that any accounts of discoveries in Physics,
other than those of the authors of The Physics of the Divining Rod,
have first appeared in connection with investigations of subjects
usually considered to be in the field of Psychical Research. There
MARCH 1941 " The Physics of the Divining Rod
"
41
have, however, been some experiments, such as those of Lord
Rayleigh on luminous effects from magnets, which gave results in
agreement with what might have been expected from well esta-
blished theory.1
(6) I find this paragraph rather obscure. Mr Maby writes :
" Can a . . . field of Hertzian radiation ... in the neighbourhood
of a subterranean water vein, for instance, be recorded clearly by
such and such a radio receiver, operating at such and such a
frequency? And we have found the answer to this and many
similar questions was undoubtedly in the affirmative." If this
means that an underground stream is the cause of a radio-set's
picking up radiation of a definite frequency which it would not have
done but for the presence of the stream, then, if confirmed, a novel
feature of the physical world has been disclosed. If, on the other
hand, the radiation in question was first produced by means of a
radio transmission set, and reception on another set was considered
to be different in the vicinity of the stream from what it would have
been had no stream been there, then the conclusions may be very
different. Many factors would have to be considered, and it would
be wise to adopt a sceptical attitude regarding any novel concepts
until one is in possession of all the relevant facts, and thus able
correctly to assess " the sum total of the evidence available."
(7) A considerable part of the skill of the trained research worker
lies in his ability to give a clear and concise account of such details
of his experiments as are necessary to ensure their successful
repetition. He does not say '*
come up and see me some time,
and I shall be very glad to answer any inquiries direct or to arrange
for suitable demonstrations of the phenomena." Nor does he reach
his conclusions, even though they are tentative, through a host of
irrelevancies and a plethora of non sequitur.
I do not claim to be an authority on Dowsing, but I have had
some twenty years' experience of the supervision of Scientific
Research in a University. I submit that, in reviewing The Physics
of the Divining Rod, I confined my remarks to certain aspects of
the work upon which I was well qualified to remark, and I am glad
that Mr Maby has now had the opportunity of giving members of
our Society a fuller account of the very wide scope of his book.
C. C. L. Gregory.
1
Proceedings, Vol. XLV, p. 19.
42 Journal of Society for Psychical Research march 1941
CORRESPONDENCE
Paranormal Cognition
To the Editor of The Journal
Sir,—Every student of Psychical Research will welcome the recent
outspoken and courageous article by the President 1
in which he
emphasises the growing necessity for philosophy to take into its
purview the facts of telepathy and clairvoyance with all their far-
reaching implications. Thanks largely to the adoption of the methods
of the psychological laboratory, first-class experimental evidence for
both telepathy and clairvoyance as well as evidence for precognition
is steadily accumulating both in this country and in America.
Columbia and Duke Universities have shown the way, and we have
now the Perrott Studentship at Cambridge, but the psychologists
of the English provincial universities still lag behind, clinging with
a curious conservatism to outmoded conceptions of the relations of
body to mind in spite of the revolution in Physics which has replaced
the crude mechanistic theories of the Victorian era by others more
in accordance with the views of Kant.
But the main object of this letter is to discuss an interesting
suggestion contained in the President's article and quoted on p. 13
of the January-February Journal. Professor Price remarks that in
the card-guessing experiments there frequently appears to be nothing
cognitive at all but merely a motor reaction to a stimulus which
reaches the percipient's mind in some unknown way. That is to
say, the subject who is guessing does not appear to receive a mental
picture of the card that is being looked at, but responds almost
automatically by calling out or writing down a symbol.
Now in rapid card-calling there is much to suggest that, in a
superficial sense, this is true. In the case of the subject with whom
I am experimenting at present, for example, the subject writes down
almost without hesitation at each guess one of the five letters E, G,
L, P, Z, these being the initials of five names of animals. The
recording of 50 guesses takes only four or five minutes. The per-
cipient tells me that generally he receives no mental picture of the
animal but only a verbal image of the initial letter. But the subject
appears to be in a normal mental state and to know perfectly well
the letter he has just written for he will often pass remarks such
as " I feel that one is quite wrong " or " I shouldn't be surprised
if the last four prove to be all correct ".
In still more rapid guessing such as takes place in the experiments
of Mr Tyrrell the opening of the boxes would appear to be as " auto-
1
Philosophy, Vol. XV, No. 60, pp. 363-385.
MARCH 1941 Correspondence 43
matic
'
' and spontaneous as is the striking of the keys by a skilled
pianist or typist.
But this apparent automatism I venture to think merely means
that consciousness has been displaced to another level of the per-
sonality but not obliterated. A beginner at the piano has most of
his conscious attention concentrated on the playing of the correct
notes, but when he has built up the necessary mental organisation
for this essential task the accompanying consciousness becomes dis-
sociated from the normal personality which is now free to deal with
the nuances of expression and interpretation. I accept indeed the
views of Janet that any kind of complex mental effort is accom-
panied by a corresponding consciousness at some level or other of
the personality. I myself possess the gift of being able to write
verse without being conscious of the words my hand is writing
though ever and again whole phrases flash back into my normal
consciousness. Now such communications as those purporting to
emanate from Oscar Wilde are evidence to me not only of sub-
conscious mental activity but of an organised literary personality.
By a " personality " I mean a self-conscious being, similar in many
respects to my waking self, but exhibiting literary tastes which often
appear alien to my normal consciousness and employing forms of
literary expression which I have never cultivated. I am not of
course here concerned with the question whether these conscious
organisations which manifest by automatic writing and which claim
to be " Oscar Wilde " or " Conan Doyle " are in any true sense
survivals of the living men they impersonate.
But I do suggest that from a literary standpoint they appear to
be well-developed personalities. In ordinary table-tilting experi-
ments the personalities which manifest are often of a more limited
and rudimentary kind.
Now in my recent paper on card-guessing [Proceedings, Part 162,
p. 193] I have given reasons for the belief that there sometimes exist
in the mind of the subject or guesser rudimentary conscious organi-
sations which not only receive the telepathic knowledge but appear
to be aware when they have failed to transmit it correctly to the
waking mind. In some cases there seemed to be a process of mental
" exorcism " employed by the subconscious entity to get rid of a
disturbing image. Of course it is much too early to generalise from
results obtained in any single series of experiments, but it is worth
while to remark that Mr Tyrrell also has given his reasons for sup-
posing that there are controlling " psychic entities " in Miss John-
son's mind which to some extent determine the success or failure
of the experiments.
44 Journal of Society for Psychical Research march 1941
Our inability to understand the likes and dislikes of these entities
may conceivably account for many of the failures to obtain suc-
cessful results in card-guessing experiments. If we could only
establish communication with them—by means of automatic writing
for instance—I believe we should have gone a long way towards
understanding the conditions under which telepathy and clairvoy-
ance take place.
But, however that may be, I feel reasonably certain that success-
ful card-guessing calls into play very complex co-conscious organi-
sations and rudimentary personalities existing below or above the
level of ordinary waking consciousness, and that what is involved
is something far different from a mere automatic motor response to
a telepathic stimulus. Yours, etc., S. G. Soal.
Sir,—I am indeed sorry to have disturbed Mr Besterman's
equilibrium, and still more so that he should take exception to the
tone of my letter. None the less, I fear I must stick to my guns
as regards the point at issue.
Every serious student of psychical research knows that there are
many situations (as sometimes in other sciences also) in which it is
necessary to guard against the possibilities of malobservation,
misremembering, auto- or heterosuggestion, wishful thinking, and
the like ; and that all experiments of whatever nature should be so
conducted as to reduce the likelihood of error to a minimum.
But if I report that on a certain evening I drew and put up in my
study a picture of a Butterfly, whereas I actually drew and put up
a picture of a Balance, there is no scope that I can see for any of
these possibilities or, humanly speaking, for "error" as ordinarily
understood : I am either certifiably insane, or a plain liar. There
is no question here of controlling a medium in the dark, or of
" remembering " a veridical dream after the occurrence of the
verifying episode, or of not allowing a photographic plate-holder
out of one's sight, or anything of that kind ; it is a matter of
reporting correctly or incorrectly an action about which there can
be no possible doubt or ambiguity. 1
Nor is there any question,
from the circumstances, of the experimenter (myself or another)
being subject to the misleading suggestions of a medium or presti-
digitator.
1
Sufficiently gross carelessness in handling the originals, coupled with a
defective memory, might result in the order of the originals within a particular
experiment being misreported, if no note were made at the time of which
original was used on which day. But even this would not affect the main
results (Section IVa of my paper), while appropriate notes were in fact made.
MABCH 1941 Correspondence 45
In other words, despite Mr Besterman's implied disclaimer, the
point essentially is one of veracity and not of " error.'"
Now, I don't particularly mind, from the personal point of view ;
for I do not suppose that Mr Besterman is accusing me of fabricating
the whole business by stating, after seeing the drawings, that
originals were used which were in fact not used. Nor do I wish to
adopt an attitude of hauteur and truculence ;
and least of all to
claim for myself " exceptions and immunities " denied to others.
On the contrary, it is entirely on public and not on private
grounds that I protest against the suggestion that any reasonably
sane and responsible experimenter, reporting an act about which
there can be no possible doubt or ambiguity, is automatically suspect
of inveracity (and I have just shown that there is virtually no
alternative) just because he happens to be conducting an experiment
on paranormal cognition and not on, say, the relative intelligence
quotients of blondes and brunettes.
Any such allegation is, I venture to assert with all deference, no
part of " the canons of scientific methodology," but a wholly
gratuitous and arbitrary dictum such as no sensible person would
entertain for a moment.
Moreover, the general adoption of such a standpoint might well
be highly pernicious. Almost our principal aim at the present
time should be (and mine certainly is) to remove experiments of
this sort from the domain of the private and exceptional to that
of the public and commonplace. I very much doubt whether this
will be achieved solely by the performance of experiments, however
successful, by individual psychical researchers (myself or others),
no matter how long a regression of witnesses of witnesses of witnesses
we may introduce : such experiments, in my judgement, however
important and informative they may be, cannot have much more
effect on the scientific world as a whole than establishing a prima
facie case for systematic and independent investigation, and
developing the most promising technique for use in it.
What we want to see is experiments of this general kind, and
researches arising out of them, being conducted, almost as a matter
of course, by every worth-while psychological department in the
country ; but we shall not accelerate this state of affairs if we lay
it down in advance that everyone who touches the subject is ipso
facto transformed into a fool or a knave. Does Mr Besterman
really suggest that, if Professor X of University Y is good enough
to undertake an experiment of this sort, we should repudiate his
results on the ground that he cannot be relied upon to report
correctly whether he drew a Hawk or a Handsaw on Tuesday night ?
46 Journal of Society for Psychical Research march 1941
Or does lie seriously consider that the situation is parallel to that
of an eminent chemist, say, being spoofed by a physical medium
in the dark?
Incidentally, why does he imply (p. 23, lines 8 and 9) that my
experiments are " non-repeatable " ? I should have thought myself
that their repeatability (the importance of which I did not fail to
stress in my paper) was just about their most striking and satis-
factory feature. It is true that to carry out five experiments on
the scale of those reported is laborious, but this has nothing to do
with " repeatability " in the relevant sense. What matters is that
I did not use specially selected " sensitives," or rely on hypnosis or
drugs or dissociated states, or find it necessary to impose special
conditions ; on the contrary, I used (if I may say so) quite ordinary
subjects working for the most part wherever and under whatever
conditions they pleased—and what more one wants to constitute
repeatability in a psychological experiment I should be interested
to learn. At the present time, moreover, experiments of the same
type are being repeated, with considerable success, on various scales
in various places and by various people ;
though not, I regret to
say, by Mr Besterman.
No : I think the Noble Shades whom Mr Besterman so piously
invokes still walk untroubled in the Elysian fields ; but I am much
tempted to suggest , in all amiability, that he himself is " staggered
"
mainly because he had not a leg to stand upon!
I am Sir, etc.,
Whately Carington.
Mr Collins's Pamphlet
Sir,—I observe that from time to time you give space to authors
to reply to criticisms in reviews of their books, and I should like to
say a few words about Mr Bichmond's reasoned and not entirely
unsympathetic review of my paper " Why I do believe in Survival ".
I must apologise first to him for overlooking his presence when
I read my paper. This is due to my unfamiliarity with the appear-
ance of most of the officers of the Society.
My main object in writing the paper was as a protest against the
attitude adopted by Professor Dodds that the only evidence worth
discussion is that received through mediums, and his statement that
physical phenomena " do not come much in question here, since the
great majority of them do not afford even prima facie evidence of
survival ". Although the Society as such professes to have no views,
this is the view that seems now to guide those with influence in it.
MAECH 1941 Correspondence, 47
Indeed it is obvious to anyone who reads through the Proceedings
of recent years that the attention of the Society is focused on
messages received through mediums and experimental work on
telepathy and clairvoyance. It is impossible to argue the matter
here. All I will say is that at least I am only following the views
of Myers and Camille Flammarion regarding apparitions, of Sir
William Barrett about death bed visions, of Geley and Lombroso
in respect of materialisations and those of Sir Oliver Lodge in con-
sidering that survival is established by evidence taken as a whole.
At any rate I only wished to draw the attention of the Society to
the impasse they had reached and to try to draw them back to
the lines on which the founders worked. Mr Richmond agrees that
there is something in this line of argument and my only regret is that
my paper will not be on record either in the Proceedings or Journal.
There is one point at least on which Mr Richmond has hardly
done justice to my argument and that is in regard to the functioning
of consciousness outside the body. He criticises the importance
which I attach to the etheric body and " its aptitude for travelling
in space " on the ground that it is a physical hypothesis for which
no physical evidence is established but does not even mention those
cases which I regard as the most important, namely those in which
the individual in full consciousness observes his body from the out-
side. He does say however that " the mind fairly readily forms
non-factual images and impressions of bodily location ". This is a
queer remark because it is not a question of bodily location, in the
sense of the physical body. In any case I am not clear whether it
is meant to cover this type of case ; but I would like to quote a
sentence from a resume of a lecture delivered by Mr Richmond
himself at the British College of Science on February 3, 1937 (page
50, Psychic Science, April 1927) :
" Scientifically we have no proof
of our own existence or anyone else's, our starting point is what we
are told by our own minds." This is a restatement of the dictum
of Descartes " Cogito ergo sum "
—in connection with which I quoted
Professor Bozzano as saying " Psychologically speaking the fact of
feeling oneself existing personally in the fullness of sentient and
conscious faculties, outside the body and contemplating the body,
is a fact worthy of profound meditation." I feel this is a good
example of the type of evidence to which the Society is paying little
or no attention : yet as shown in my article in Light for September 19
these are facts which are capable of experimental verification, even
one might say to physical proof to some extent.
Mr Richmond considers that my paper is " little more than a
series of argued assertions, distinguished by consistency of aim rather
48 Journal of Society for Psychical Research march 1941
than cogency of reasoning "'.
As I pointed out with great emphasis
it was only intended as an outline of the case and it was only possible
to present an outline. Argument in detail was out of the question.
The actual cases cited were of little importance and I was perfectly
ready to omit any which were considered insufficiently established.
What types of evidence are established is a matter of opinion, and
from among the men of science of standing who have really studied
these phenomena I think I could cite more supporters than Mr Rich-
mond. That my inferences from them are illogical, I most strongly
deny.
I have now published my paper at my own expense. In the hope
that I might reach a larger number of the members and also recoup
some small part of the cost, I offered the Society a number of copies
at cost price (8d.) to circulate to members along with the Journal,
but this offer too was refused. I can only hope now that members
will take the trouble to send a shilling to the address below, so that
they may judge for themselves.
Yours faithfully, B. Abdy Collins.
16 Penhelig, Aberdovey.
(The remark that " the mind fairly readily forms non-factual
images and impressions of bodily location " applies, quite strictly,
as against the contention that any such images and impressions
should of themselves be regarded as veridical. The impression of
being " outside ", and perceiving, one's own body is an impression
that the bodily location is separated from the location of the perceiv-
ing self. There does not appear to be any evidence to show whether
this impression corresponds with a fact of bi-location. Mr Collins
has no need to " deny " an illogicality which was not imputed to
him : an argument can be logical as far as it goes without being
cogent. The course suggested, of circulating members' pamphlets
with the Journal, has never been followed by the Society, and if ever
adopted would have created awkward precedents.
—
Ed.)
Sir,—Mr Abdy Collins in his preface to Why I do believe in
Survival records the impression that no officer of the Society was
present when his paper was read on 1940, April 24, and you, Sir,
in your review (Journal S.P.R., Vol. XXXI, p. 210) claim to have
been the sole officer who was free to attend. Neither claim is
correct. I was certainly there myself, and it is my impression that
Miss Horsell, the Assistant-Secretary, was also present.—I remain,
Sir, Your obedient servant,
C. V. C. Herbert, Research Officer.
No. .574-575.—Vol. XXXII April-May, 1941
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, 28 May, ig^i, at 4.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"JUNG'S CONCEPTION OF THE STRUCTURE
OF PERSONALITY, FROM THE POINT OF
VIEW OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH "
WILL BE READ BY
Dr H. GODWIN BAYNES
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members and
Associates zvill be admitted on signing their names at the door.
c
50 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April-May 1941
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 24 January 1941)
Reece, Mrs, 57 Station Eoad, Llanishen, Cardiff.
{Elected 30 April 1941)
Austin, Mrs, Thorncroft, Warlingham, Surrey.
Branch, Lady Prudence, c/o Estate Office, Stanmer, Lewes, Sussex.
THE RESEARCH OFFICER
Our members will all join in wishing every success and all good
fortune to Mr Herbert who, on taking up military duties in April,
resigned his position as Research Officer, while kindly offering to
help the Society in an honorary capacity so far as his new duties
permitted.
ENQUIRY INTO PRECOGNITION
The Council, having decided that the first work to be done under
the terms of the Blennerhassett Trust should be an enquiry into
precognition, have appointed a Committee to supervise the enquiry
and Mr Richmond to act as organising secretary to the Committee.
Further details as to the nature of the enquiry, in which it is hoped
that members will collaborate, will be announced later.
They have also agreed to make a grant towards the travelling
expenses of Mr S. G. Soal, who has for some time past been conduct-
ing experiments of great interest with a percipient appearing to
possess a marked precognitive faculty.
The Trustees of the Research Endowment Fund have agreed to
bear part of the expenses arising from the Committee's enquiry and
Mr Soal's experiments.
FOREKNOWLEDGE IN DREAMS
(The contributor of the following study, Miss G. M. Bishop, is a
member of the Society, and sent the material for our files, rather as
a contribution to discussion of the subject than as an addition to
evidence. It will be seen that circumstances did not favour the
collection of supporting evidence concerning the dreams and corre-
sponding facts which are detailed below, also that as evidence of
precognition, as distinct from telepathy or chance-coincidence, the
material varies considerably in quality. But such is the nature of
the material which we obtain on actual investigation of the subject,
and Miss Bishop allows her notes to be printed here as an example
April-May 1941 Foreknowledge in Dreams 51
of such mixed material and of the ideas that occur to a student of
the subject in trying to sort out the explanations for experiences of
this kind in an orderly way. It is of considerable help in the sifting
out of paranormal factors in the recorded experiences which we
receive when the experients can give as clear an account as possible
of all the operative factors known to themselves.
—
Ed.)
In 1935, having recently read J. W. Dunne's book An Experiment
with Time, I decided to watch my own dreams with his theory in
view. I was unable to follow Mr Dunne's analysis of the nature of
Time, but since I have been all my life a vivid dreamer and in the
habit of remembering many, if not most, of my dreams for some
hours or days afterwards, it seemed possible that I should discover
whether I was to any extent dreaming the future.
During the autumn of 1935, therefore, I kept a file in which I
noted a number of dreams which might relate to future events. I
included any dream which was of such a nature that I should have
taken it for granted that it related to the event had that event
happened before, rather than after, the dream. Taking this as my
criterion, I collected in a few weeks a dozen or so dreams which
might be cases of precognition.
Unfortunately I had no means of obtaining supporting evidence
since I live alone and have no one to whom I could relate the dreams
before the arrival of the material to which they seemed to relate.
Had I been able to obtain such evidence, I should have sent the
collection to Mr Dunne or the S.P.R. at the time. However, I was
satisfied, both from Mr Dunne's book and from my other reading,
that we already have a good deal of well-supported evidence to
show that some people, in some circumstances, can and do glimpse
the future. It was therefore of more interest to me to see whether
I could throw some light on the circumstances in which such glimpses
take place.
Since I am not a professional philosopher, I decided to leave the
question of the nature of Time to God and the metaphysicians and
study my dreams from the psychological point of view. It is in the
hope that my notes on this subject may be suggestive that I send
them to the S.P.R., with a table which gives details of the majority
of the dreams to which they refer.
Notes on the dreams detailed in the accompanying table.
I. My first observation was that, although my waking interests
and my reading are mainly of an intellectual nature (I was reading
chiefly psychology at the time), not one of the dreams related in
any way to my intellectual interests.
C 2
-
-
s
o
o
—
CO
— B
- 1
B o
o .a
w =
a ^
. & . _S 2 o3
i-H CB f^l 43 .5 CB <
j_i ,-- — U
is
"3
O o3
^ ,
43 E
O o3 .
B <
2 o .
!
~ a
a s
-
a
o
co >
_ CB «B
-o E CD >
— Hi g s
9 A I?
— —
o3 o3
£3 +=>
CB
P-fi 43-=
> -
:
- > -a -e
• r S cj 3
3 CB O CD
1
cb a ft
i, E CB
CB
>~. CD
e -c
03 CB
CB CB
-a a
e3
as
eg £
a
§
1 £
£ g
O Cb i
i
>, CB
'
CB -E
_E *
43
CB
B
a3
a
|8
o
« [fi H
o "3
o
'B t>
.S CB 5
e
_e
to to "*H *>
-3i 3 O 3
m ^ «
-h C « O c
. -i-H 3 C -
>
-g g o
;
w a s^-S
CS <-,
C ° .
CD
L* -3- I*
o
-
A
H
E-
-
-
?%
•ft bs
co 2
ce -s
-3 -g
s a £
m « O o -
J
.2 4= fi CD -B
rj <s ? 5 o
§^ * *2
^ C § ^
£ t; -=
—
. =3 3 CB
„A 2 0)
CD -4^> r-H
43 GO CO
3 rt
o
ft
s r -a
<„ o
bc-E
.a ?
o e
CD •—
<
-Q cd
I
£ -B
CB 43
Is
o
CD GO
a, ^3
'3
4^ O c3
cS bD-Q cS
CB CB
C t>
•a cb
a ck
2 «
O CD
p m
^ -p
03
A oi c
S £ P
c3 ^
5^
«,o
CO
™
0
CB CB
CB CB
- o
CB g CO
j
,0 c3
'+-1 CB CB
E
:
4H
1
^
u CB
5 5
g5
? o
« 2
,53 .a
O 4^
-^3 co
'
^ 03
^ w
3 M -2
o o
Ph 2 •
V, & <u
;
J3 £ 2
o
.S 3 §
S^j 4?
-Q BO 8
2 I'm
CS _S 4=
i s .0
o
bD O
C
c
MS'"
Is 2 3
^g
T)4> 3
» o3 o3
43 CB
8 grfj
- B3
(N m a
43 .2 O
SB'S
CC CD
'
o3
o3
CB CB
CB M
co 43
CB O CB
i» 4B CB
R,«tH
H CB -
&q |g cb
8*4)
~ —^3
S C
^2
- co
CB CB
CB rj S
O CB
bC_T 03 -
a 2 m
'ft c >>
a - =
pa I S ^
U ^3 4> 43
p4-^ T?. —1
43 bD o
7.
<
-
-
En
:
>
a
-
p
H
E-i
<!
-
;
V
<2 5
o
CB
43 —
o3
M
-O b3
-^3 co
CB
-I _
(3 S
Oh
I a s
+3 So
fi CB " — "
*1 CB
,
o i-,
4J
> CD CB 03
CB "t3 O
3 bo"
13
4)fl j 3 bfi
ti c*" s 3
03 O O O
co
w 43 o c
^ — C cb
Si
0! 03
CD
43 00 .
A .
,-1
10
3 PhT^
3 B
CB 03
> bc ^-,
03 a cb
ce ci C
CO
1
—
'
^ — o
O 1)
o b .2
^ B -B
CB 03 43
- — _
SO"
? j tc
^ ™ m
9 B 0
2 03 A
-rt CB
03 -B
^ EH
co *
CB M
> -
cS o3
-1 b 1 rt
Cb JS M
0
CB Cb
Pb m
03
M
tile's
3 a
g 4B 03
8 rt
b
CD
'
-B g o3
S O CB
CD
CB B
2 a
3 o
co ai
o .S
B S
43 CB
^ 60-^1 ^
K B
03
O T!
'
B
B «
°H.
03 ^3
03 O
CB r—
O m
cb cn
[S CB
S
3 41 t*j=
CB CB
-a
CD 43
^4-<
4^
BhB5
CB *-*
CO
^3
^2 g
rB
^
. CD
CB
H-H ^ ,
B I
<g 03
1
©
50
73 to k o
CD ce
&• ^
ce CD CD
>-^-B S
to c-
™
c 6 b£
a -3 03
:
c«^3 B
;2H §
03 a
B .3 B
o 3 Q
o
ce cd
cb t« .a ii
bp c3
^ w c -
-
« n-3 a, s a s
ho 13
fl
-a pa
43 CB
0 B
fli o3
ce cd
^ si
43
3
O
O rB
^bS«
o3
g
-B E
.-B t8
o3 J3
CB is
M41
a sp*s
4= S .3
43 CO
B-B2
CB '-I
CO
O
izi
H
ft
H
H
P3
«]
rH
Ph
<
M-H -(J
O 3
O
o a
a s
<D CD
ID
a •
- a
c3
i—i 03
e8 tj
- ~z
° a
z
z
o a
5 ca
-3 -p
s £
a 03
03 £
•S -9
p cd
£ B
o g
5j a
p a
Ph O
rH P
,o
CO -3
f?.2
to -a
Si eg
rgfc
H
d o
£ «> o
r, CD
C
„ ca"o g
e ft* »
^ ?? i, k.
rQ
O M —
-g © .a
CD tfH*
a a
>s O
I s
£ ca
3
o
a
c3 a)
C+H H-0
O s
O
C' e.
a -a ° - 8
^ oa * £
™ <o » a 5? £
^ o
CD CD
o 52 ,
OS C3
o
'ft
C 03
0^
s °
c3 CCi -P -P
o
rP
3 03
-I
-2 -
"3 c..
'-P c8
ca 13
SIS
§ a
='->
a •«
o a
-p '"I
co eg
.2 7
T3
'
ca (D
ca
"
JS a
4-. ©
o
o
!D -P
H 2
w "73
o -
^ CD
CD
s .2
0 >,
C CO
8 48
1
H W H
= =
=
t3
"~
2,
" 3 Ph
a s .a
41 » O
hQ Ph^:
a be CD co '
•a -5 a %
& o a
g O to !h bC
sb^ p 2 a
° » --5
c
I
a -
a c 3
S c3 C
^ O o
sV'fl
S t) a _
03 I* ^
o ^
3
- a
ca
a c8
Ph. a O M
CO CCi
cd _a
fi h3
o ^
~ CD
cd a
'3
> CO $
O fS
ft *
^ CD cS KH
•8
S CD e8 ^3 "3
O Ph * "S
,!§ «H SP g p.
<D a CD
0 3 "H a ^
« o CO -h O
<h 5 *> -g =Q
§ ^ | S o
CO
j? a
CD o
S S
o o
o .a
— a
Ph Ph
^1 °
- r
r-H CCi CD
a „, 2
O b£> c3
?! :
^ +=
- o •
a £ 2,
CO
m a
CO h,
co "d
ce a
? -a
Zj
n
>> o
~a
^ d -r
-t3 co S
-d 03
§ 5 *o
o « _ a
shs;
^2 U
7 7
H ffi CflfH +)
a ,a a cd
-
c
o co o co _a
-c 'B "S S
— H CD Ph S
o 5P 3 m a o
* -S
'3 d S °
rH ^ -LCI H_J
tO^O rH Q CQ
.3 -2 a g .
- S I -S |
M s
cS
~
a cd
a cd
3
P t^j--
3
5 a "c? a
? a M rQ > o
• bb a
CD r? CD
to .a +^
o >.,.-a
fi +2 - H-0
- 5P ^O'S
HH CD a > rH HH :
cd si). a ^ . -S "
Ph bp a UO S Ph i
W 3 *H r- r- .
Oh CO O .a — >~.H
a fe-.-S'S u
^ CD »rCi 0' rt
a > 2 Ph be co a
2 h3 ° * P
-a -a
-13
a -a > >
o
CD —
rS
43
o
4H -rH
fl
o S
J3 ,<D
H-H
z. ^
HH FH
a cd
cu -cr
o a a .a
S f a
a c £
-
a ^
rl O
a
ci o s
CO o CD
- : rQ d
CD o
03 O
si
"bbn?
'S CD
a u
rH 5
2 03
l|
2 a
o
43 -a
a a
a a
<
w
IS
«
O
^ a » o
a o g 33
a -a ?
cS
a °
CO
r?a
! o3 a
; -a +^
H-3 CD
^ rr-
CD ^H
a cs
C — - a
a a
1 *
0D O
"3 gnS CDT3
* -a -a tJ
* a
,
rH <D
O Ph
«H X '
H-3 CD '
a
O H-1
co
O
> to
f
5-
3
° o .
2 s>>.2
a !=J ,a
CD c^ co
.a a
M
CO +5
08 a
cs a
0) *
CD be"*"
1
bi
—
c3 o
03 cd S
bJO 2 „
s -a 3
a ^
O 03
a
co c3
* S
a *
2 a
D
CD c^" O
^ -3 O
cs a b
s-h a
-p a -a
a 1-5
o
MS >i
HH) CD
CO ,+H >
H H-H
.a,_aj ca
^ rH ri-
-
al o
a -t3 e3
a o
S a _,
a o .a
o -P
CD rP 03
« k'3
CO
ario g<
a a 3
2
II
a ca
ca cd
"3 ^a
3 =8
~ rC
ca be
d3 a
-p c
03
rr 03
? a
ca 03
_a
a -p
a
a 03
o 03
a -p
C 0>
CQ •
" c
2 E>i
Sc
r- CD
rt4 MH
cd a
a 3
o a
CO
5E
o ,2
03 .
—
I
H^ 03
r3 a
>> CD
a ca
o -a cd
A3 -P "rH
+a -P
Sp
s a
13 O
M §
—
? 2
—r a
cd ca
a
°
cj -a
a
5 °
a ;g
CD
*^
CD 03
CO
. 03 JS,
co bjj ca
« s a
ca g -a
a« ~
co co ca
Ph
cS
Ph
bo
a
CD 03
— -A Z
c5 .o a
O O ~
_a a _
& -p -a
00 rH
g 3-S
a a o
ca ,_. -a
03 Ph
III
*H2-a
woo
-a ja
-P CO
-a
D
a
'
'
cd a
CD O
X
F*-* -P
CD r-
-a
rH -P
O C3
HH CD
CO
03
: -
Ch
" bo
03 a
a -p
:
—
o
a
CO
ca
bp co CD •
a rH 0.
•h3 k 2 —
co cd a 03
"H hr
a
o ~
° T3 CO ,3
2 3 1$
c8 gO'g
08
a
l-H a 03
o 3 -a
H
<!
O
oo
-p 00
PhC3
CD i—
I
CO
o2
o
> CO
o 02
r<
o
a .g
03 OQ
°&
1 i
03 o>
^ O 03
3 T-
B M
03 O
03
a
s :a
a a
O 3
CO O
-Q
o3
a
o3 -p
s| i
Hi » cS
o a
43 2 oa
S -a o3
-OOP
73 03
O
a
_ ftl3 tJ 03
" 8 a « 2
i jq o3
""m a
£3
03 tin 03 03 43
a §
43 .03
O «H
o3 03
M 60
O 3
fs 9,
S3 <d 2
8 o3 >> Sg X >. tT
O ,3 £ ^ Jh 03
Q o +3 += >-p5 >
h S « S' 0)
a ft.3 g (3
cr P
h a> 43 13
o3 © § e8
O o3
o ™
a
a £
r3
DO
3
O
>
03
03
<4H <+H
O O
03 ©
03 £3, o3
a a) o
so a
3
o asa?
H
§'
s^.^ph
>» S <N « S •*
•
a h <*h to
o3 "O o O
a a
03
O 33
F
31
52 -t3
a
o
•A
H
CS
w
ft
M
B
w
3
13 ~3 03
8,5 o
U 03 'C
03 03
g
03 & 03
03 o3 a
111
03 _Q 03
^ OQ 43
/H ^3 m
33
ft
M
2 a
o
k! ^ -
3
50 *H HI
3 S a
g S3 C3
a ^
03 HH
3 o K
-
S3 ^ 2
PL, o o
£ S
-a J
a .2
g
SO .
o3 3
03 'S
l-H 03
H
03
,0 f»
tM 3
2
O 3
^<
O 03
"B 1 g
p 133
: . a
03
03 03 K
S O o3
° s s
5 8 5-.
'O 03 -rt
8 -t3
1 ^
s o
OQ W
a
+^ 03
^ o3 S 0j
!>.- a 03
03 O ^5
o
03 S O O
a ir
1
03 .-t
3
b£ 03
a -g
03
Tj-a
03 03
J M
a
^.3 o
03 O
3 -S <~
2 2 o
t! a
03 «
fe 03
p 03
CD
Ph «
9 s
OQ •
-
O
^ -
CO 0)
^2
03
13
03 03
a j3
o3
m ^ 03
3 a-a
03
OQ J]
(3
03 2
3 ^
1/3
a
-H O ^;
03
60
C 1
'S
^
03
"'
+3
-
03 C3
03
— 1 isp
601
•a
3 +=
3 a
a q3
13 °
^ -p
03 .
!3 3
03
a
o3 f> o3
3°eo
o> — a
> r" O
03 o o
8 §s
S g
S <u °
O 03
3 —
3 CQ
03 ^3 .
03
S 03 -3
H > t>
*>
O 'H 60
2 o3 -a
03 ^ U
a
-P 43 +3
-a a +3
o* ^
m ^3 o
I
s
43 03
tZ2 m .3
.2 f- 9
43 03 +? 03 ,
T" 4J 03 r—
<
a -a +3 o
<Jh 03
O a ii
03 CO
„,
^ ~ £ T
03 jjTJ ^
CO 2^ 03 03
O 03
»"
•e« 03 . j
= 13 3!
*
O o3 o3 13
2fe a
°^..£ -
S3 is
? a -5
HP
^ -3
03
H
. 60
03
to
3 a
o 3
03
a so
It
-3 o3
^ a
° §3
a a
•a o a
as
H
Pi
P
o
CQ
£ +3 60^3 03 H
3 3 a .3 tO
§ C 15 ^ 03
>, J 8
3 43
r
3 -a £ od
^ ,3 03 60T3
£ gO^ -g
§ a
-2 2 o S
TO 03 4i -g
.60 ^ t3 _0
-g a 03 oH
„ §3 g 3"S .
2 p.
m -2 03
a
03 O 03 On
3
- 03
o3 03
o3
I HI
OO -
q » 03
o3
"
d 2 g
-a
S
"S 03 "3 o
° 1 p=
^
-° 3 03
1-1
03 .
fi .
^ O 03
+3 13 13 43
g o3 oj 43
P -3 ,3 o3
03 a
—, 03
03 <t) .
03
3
o
ft .
3 '
'
M m a
" .9 "S
3 3 "5b
o3 3 3
" « 5
60^
M o3 O
^'S 2
1 S «S §^
g'a.SoSH
^ £h hh •
P g
"5
-S o
a
o
3
O
o3 ^
P.S
4^ 03
03 a
o 13
03
r3 '
O
~ a 2 2 2
» S o -~ g 9
>iga 03 a
O 3 g 43 A p
03 J3 &p oT 2
03 03 g q 4i ,
03 13 H
.
—
•
C
—
03
3 o3 13
u g
5
03 CO 03
a a o) m2
a 3 a 03
03
-9 13 m —
4i O^ S-l
" .S 03 H 2 *
1—1
1—• 3 03 ^
o.^3 03 3
m o 00
a s
03 ftg *i1
03 13
te 03
a 3
o eg
03 03 3
PHP-g
CD (D .
D O ID
-3 -S .3 o -3 -3
43 ft 03 HH -
-3 «
O 03 43
q =3
3
H
H
R
o
. "5
> o^
O Ci
i-H CD
. co
3 033
03 hh
1-3
. 03
tso£2
3 ^ 43 CO
ftC3
EH
-
Z
S R
" (11
a ©
o
S5fc
a W 00
o > a
g 2 o
« g o
60 a -M
60-3 C
3 O
m co
^ ~9
-3
S 73* $ P
« £
60_s ceT'm
CO « ~ CO
1/8
a
St*
.95
o -3 B
C a -43
«2 § oj
P -m
43 5
o o
.15 a
-a
1
a a
oj
a t3
03
~ 60
a a
2 5 "
a -w I
3 >-i
a* .£>
O 1*
O
«
H
-
-
3
<!
P
O
S
CO
P
O
y a ^
3o9
~ O «
73 -» ,o
5 IE
a OJ O
« tip §
7^ a o 9.
„ 60
73 .^'53
00 73 C
^ a ^ a
a^-* a *
P a< a P 60
* g pq <
60^ tC u ^
C &i C 73 o
a <u ^ is
2g
a £ oj 73
a „
a
a C
d a o
. g « 3 *
_ O
3 B
I
s -
a
s » a a
^ .3 "1
5
I<! »-°
u 73 HJ
- •« a
H
'S a oj
co a a
j IS OJ O m
- i 1^ CO ~;
cu —
a
a
-
S 2:
a -
s
e
us 'g
g, o
<9 S S 'rt
cu cc -a
60 g
5 -B
5" §
^ a q
<i ja <h a
"S 2
a 5
a ,o
a S
a p
x p
|o
a =o
OJ S
CO ©
o
a -a
-3 £
6C o
a 'm
§ *
t-Z, co
- 3
a rC
-U "tH
OJ ^3
^3
t3 >,
:
GJ CJ
_3
a
O CO
'g|
a —'
6C "2
a 5
co a
. OJ
a <x
0 2
CM 73
1 a
a-
. 60
«3 a
o m
+3 a
S-S.O
2 . «
6d-w a
C co
•a a co
t, a ©
=3 3 o
jf.'a
.3
? C 4)
o s«
+3 CO J3
^ > -e
„n a Ph
oj t» oj
co C> cj
o 2
a
° a'3
Ph oj n
^ -b a
a += -a
A o oj
2J3 >
•°
& a
g ^ q ^
S: o hj .
» o _.
i r,~
OJ
OJ
a S
a ^
a
a t3
oj
H oj
"a |
a a
cS
h E flj O
» .2 ^ 73
cS ° ^
co
W -C C
a a a s
> oj u
> oj 5 S
"B-SlJS
CD ^
-a _>s a .g
? 2 co
jt3 f-t P cj
oj -2
O 73 2
tj| 3^
a ? S -a
ca co oj
a p 33
1 8-5 ^
73 " §H
73 -
a
g a © 73 "O
° 0) CO g o
_, co 3 73
73 o — •«
a oj ^5
a j3
Oj _ 3 w
© .a
OJ 7-1 .
a a oj
3
3 -B .3
& a a
9 c
OJ
a oj
13
-IS P b
-
a 2 o s
a -a 3
P 03
+=
^
H a oj
J3 > co
-*^» k* a
33 oj a Cm "i fc
~ OJ 60 O Th o
C3 fl HI piJ
a
Cm 73
O <°
-m 73 a
CO
O =?
-3 o
a co
OJ
a a
OJ
3 73
-3 oj
3 3
a
"
CO
o
.„ A
& c .60 60
co
"~<
-3
CO
oj oj « "5
<N 00
CO
^ C32
OJ —
« 00
hi CO
= 2
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April-May 1941
II. The subject-matter of the dreams was of an apparently trivial
nature and completely useless from the practical point of view, i.e.
as material for action.
III. In almost every case, however, the subject, though apparently
trivial, was one which had for me personally a strong emotional
significance. This point seems to me to be of importance. I there-
fore append a note on each of the dreams considered from this point
of view.
Dreams 1, 2, 14.
When a young child, I was at the seaside with my father. He
was carrying me in his arms and wading in the sea when a big wave
swept him off his feet and covered us both. I was terrified—it was
my first intimation that my father's protection was not infallible.
Since then I have always feared waves and the incoming tide.
These three dreams are therefore linked with a subconscious fear.
Dream 3.
When a child, a joint in one of my feet was dislocated and the
resulting slight enlargement of the foot has always been a trial to
me both because I hate deformity and because of a love of dancing.
Perfectly-shaped feet have therefore a strong emotional significance
for me.
Dream 4.
Thirty years or so ago I read an account of the cruelties involved
in the fur trade. Since then I have worn only " fabric furs " and
have such a horror of real fur that I dislike touching it. This dream
is therefore linked with a subconscious disgust.
In addition, I have all my life been very interested in dress, the
more so because as a child my clothes were so severe and ugly that
they were a continual trial to my growing sense of beauty. This
dream has therefore a double emotional link.
Dream 5.
I have always had a tendency to forget my umbrella, and , as my
income had recently dropped, I could no longer afford the habit of
losing my belongings. This is probably the emotional link with the
subject of lost property.
Dream 6.
I am very fond of animals (though nervous of some wild ones),
so much so that I have for over thirty years abstained from eating
meat.
April-May 1941 Foreknowledge in Dreams 57
Dreams 7 and 13.
I am so attached to my little dog that anything involving or
suggesting her is of strong emotional significance to me.
Dream 8.
For private reasons, Persian rugs happen to have for me a strong
emotional significance.
Dream 9.
See note on dream 4.
Dream 10.
Probably telepathic, the emotional link being my friendship with
the other dreamer.
Dream, 11.
"
I have all my life had an instinctive fear of heights, so much so
that though I lived in Switzerland for years I never dared to climb.
This dream is therefore linked with a subconscious fear.
Dream 12.
No clear emotional significance. As the details do not correspond
very exactly, I should regard this dream as a coincidence save that
it is a curious dream and otherwise unaccountable.
From the above analysis, it appears that although these dreams
seem trivial they are, in fact, selected dreams. Moreover, they are
selected in exactly the same way as most dreams are selected, i.e.
by their emotional significance for the dreamer.
It seems likely that the dreams emoted in Mr Saltmarsh's book
Foreknowledge are selected in the same way, though the dreamer
himself can best analyse his dreams in this connection.
Damage to a new carpet must have had an emotional significance
for Mrs Mackenzie (pp. 54-5). The Mrs C. who dreamed that she
was followed by a monkey is stated to have had
'
' an intense horror
of monkeys ". As regards the elderly Quaker who dreamed the
result of the Derby, Mr Saltmarsh says that such a precognition is
inappropriate and " we can assign no reasonable explanation of the
occurrence ". But he also says that the Quaker was "an ardent
opponent of betting ", i.e. the Derby, though forbidden to his
conscious thoughts, had a strong emotional significance for him.
An " ardent opponent " of betting cannot be, psychologically speak-
ing, " entirely uninterested " in horse-racing. He is, on the con-
trary, at least as interested in it as Lady Astor is interested in the
brewers! One might even imagine the worthy Quaker's dreaming
58 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April-May 1941
mind noting the winners in the spirit of the devout monk who,
while consciously faithful to his vows, was heard to murmur, as he
roused from sleep, " God is merciful. One has dreams!
"
IV. In the case of the majority of these dreams it is apparent that
the material was already in existence, though it had not yet reached
me, at the time of the dream, since they seem to relate to material
contained in my next morning's newspaper. (It may perhaps be
relevant to mention that I was leading a very quiet life at the time,
so that the paper was the chief event of my day.) Dream 11 and
possibly dream 2 might, if they stood alone, be best explained as
cases of clairvoyance in space, i.e. I may have seen clairvoyantly
the incidents in question. But in the majority of cases if foreknow-
ledge is excluded it would presumably be necessary to suppose that
the subject-matter of the newspaper articles was conveyed to me
by some form of telepathy between myself and the writers. The
supposition that I am in telepathic communication with an indefinite
number of (to me) unknown journalists in Fleet Street seems to me
more fantastic than the theory that my dreams offered me advance
knowledge of material which came my way in the normal course of
events a few hours later.
I think therefore that the simplest explanation of the series is
that my dreaming mind has the power, on occasion, to see my day's
activities in advance and to pick out bits of material which are of
emotional significance to me personally.
V. In the autumn of 1935 I was convalescing from a serious illness.
I had been ill throughout 1934 with nervous exhaustion, insomnia
and intermittent periods of somnambulism (dissociation) and was
still somewhat nervously exhausted in 1935. This may have some
connection with the fact that most of the dreams I collected were
in the first few months after I decided to watch them (autumn 1935).
Later, I had very occasional dreams of this type. I observed,
however, that these were mostly on nights when for one reason or
another I was sleeping less well than usual.
In my case, therefore, there seems to be a relation between nervous
disturbance and precognitive (or clairvoyant) dreaming. It is as
though when my nerves are at rest my dreaming mind is content
to chew the cud of past happenings. When I am in a disturbed
state, on the other hand, the dreaming mind has a tendency to peer
around to see what is ahead. It would be of interest to know how
far other experimenters have noted any relationship between nervous
disturbance and precognitive or clairvoyant dreaming.
VI. There seems to be nothing, either in the material given by Mr
Saltmarsh or in my own experience, to suggest that the capacity
April-May 1941 A Personal Experience 59
to glimpse the future is a power which is developing as evolution
proceeds. If anything, the evidence seems to point the other way.
The glimpses obtained are apparently determined by the dreamer's
emotions rather than by his intellect or his will, and though warnings
are sometimes conveyed, such dreams are in the main useless as
material for action. Moreover, there seems to be evidence that
primitives and even the " lower animals " are capable of foreknow-
ledge.
It seems possible, therefore, that these intermittent and often
useless glimpses of the future are stray survivals from an earlier
stage of evolution, when the " specious present " was wider than
now. Our sense of sight has developed throughout the ages from
a vague and diffuse awareness of light, which one finds even in
plants, to the accurate but narrowly-focussed mechanism of the
human eye. May it not be, therefore, that perception has become
similarly narrowed to the compass of a relatively brief " specious
present "? Humanity has, so to speak, put on blinkers, the better
to deal with the practical demands of the present moment. The
individual soul, a tiny fragment of the universal consciousness, has
evolved for itself an organism capable of action only within narrow
limits, not because the future is unknowable, but because its grasp
must be limited if it is to act with precision.
Knowledge of the future is certainly hard to reconcile with the
theory that memory depends on enduring traces in the physical
structure of the brain (p. 91 of Foreknowledge). There is, however,
at least a strong case for the rival theory that it depends on records
in what Professor McDougall calls " psychical structure ". We know
so little of the scope of such a structure that it would be rash to
exclude the possibility that it is in contact with a wider " specious
present " than our limited physical senses are able to span.
May it not be, then, that at some level, subconscious or super-
conscious, of our being, we all live, though we are seldom aware of
it, in a world where we are " not blinded by our eyes "?
Grace M. Bishop
A PERSONAL EXPERIENCE
The following record was sent to us by Mrs Charlotte Bacon, a
Member of the Society and the author of Infinite Traveller, reviewed
in Part 162 of Proceedings ; the experience described being that of
a friend, a former Associate of the Society, who is clearly accustomed
to accuracy of statement. It may have come in the form of a
hypnagogic vision of peculiar intensity, which could be classed
60 Joumal of Society for Psychical Research April-May 1941
with those described in Mrs Leaning's extensive paper on hypna-
gogic visions in Proceedings, Vol. XXXV. The experience, however,
is beyond the usual range of such visions both in its powerful
emotional content and in its impression of brilliance and colouring
outside the ordinary visual scope and not to be adequately described
in words. The impression of light in the room mentioned inde-
pendently by the experient's husband could suggest that the vision
had some objective character, unless we suppose this impression to
have been of telepathic origin.
Mrs Bacon wrote as follows :
I enclose an account of a " Vision " sent to me by the " Seer ",
an intimate friend—the Roberta Williams mentioned in my Acknow-
ledgments in Infinite Traveller. In regard to Mrs Williams' quali-
fications as a witness I may say that she was a " Clough " scholar
at Newnham, where she took the Mathematical Tripos, and is a
keen student of modern psychology. It is with her consent that
I send this account to you.
" Early in January 1941 I received very bad news which was a
great shock to me. My agony of mind was such that it was quite
impossible for me to sleep. I lay wide awake staring towards the
window which was of course completely blacked out.
" Suddenly to my utter astonishment I saw what looked like a
ragged curtain—with holes in it, and through these rents and holes
shone brilliant stars. As I watched, the curtain split right down
and revealed shapes and forms of the most marvellous colours
imaginable bathed in a living and dazzling light which lighted up
the whole room. These forms seemed to have an objective quality
entirely different from the colours I have sometimes seen when
sitting in the dark. I was so amazed and startled that I just lay
staring at the beauty of the scene revealed to my awed gaze and
it was some minutes before I began to wonder what its significance
might be. I then tested it by shutting and opening my eyes several
times ; but each time that I looked it was still there. I then turned
over in bed and looked at the other side of the room to see if the
vision followed my eyes, but it did not move, and when I looked
again towards the window it was still in the same place. I cannot
say how long it stayed, but I do know that it brought with it an inde-
scribable feeling of awe and reassurance and deepest thankfulness.
" I slept but little during the night, and in the morning my
husband who was sleeping in the same room said to me, " Why
did you light up the room in the night? " 1
I answered that I had
1
Mr Williams confirms this in a letter to the Editor.
Apeil-May 1941 Correspondence 01
not done so and he replied, " Well! When I woke up, once, in the
night, the room was full of light.'
" At breakfast I asked one of my daughters, who is an eye
specialist, whether the shock or any physical condition of my eyes
could account for what I saw. She asked me whether, when I moved
my eyes, the stars and colours moved with them, and my answer
was '
No '.
'In that case ', she said, '
there is no physical explana-
tion that I know of.'
"
M. R. Williams
(nee M. Roberta Atherton)
Further details given in answer to my questions. C. B.
1. " There are heavy lined curtains to the windows of my bed-
room and behind them are black-out curtains stretched tightly
against the windows."
2. " The '
shapes and forms '
were certainly not human and not
of any mathematical or even describable form—more like cloud-
forms, but, in substance not in the least like clouds because they
were not nebulous, more like pieces of colour with defined but soft
edges. . . . The brilliant light coming from behind them illuminated
all their marvellous colours."
3. " The shapes of these pieces did not remain constant but they
did not meet or merge."
4. "I cannot say that every colour in the spectrum was there,
indeed they none of them seemed like colours in the spectrum
because they were so much more brilliant. The wonder and glory
of these colours and their living light was something quite new in
my experience."
CORRESPONDENCE
HYPERAESTHESIA ?
To the Editor of The Journal
Sir,—I have read Mrs Salter's interesting article in the Journal
for March 1941 on experiments with Dr Gilbert Murray. I have
often read about hyperesthesia in this connection. But what is
really meant by this expression ? And have we any positive evidence
pointing to such a supposed faculty intervening in telepathic tests ?
Of course some people can hear better than others. Let us, for
simplicity, take only those in their prime (not deaf from age) and
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April-May 1941
exclude also those suffering from recognisable diseases of the ear.
Then if we test the minimum intensity audible of say a tuning-fork
of suitable pitch we shall get a frequency curve of this kind :
Acuity of hearing.
The highest ordinate of the curve represents the comparative size
of the largest group of people, and the corresponding abscissa repre-
sents the acuity of hearing on a suitable scale. How are we to dis-
tinguish on such a curve the group who possess hyperaesthesia ? If
only the part of the curve shown as a continuous line is found in
reality, then the only meaning that can be assigned is that hyper-
aesthesia is hearing somewhat better than in the ordinary.
If, on the other hand, the curve were found to include the dotted
portion, there would be some ground for saying that a group of
persons exists quite distinct from the ordinary who can hear much
fainter sounds, and, in fact, can exercise hyperaesthesia—hyper-
aesthetes I may call them.
Aural surgeons commonly make tests of hearing with a tuning-
fork. I wonder if they have ever encountered anything of the
kind? I doubt it. And without such evidence, hyperaesthesia has
really no definite meaning.
In my experiments on seeing fight near a magnet, I tried to
investigate this question for sight, and failed to find any indication
that there are visual " hyperaesthetes ".
The matter cannot be carried further without statistics as to
what people actually can hear. But, to express it roughly, it would
probably be found that most young people (twenty-five, say) have
about the same power of hearing, and that the idea of people who
can do wonderful feats in that way is a myth.
Yours, etc.,
Rayleigh
Paranormal Cognition
Sir,—I really do not understand why experimenters in Para-
psychology should be suspected of deliberately faking their results
any more than investigators in the field of normal Psychology. The
April-May 1941 Correspondence 63
suggestion that serious students of Psychical Kesearch are probably
either frauds or fools or both is a gratuitous insult to our subject
and should be disregarded by every honest investigator.
If one is engaged in experiments in Extra-Sensory Perception
where there are often unsuspected sources of error it is one's bounden
duty to call upon the assistance of other competent investigators
—
not, indeed, as a test of one's own veracity—but on the principle
that two or three heads and pairs of eyes are better than one. By
laying open one's experiments to the inspection of colleagues, sources
of error and faults in technique may come to light which would
otherwise have been passed over. It is also advisable to have helpers
to assist in the checking-up of results so as to avoid errors. But it
is another matter to suggest that Mr Carington ought to have called
in witnesses to testify that he exhibited a " hawk on Tuesday night
and not a handsaw ". This is merely ludicrous. What Mr Bester-
man and others fail to realize is that men of science are, as a rule,
not in the least interested in the methods of the Law Courts. They
infinitely prefer to read accounts of experiments which can be re-
peated indefinitely and at their leisure.
This demand for witnesses and ever more witnesses comes, I
notice, almost always from laymen who are obsessed with the
erroneous idea that science progresses by imitating the methods of
the examining counsel. Scientific workers seldom question the per-
sonal honesty of their colleagues, but confine themselves to criticism
of the techniques employed and the precautions taken in order to
avoid error. Mr Carington is trying to devise, with I understand
considerable success, a repeatable experiment. If, as we hope and
believe will be the case, Mr Carington's results are obtained by
independent workers in a score of laboratories, such criticisms as
those of Mr Besterman will count for nothing.
In a previous letter I touched on the advisability of safeguards
against irresponsible criticism, but after reading Mr Carington's
admirable defence I agree that it is probably wiser to ignore such
irrelevancies.
I am, Sir, yours faithfully,
S. G. Soal
(This discussion is now closed. It has served to draw a clearer
line between safeguards against experimental error and against mal-
practice. On the point which Mr Soal makes, that scientists are not
interested in evidence other than the verifiable facts themselves, the
position has also been lucidly defined by Professor Bergson in his
Presidential Address, Proc. LXVII, pp. 464, 466. Ed.)
64 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April-May 1941
Sir,—I am much indebted to those members who have volun-
teered to conduct independent experiments with drawings, and
results so far obtained are very promising. If any others feel that
they could undertake this sort of work, I hope they will let me
know, for I need as many experiments of this type as I can possibly
collect.
Even more pressing, however, is my need for a few independent
scorers, and I should be most grateful if any member who is willing
to co-operate in this way would communicate with me. The amount
of work involved would in no case be heavy, and could be done
at any time convenient to the scorer—the important thing is that it
should be done by someone other than myself.
I am, Sir, etc.,
Whately Carington
Ommen
Sennen Cove
Cornwall.
REVIEWS
The Journal of Parapsychology. Vol. 4, No. 2, December 1940.
The Editors make the welcome announcement that the Journal
will be published quarterly during 1941, thanks to the generosity
of three anonymous contributors. The first, and chief, article is a
paper on " Studies in Extra-Sensory Perception. A Review of all
University of Colorado Experiments " by Martin and Stribic. This
is a highly important contribution to the literature of the subject ;
it reports full details of four series of experiments, comprising 12,470
runs and extending over a period of three years. Three, out of these
four, gave significant results. Control series were obtained by
reverse matching and these showed a Critical Ratio (C.R.) of 1-00,
or exactly chance scoring. Precautions, such as screening, were
taken to eliminate sensory clues, and the " Down Through " tech-
nique was utilised throughout, with the exception of certain varia-
tions, in particular with one subject who had shown high scoring
ability with whom the " Up Through " method was also used.
Adequate supervision of the experiments was provided and great
care exercised in checking records for " recording error ". Full
details are given in a very large number of tables showing, among
other things, comparison with predictions on the binomial hypo-
thesis, hit frequencies in respect of card position, daily fluctuations
in scoring, etc. There are also many graphs. In regard to these
April-May 1941 Reviews 65
latter, it is a pity that the lettering is so small : I was unable to read
it without the aid of a magnifying glass.
Other interesting experimental variations were tried besides the
Up Through technique referred to above, such as laying out all
25 cards in a row, properly screened of course, and the subject
reading from left to right and vice versa. This is called " Equal
Exposure " or E.E. : laying out ten packs in a row behind the
screen and then placing one in a central position, which pack was
to be the E.S.P. target : delaying knowledge of the score, etc.
These variations are of great importance and further experimenta-
tion with them and others of a similar nature might profitably be
undertaken. The results tend to show that the subject has some
power of directing his E.S.P. faculty to a particular target out of
several, e.g. as in reading Up Through instead of Down Through.
The whole paper merits a most careful study by those who are
seriously interested in the research, not only on account of the high
significance of some of the results, but, more particularly, because
of the wealth of detail published.
The other report of experimental work is a paper on " Variation
of Time Interval in Pre-Shuffle Card-Calling Tests " by Lois Hutchin-
•son. The object of this research was to obtain precognitive know-
ledge of card position and to contrast results obtained for intervals
of one day and ten days. In the first series subjects were not told
their scores until twenty days after the experiment began, in the
second they were told daily after checking. Sensory clues were, of
course, excluded by the nature of the experiment. As regards
records, exceptional care was taken.
The first series yielded results of no significance for either the
one-day or ten-day intervals ; in the second, though the ten-day
group showed no significance, the one-day group gave a OR. of
3-11 and the difference between the two groups a OR. of 3-21.
The paper ends with an adequate discussion and a statement of
tentative conclusions.
The remaining papers deal mainly with the statistical side of
E.S.P. research. In an article by Dr Feller criticisms are raised on
three main grounds, viz. Shuffling, Selection and Optional Stopping.
These are answered by Greenwood and Stuart. Though some of
the arguments require technical knowledge for full understanding,
there is much in these two articles which can be appreciated by
non-mathematical readers. Foster deals with " A Perception Ratio
Statistic for E.S.P. Tests " and " To E.S.P. Diametric " in two short
articles. Dr Ellson criticises Pratt's use of Chapman's Statistics
and this criticism is answered by Pratt.
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research April-May 1941
The number closes with some short extracts from the comments
made by the Board of Review, a novel and extremely useful feature
which might with advantage be continued and possibly expanded.
H. F. S.
Widening Horizons. By Baron Erik Palmstierna. John Lane.
9s. 6d. net.
This is a book of edification rather than of research, and deals
chiefly with unverifiable pronouncements which must be weighed
by individual opinions as to their merits. The records that are
presented consist largely in questions put to Mrs Fachiri's controls
and their replies and subsequent reflections upon the problems that
are raised. Baron Palmstierna .renews the claim that " the sub-
conscious mind " can have little or no part in the productions of
this mediumship, and it is a relevant fact that the messages them-
selves can definitely contradict accepted views of subliminal action :
for instance, a question is put on the view that " some dreams
are the result of repressions and conflicts in the individual ". The
immediate reply is, " That is nonsense " ; dreams are reminiscent
of nocturnal journeyings out of the body, " or recollections from
your spirit life ". This persistent discounting of subliminal activity,
may have its pitfalls for readers who are new to the difficulties of
automatism and inclined to believe that it opens up a royal road,
an unquestionably clear channel of authentic communication. Such
an idea has too often led to painful disillusionments. Another ques-
tion that needs thought is that of the adequacy of the language of
automatism to express what may be the inspiration of the message.
To take a recurrent example, the modus operandi of spiritual forces
interpenetrating the material world is continually explained in these
messages by reference to " waves ", and the use of the term is so
frequent and facile that it conveys little meaning. We even find
that lifeless matter is described as being surrounded by stationary
waves, a conception of which it is not easy to make sense. On the
whole, the messages have less effect of conveying hints of significant
truth than those in Horizons of Immortality, and at times seem to
descend to an unsatisfying glibness, but there remains an interesting
quality about them, and at their best they often give food for
thought. K. R.
Psychology in the Light of Psychic Phenomena. By Hereward
Carrington. David McKay Co. Pp. 214. $2.00 net.
The word Psychology is to-day used in such an elastic way
—
at one moment to denote the laboratory work of graphs and measure-
April-May 19-11 Reviews 67
merits, at another the living, empirical, hit-or-miss procedure of
the psycho-analytic consulting-room, that the reader may wonder
which aspect of this myriad-sided subject will be under discussion.
Pmt the author uses the word in the sense in which it is defined in
the Oxford Dictionary—'"'
The science of the nature, functions, and
phenomena of the human soul or mind "
—and the book should prove
to be, both for psychical researchers and the intelligent public, a
stimulating picture of the many unexplained and puzzling facts
which still have to be explored and proved before they can be
assimilated into the body of scientific and philosophic thought.
Mr Carrington's aim throughout is to plead the great importance
of psychical research, and to show how revolutionary must be the
change in all our philosophic conceptions once the strange facts of
psychical phenomena are so well proven and established that they
can no longer be ignored. This plea has of course been as it were
the theme-song of researchers ever since the Psychical Research
Society was founded, but the author has summarised the subject
in such a comprehensive and readable way that one is struck afresh
both by its strangeness and its far-reaching import.
The book is divided conveniently into four parts. Introduction ;
Psychology in the Light of Psychic Phenomena ; Some Sittings with
Mrs Piper ; On the Mechanism of the Acquisition of Supernormal
Knowledge, and an Appendix, Some problems of Philosophy in the
Light of Psychic Research. There is a short index of names.
In the first part the author shows that the main obstacle to the
acceptance of the facts of psychic research is the mechanistic view
that brain -and mind are inseparably connected, and that neither
can live or function without the other. Opposition hinges almost
entirely on this fundamental concept. He admits, naturally, that
the actuality of supernormal phenomena must be further established,
and he analyses, briefly, their various forms. His headings include
Oriental psychology, the mind-body problem, dreams, multiple per-
sonality, obsession, hypnotism, apparitions, the psychology of com-
munication—these are only a few of the subjects touched upon.
To illustrate communication, which the author considers " the
final problem, the most crucial and the most important of them all ",
some sittings with Mrs Piper are given, which are representative of
trance sittings and illustrate the strange sequence of events, the
veridical knowledge—also the mistakes and puzzles with which
researchers are familiar. There are some letters from Mr George
Dorr discussing these sittings, but the general discussion as to the
conflicting theories of telepathy, clairvoyance, etc., is left till the
next section on The Mechanism of the Acquisition of Supernormal
68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Apml-May 1941
Knowledge. Here the subconscious mind is discussed, and the
author considers that the conception of the unconscious must be
made to include supernormal phenomena. He sketches a scheme,
illustrated by a diagram, of our unconscious mind, and suggests that
we may also have to admit the existence of a superconscious function,
and refers to Mrs Lyttelton's book, Our Superconscious Mind, in
corroboration of this. Another diagram suggests the various
channels by which knowledge from the subconscious mind finds its
avenues of expression. Such diagrams are admittedly arbitrary
and personal, but serve again to remind the reader of the vastness
and variety of the subject. Some interesting introspections are
quoted from well-known mediums—Mrs Osborne Leonard, Mrs Helen
Hughes, Mrs Edith M. Thomson and others, including Miss Goodrich-
Freer ; there is a case-history of some striking telepathic or clair-
voyant experiences and the subject's theories as to the modus
operandi—theories which may represent to some extent those held
by the author. He quotes an introspection by Mrs Carrington made
after her experiences with ether administered for an operation, and
ends by making a plea for correlating both psychical and mystical
experiences as a basis for the coming science.
In the fourth section the author touches on the leading concep-
tions of philosophic thought with regard to mind, brain, and con-
sciousness, the outer and the inner world, and their relationship.
He deduces from this review the reality of the inner world, and again
points out the main difficulties in forming an idea of this relation-
ship.
The author might perhaps have emphasised the fact that good
progress has been made of late in the knowledge of human per-
sonality and the unconscious mind, owing to the experiences of
psycho-analysis ; he might perhaps have ventured a prophecy as
to the great importance of the new statistical approach shown in
the work of Mr Whately Carington, Mr Soal, and Dr Rhine, but
with his last sentence and final conclusion few psychic researchers
will disagree, that " Psychic science ... is doubtless destined to rule
and dominate the whole world of thought, and to influence the belief
of humanity as to its ultimate destiny and the meaning of life ".
Ixa Jephson
No. 576-577—Vol. XXXII June-July 1941
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
The Rooms of the Society will be closed after Thursday, 31 July,
until Monday, 15 September. Correspondence will be forwarded to
the Staff during this time. The next number of the " Journal "
will be issued in October.
NEW MEMBERS
(Elected 8 May 1941)
West, D. J., 5 Alexander Road, Blundellsands, Liverpool 23.
[Elected 26 June 1941)
Tayleur, Mrs, Services Club, Hendford Hill, Yeovil, Somerset.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 171st Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library on Wednesday. 28 May 1941, at 4.30 p.m., Mr W. H. Salter
in the Chair.
A paper entitled " Jung's Conception of the Structure of Person-
ality, from the Point of View of Psychical Research " was read
by Dr H. Godwin Baynes. The paper will be published later in
Proceedings.
THE AMERICAN S.P.R.
In a recent issue of the Journal we announced the gratifying news
that the American Society for Psychical Research had been recon-
structed under the Presidency of Dr George H. Hyslop. We now
learn the still more welcome news that the Boston Society for
Psychic Research has been amalgamated with the American Society,
and that the two Societies will henceforth function under the name
of the American Society for Psychical Research, with headquarters
at 40 East 34th Street, New York City.
Mrs Allison writes as follows: " At a meeting in January 1941.
Dr George H. Hyslop, son of Dr James H. Hyslop, was elected
70 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June-July 1941
President of the American Society, to the gratification of everyone
interested in serious psychical research. At the same meeting Dr
Gardner Murphy, who has been on the Council of the Boston Society
since its formation in 1925, was elected a trustee of the American
Society, and appointed chairman of the Research Committee. A
general reorganization followed.
" The Council of the Boston Society and the Board of Trustees of
the American Society, after careful consideration, decided that an
amalgamation at this time would be advantageous to all concerned.
As conditions in Europe have naturally limited the distinguished
work that has been carried on there, it appeared self-evident that
united effort in this country was necessary.
" The amalgamation was therefore effected as of May 1, 1941 and
the two societies will now function as one society under the name of
the American Society for Psychical Research.
" Besides Dr Murphy, three members of the Council of the Boston
Society have been elected as trustees of the American Society.
They are : Mr H. Addington Bruce, Mr Waldemar Kaempffert and
Mrs Edward Wood Allison.
" The membership of the Boston Society is about equally divided
between residents of Boston and its vicinity and those living in other
parts of the country. Plans are under way to form a group to carry
on activities in Boston. Mr Bruce will be the chairman and Dr
Murphy and Mrs Allison will represent the interests of the Boston
Group in New York.
" The library of the Boston Society remains in Boston. It has been
deposited at the Boston Medical Library, 8 Fenway, where the books
will be at the disposal of members.
" Plans are under way to establish a Hyslop-Prince annual Fellow-
ship, the purpose of which is two-fold : to furnish an opportunity for
carefully selected university students to familiarize themselves with
the great traditions of psychical research and its important literature;
and also to enable them to carry out original research projects under
proper supervision. This fills a long-felt need, as nothing seems more
important than attracting young people to the work in order to safe-
guard its future.
" The members of the Society will in the future receive regular pub-
lications. The Society will publish a quarterly, the first issue of
which will reach you in July."
The Governing Body of the American S.P.R. hopes that all
members of the Boston Society will transfer their membership to
the American Society.
JuNE-JuiiY 1941 Paranormal Cognition 71
PARANORMAL COGNITION : SOME OBSERVED RESULTS
IN MR SOAL'S FURTHER EXPERIMENTS
By the Editor
Readers of Proceedings, Part 162 (June 1940), will remember that
the striking effects in card-guessing which Mr Soal has there recorded
were obtained with two percipients. Their previous results, which
had shown no significance in respect of the card at which their guess
was aimed, were among those re-examined for an effect which Mr
Carington had detected in his research into the paranormal cognition
of drawings : a tendency to score beyond chance probability, not
upon the picture aimed at, but upon the picture immediately pre-
ceding or following it. In the case of these two percipients this
effect was also discovered by Mr Soal ; and he has lately been con-
ducting further intensive experiments with one of the percipients,
Mr B. S., whose faculty shows special points of interest.
Certain results of this work, which is still in progress, seem
sufficiently definite and assured to be recorded in the Journal. The
notes printed below are reports which I sent to Mr Soal and Professor
Broad after acting as observer of the experiments upon two occasions,
and appear in this form by Mr Soal's permission. They thus repre-
sent the personal impressions and current comments of one eye-
witness.
To give, first, some idea of the experimental method used by Mr
Soal and of the conditions obtaining, in so far as these will not be
explained in the notes which follow : the experimenter's table is
placed in one room, Mr B. S's studio, and Mr B. S., the percipient,
sits in an adjoining room with the door closed between the two
rooms. On one side of the table sits the agent, Miss Elliott. 1
In
front of her five picture cards, previously shuffled, are laid face
downwards. The pictures are of five different animals, and the aim
of the percipient in the other room is to obtain a correct impression
(visual or other) by which he can rapidly note down which of the
five animal cards is being picked up and looked at by the agent at
any given moment. He makes his notes upon a prepared score-
sheet by writing down initial letters for the animals—E for elephant,
G for giraffe, and so on. The effect thus aimed at is presumably
telepathic ; when it is desired to make a test for clairvoyant effects,
the agent does not look at the faces of the cards as they are selected.
(This is not a rigorous test to exclude telepathy, since after some use
the backs of the cards may become distinguishable by slight effects
1
Except on one or two occasions it has not been found possible to obtain
successful results with persons other than Miss Elliott acting as agent.
72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June-July 1941
of wear : but it has been found in practice that no significant results
are obtained when the agent does not look at the faces of the cards.)
Selection of the cards is effected as follows. The agent's half of
the table is divided from the other half by a screen of plywood, in
which is a rectangular aperture so placed that the agent cannot see
through it what manipulations are carried out on the other side.
Here the experimenter has five cards numbered 1 to 5, and a pre-
viously prepared list of numbers from 1 to 5 in random sequence.
As he comes to each number in the list he takes up the corresponding
numbered card and holds it up to the aperture. (At this moment
he shouts " Next! " to the percipient in the other room, as a signal
for him to record his next impression ;
having done so, the per-
cipient shouts " Right! " as a signal for the next card to be selected.)
On seeing the number in the aperture, the agent selects the 1st, 2nd,
3rd, 4th or 5th card of the row lying face downwards before her,
counting from left to right.
By this method selections were made and signalled at a rate of
about one every two seconds. To make tests with a series that
should not be predetermined, and also when a more rapid process of
selection and calling was required, the list of numbers and the
numbered cards were replaced by a bag or bowl containing a quan-
tity of oounters of five different colours, each colour being taken to
represent one of the numbers from 1 to 5. The experimenter then
made random selection, by touch, of a succession of single counters
and held them in turn up to the aperture, the agent proceeding as
before, but having the different mental process to carry out of
selecting a card according to the agreed meaning of the colour
presented. By this method calls of " Next " were made at intervals
of roughly 1 second, the answering call of " Right " from the per-
cipient in the next room being eliminated.
I have recorded in my notes that I was able to observe no means
by which relevant sensory clues could pass between the experimenter
and the agent. On the occasions when I was witness of the procedure
at the experimenter's table I myself shuffled the cards before each
experiment, out of sight of the experimenter, who thus had no
opportunity, until the experiment was ended, of knowing in what
order they were placed before the agent.
What follows is the substance of my two reports. It will be
realised that points of comment and criticism which arise were
noted as a matter of co-operation with Mr Soal, who was in process
of devising as watertight a technique as possible to suit the partic-
ular circumstances in which the work was carried out. I may remark
also that it was my business as an investigator to see whether any
June-July 1941 Paranormal Cognition 73
method was physically possible by which Mr B. S. might be obtain-
ing sensory clues: I did not and do not consider that there was any
psychological Likelihood of his wishing or attempting to do so.
28 Feb. 41, 4.30—6.30 p.m.
Experimenter, Mr Soal. Agent, Miss EUiott. Percipient, Mr B. S.
Subject of test, 5 cards depicting animals, in random sequence.
Conditions of Experiment
The experimenter's table was at one corner of a large, windowless,
basement studio. Three entrances to this studio were in use,
opening through the walls remote from this corner :
(1) Entrance, closed by a door during the experiments, to the
room in which Mr B. S. sat to record his impressions.
(2) Entrance to another room which communicated by an open
doorway with the room in which Mr B. S. sat. During the 4 occa-
sions on which I sat with Mr B. S. while he filled in a record sheet
(of 50 guesses each time), there were 2 occasions when a young lady,
probably a business assistant of Mr. B. S., was visible through the
open communicating doorway. Mr B. S. did not look up at her from
his record sheet, and on both occasions fidgetted and paused as
though distracted by the sound of her movements. The circum-
stance suggested no suspicion to me, but it might be well to ehminate
any conceivable communication, during experiments, between Mr
B. S. and members of his staff who have access to the studio—al-
though I can imagine no way in which relevant information could
thus be conveyed to Mr B. S. Nothing could be seen from entrance
(2) of the cards on the agent's side of the table : the screen was in
the way. Standing at entrance (2) with a view of the table, one
could not see or be seen by Mr. B. S. where he was sitting.
(3) Entrance to photographic workroom into which Mr B. S.
went, at intervals between experiments, to attend to prints which
were undergoing a glazing process. I followed him into this room two
or three times and saw nothing to suggest the use of any optical
or photographic device relevant to the experiments, supposing that
any such device could be of use.
Considering that Mr B. S., as a professional photographer, would
have knowledge and equipment suitable for the arrangement of
some device for obtaining a clandestine view of the experimenter's
table, I looked carefully for anything suspicious on these lines, and
observed nothing. I do not, in any case, see how any such device
could achieve the precognitive results which were the only positive
ones obtained during my visit.
I may note, here, that while sitting with Mr B. S. I observed that in
74 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June-July 1941
recording his impressions, by filling in the initial letters for animals
upon the record sheets before him, he placed these initial letters in
correct succession so as to correspond on the sheets with the random
series used at the experimenter's table. In particular, the initials
were not displaced so as to give a subsequent impression of a pre-
cognitive effect which had not in fact occurred. The conditions
would not preclude this in experiments during which the percipient
sits alone, though no fallacious positive precognitive effect would
result unless he were obtaining either correct paranormal impres-
sions or sensory clues with regard to the cards selected at the
experimenter's table.
Notes on the Course of the Experiments
It will be convenient to describe as one experiment the making
and recording of a sequence of 50 guesses, this being the number
recorded on one record-sheet, and there being more or less of a break
between one sequence of 50 and the next. 8 sheets were filled in
during my visit.
Mr Soal calls " Next ", loud enough to be heard in the room
where Mr B. S. sits, at the moment when he presents a numbered
card at the partition window, thus indicating to Miss Elliott which
of the 5 cards to pick up. Mr B. S. calls " Right " when he has
recorded his guess. Occasionally the call of " Right " preceded the
call of '"
Next " or was practically simultaneous with it. When
sitting with Mr B. S. I observed that on a number of occasions (see
below) he wrote down the initial letter on his record-sheet about
1 sec. by stop-watch before Mr Soal's " Next " was heard, but waited
to call " Right " until he heard Mr Soal's call. When he called
" Right " before hearing the call of " Next " he appeared to do so
automatically on completion of the act of writing down the initial,
and as though under some pressure from the urgency of the impres-
sion received. It might be of interest to have some record-sheets
filled in by witnesses sitting with Mr B. S., for the purpose of noting
the occasions when (a) his writing down of the initial, and (6) his
call of " Right ", precedes Mr Soal's call of " Next ", so that the
correctness of these guesses may be compared with that of guesses
which do not run ahead of Mr Soal's call of " Next ", These
" advanced " guesses, also, might be correlated with cards two in
advance of the selected card.
When, as frequently happens, the sequence of calls, " Next "
—
" Right "—" Next "—" Right ", falls into an even rhythm, the
interval between one " Next " and the following one varies only
between T8 and 2-2 sees. In the two longest periods of this regular
June-July 1941 Paranormal Cognition 75
rhythm which I observed, there was one in which Mr B. S. was
comfortably writing down the initials at or immediately after the
moment of Mr Soal's call, and himself calling " Right " about 1 sec.
later than the call (7th exjoeriment) ; and one in which he was
writing down the initials regularly before Mr Soal's call, and himself
calling " Right " almost at the moment of Mr Soal's call (5th
experiment). In the latter case he showed signs of mental dis-
comfort after (not during) the completion of the record-sheet, and
did not think he had done well : actually, he had 11 correct pre-
cognitive guesses in the first 25 on this sheet, but dropped to 3 pre-
cognitive in the second 25.
I should say that Mr B. S's impressions " want " to over-run the
rate at which Mr Soal's calls can be made ; that this speeding-up
pressure is uncomfortable, and that he tries to keep clown to an easy
rhythm corresponding to that of Mr Soal's calling ; but he remarked
to me, " If I get it I must put it down ", and he seems often to be
driven by this urgency to an acceleration which may or may not
settle down again into a rhythmic series of recordings ahead of Mr
Soal's calling.
Before the 5th experiment he asked for slower calling on Mr Soal's
part, but during the experiment asked for more speed. I should say
that the attempt to get down to a slower rhythm had the reverse effect
from his intention : his impressions ran ahead of Mr Soal's calling,
giving positive precognitive results in the first half of the experiment ,
but a low precognitive score in the second half, when, presumably,
his acceleration had to be checked from racing further ahead.
I should be inclined to try the experiment of following Mr B. S's
acceleration, when it occurs, up to the maximum rate at which he is
able to fill in the initial letters on his record-sheet, postponing the
process of card-selection at the table meanwhile : i.e., to leave the
cards alone and continue to call " Next " more and more closely
to the moment at which Mr B. S. calls " Right ", until the end of
that record-sheet is reached, and then to see (from the list of pre-
selected numbers) if any result has been produced comparable to
the results of " down-through " calling in Rhine's experiments.
Notes during Individual Experiments :
Expt. 1. (K. R. at experimenter's table.) One " Right " heard
at the moment when the number-card was presented at partition
window ; one about -2 sec. before. Other calls of " Right
"
followed after the presentation of number-cards but preceded
or coincided with the agent's turning-up of the picture card
(Score not significant.)
76 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June-July 1941
Expt. 2. (K. R. at experimenter's table.) In no instance in this
series did the " Right " precede the turning-up of the picture
card. (Precognitive score 18/48.)
Expt. 3. (K. R. at experimenter's table.) One " Right " (the
first) came about -2 sec. before, one other simultaneously with,
the turning-up of the picture card ; the rest were subsequent.
(Precognitive score 16/48.)
Expt. 4. (K. R. sitting with Mr B. S.) In 17 instances (distribu-
tion of these not noted) the initial was written down, or had
begun to be written, when Mr Soaks " Next " was heard.
Mr B. S. remarked after finishing the sheet, " If I get it I must
put it down ". (Clairvoyance expt. : no positive result.)
Expt. 5. (K. R. sitting with Mr B. S.) 34 of the initials were
written down, or in process of being (rapidly) written, when
Mr Soal's " Next " was heard. 25 of these 34 were in sequence,
roughly Nos. 20 to 45.
Mr. B. S. said afterwards that this expt. " did not feel good ",
and was slightly agitated and restless. (The count showed 11
precognitive hits in the first 25, 3 in the second). My impression
was that his slight nervous distress came not from the fact of
speeding up, but from trying to impose the necessary check
upon acceleration. His hand holding the pencil twitched after
writing down an initial as though impatient to go on at once to
the next.
Expt. 6. (K.R. at experimenter's table.) Mr B. S.'s call of
" Right " came regularly about 1 sec. after Mr Soal's " Next ".
(Precognitive score 21/48.)
Expt. 7. (K. R. sitting with Mr B. S.) Mr B. S. wrote down all
the initials either at (2 or 3 times), or immediately after Mr
Soal's call, the rhythm seeming easy and comfortable. At the
end he remarked, " That should be rather good ". (Clairvoy-
ance expt. : no positive result.)
Expt. 8. (K. R. sitting with Mr B. S.) Course of events very
similar to that in Expt 7. Subsequent comments by Mr B. S. :
" That felt quite good ", and—indicating the 2nd column of
25 guesses
—" Quite likely you'll get more on the actual card
in this lot." In fact, 6 were correct out of these 25, on the actual
card : the total precognitive score was 20/48.
If these few observations on the relation between percipient's
expectation and actual result are typical, it looks as though Mr B.
S's impressions of success have not much relation to fact, and they
may represent a " referred "feeling which actually arises from success
June-July 1941 Paranormal Cognition 77
in arriving at a comfortable rhythm. It is possible that this easy
rhythm—a successful adaptation to the exterior tuning conditions
determined by the rate at which cards can be selected and presented
at the experimenter's table—could be made habitual only at the
expense of the successful registration of paranormal impacts (or
paranormal prehensions). On the other hand, an easy, rhythmic
procedure seems at times to go with significant scoring, and if this
is so it should be worth while to try to maintain the conditions in
which this happy conjunction occurs. The tension and discomfort
connected with Expt. 5 may represent the emergence into con-
sciousness of a kind of stress which is part of the process of successful
scoring, but too much stress probably fatigues the faculties involved
and operates against further success, whereas the combination of
good scoring with an easy rhythm would favour long sequences of
success. Mr B. S., however, is of a type that gets results in general
through tensions and nervous cross-currents, and it may be that
relaxion and smoothness of rhythm would not be greatly conducive
to success in his particular case. But some study of the rhythms
involved, and tentative experiment concerning them, might be
enlightening. Of course, the more data we can have established
about the timing that occurs in these rapid precognitive phenomena,
the better we shall understand the conditions required for their
production.
Experiments conducted on 21 Mar. 41, 5 to 7 p.m.
The conditions of experiment resembled those noted in my first
report, with the following exceptions :
Selection of cards at the experimenter's table was not by pre-
determined random series of the numbers 1 to 5, but by undeter-
mined random series obtained by the use of counters of 5 different
colours. Selection of the counters by touch was carried out by Mrs
Goldney, who also gave the call of " Next " to Mr B. S. in the next
room.
On the agent's side of the table Miss Elliott had the 5 cards
further screened from any possible observation by a box with its
opening towards herself.
All three entrances into the studio, and also those into the room
where Mr B. S. sat, were closed during the experiments, when only
Mr Soal, Mrs Goldney and Miss Elliott were present in the studio.
Mr B. S. did not enter the photographic workroom between exjjeri-
ments.
During the 1st experiment (3 sheets of 50 guesses each) a lady
assistant of Mr B. S. was working at a photographic retouching table
78 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June-July 1941
in the room where he sat. She finished her work and left before the
following experiments. I observed no communication between her
and Mr B. S., and satisfied myself that the retouching table was
innocent of any suspicious apparatus.
Apart from the elimination of any remote possibility of signals
being physically conveyed to Mr B. S., I may note that I see no
possible means by which any such signals could be of the least use
for producing the precognitive phenomena observed. On this
occasion I sat with Mr B. S. throughout the series of experiments and
noted that, as before, he wrote down the initial letters on his record
sheets in the proper spaces to correspond in numerical order with
the calls heard from the next room, and could in no way have
produced faked precognitive results. It is obvious that even if he
had had a television screen before him giving a plain view of each
card as it was selected, he would have been no better able to note
the succeeding cards before they were selected. Any method of
fraud whatever, to produce apparent precognitive effects, would
depend on (a) displacement of the initials on his record-sheets or
(b) letting the writing down of the initials lag behind the calling
from the next room. Neither of these things occurred, except one
brief period of lag which will be noted and was not associated with
any positive result.
If, however, they may be thought to have occurred during any
previous experiments during which Mr B. S's procedure in filling in
his record-sheets was not watched, the present elimination of remote
possibilities of sensory clues makes it the more unlikely that any
suspicion concerning previous experiments can be worth consider-
ing, since positive scores continue to be recorded under the more
precisely controlled conditions.
Experiments Observed. (K. R. sitting with Mr B. S. throughout.)
In none of these experiments did Mr B. S's writing down of
initials on his record-sheets run noticeably ahead of the calls
of " Next ", as they did in the experiments I last observed :
the initials were put down at or soon after the calls—in every
case before the following call, except at the one point to be
noted below.
In this report I will describe as one experiment the making
and recording of a sequence of 150 guesses (3 record-sheets),
this being the number made at one sitting, before a break was
taken and the results inspected.
Expt. 1. Interval between the calls of " Next " from the studio,
about 2 sees., Mr B. S's call of " Right " occurred pretty regu-
June-July 1941 Paranormal Cognition 7!)
larly about half-way between the calls of " Next " ; his writing
down of initials varied between virtual simultaneity of the call
of " Next " with the commencement of the initial, and approxi-
mate simultaneity of this with the call of " Right ". Rhythm
notably more easy and flowing than in the expts. I observed
on 28 Feb. 41.
Sheet 1. Mr B. S. remarked on finishing it, " that should be
rather good ". (Precognitive score 23/48.)
Sheet 2. Several calls of " Next " in the 2nd 25 were at longer
intervals than 2 sec, one especially long with audible talk
from the studio. (Precognitive score 23/48.)
Sheet 3. More regular, but at times slightly faster calling—two
timed intervals when speeding-up was noticeable were of 1-6
sec. between one " Next " and the following one. (Precognitive
score 15/48.)
At the end of this expt. Mr B. S. said he felt the beginnings of a
typical fatigue and headache which he experiences after this
work. He compared his feeling while completing Sheet 3 with
that of a bather who is getting tired after swimming some
distance and has lost the sense of freshness and invigoration
felt at the beginning of the swim. He had appeared quite easy
during the expt.
Expt. 2. A change of method was introduced, Mrs Goldney, still
using coloured counters, calling " Next " at intervals (when
these could be kept regular) of 1-4 sec. or less while Mr B. S.
recorded his guesses without giving the answering call of
" Right ". During stretches of regular calling at this rate, Mr
B. S. was writing down initials almost continuously, apparently
at a comfortable speed.
Sheet 4. After completing this sheet Mr B. S. remarked that the
calling felt too quick for impressions to come through :
" the
mind just puts things down "
—
i.e., apparently, only a motor
response is consciously experienced.
Several breaks occurred in the regularity of calling, owing to
difficulty of always picking up one counter at a time when
making random selection rapidly and by touch alone.
Significant precognitive scoring on the card two ahead of the
card selected was found to begin with this sheet : successes
13/46.
Sheets 5 and 6. Much smoother calling, Mrs Goldney's fingers
apparently growing accustomed to random selection by touch.
(-2) successes, 9/46 and 22/46.
Mr B. S. remarked at the end of this expt. that it was comfortable
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June-July 1941
work while the rhythm was regular but that any break in the
rhythm gave a jolt and a confused feeling.
Precognitive scores on the card 1 ahead of the card selected were
found not to be significant in this expt., and a count was made
of scores on the card two ahead, with the results noted above.
Such results, it was suggested in my last report, might be found
to occur at the then rate of calling when Mr. B. S's impressions
were running in advance of the calls. The more rapid method
now introduced seems to meet Mr B. S's tendency, as then
observed, to run ahead of the calling, and to correspond with his
comfortable maximum speed for recording impressions by the
writing down of initial letters, with the effect of shifting his
telepathic " view " of the card-images seen by the agent to
the card two in advance of that in her present-time field of
vision. It may be that his precognitive perception has got
used to working with a time-focus in the specious present 2
sees, in advance of the agent's sensory " present moment
"
(2 sees, being the customary interval between presentations
hitherto), and that this determines his selection of the image
nearest in time to 2 sees, ahead. 1
It was decided that the more rapid method of calling should
be continued in the next expt., with a view to confirming the
apparent results of this method.
Expt. 3. Sheet 7. Mr B. S. called " Stop! " half-way through the
first column of 25 guesses, and then " Right " after a pause of
2 or 3 sees. He explained after completing this sheet that hav-
ing looked at the coloured counters during the conversation in
the studio after expt. 2, he had found himself, in Sheet 7,
getting impressions of colours and wanting to write down the
initial letters of colours. He had in fact put down " W " for
white in one place, and this was followed by a gap in his record
of guesses. He said that he would be able to prevent this effect
from occurring. Apparently the confusion caused by competing
images is responsible both for gaps on this Sheet and for a hitch
that occurred later (see note on Sheet 9). (-2) successes, 14/35.
Sheet 8. The first 25 calls came at intervals of very little over
1 sec, the second 25 at intervals of less than 14 sec. (-2)
successes, 11/46.
Sheet 9. Intervals less than 1-4 sec. in first 25, just over 1 sec. in
second 25. In the second 25 Mr B. S. seemed to experience
some confusion of impressions and was held up at the 17th guess
1
Mr Soal independently put forward the same view in a letter to me which
crossed in the post with this report.—K. R.
June-July 1941 Paranormal Cognition 8]
for about 2 sees. ; he then wrote down 5 or 6 initials after the
subsequent calls were heard, until by writing rapidly he had
caught up with the lag caused by this delay. After finishing
this Sheet he spoke of having got confused and said that the
second 25 was " not so good ". In fact the precognitive score,
two ahead, was 10 on the first 25 and 5 on the second. (-2)
successes, 15/46.
Although the calling at the slower rate, in Expt. 1, was accom-
panied by an apparently easy and rhythmic response from Mr B. S.,
and the subsequent faster calling involved occasional checks in the
rhythm through difficulty in rapid manipulation of the counters,
besides the confusions that arose from the intrusion of colour-images,
my impression was that the faster rate in Expts. 2 and 3 was easier
for the percipient. He did not mention fatigue or headache after
these expts., and seemed quite fresh at the end of them.
It would be interesting if one could find out whether the intrusion
of colour-images coincides with any momentary stress in the agent's
mind in the process of rapidly translating the colour of the counter
presented into its significance as indicating a particular card : it
could be expected that when her mental process passes smoothly
from perception of the colour to immediate choice of the indicated
card, there would be less tendency of the colour-image to become
isolated in her mind for a moment in which it might be " caught
"
by the percipient's mind. If this is so, it seems likely that as Miss
Elliott gets more accustomed to the rapid translation of colour-
signals, the tendency to confusion in the perceptions received by
Mr B. S. will decrease. Also Mr B. S. should be able with further
practice to inhibit the cognition of colour-images.
The (-2) successes, Mr Soal has since informed me, give a value
for x of 4-76 x Standard Deviation. This is subject to re-evaluation
with allowance for imperfectly random series in the method of
selection by coloured counters, though any difference should be of
slight effect. The results obtained are undoubtedly impressive and
of great theoretical interest.
Mr Soal's habitual exactitude in method is well known, but I may
note for completeness that I observed all the processes of checking up
results in detail on the record-sheets and saw no loopholes for error.
To give an idea of the numerical results up to the time of my
second visit, I append two tables : the first, prepared from Mr
Soal's figures by Mrs Goldney, represents the percipient's guesses
as compared with the card one ahead of the card ostensibly aimed
at. [These are described as " (-1) guesses ".]
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June-July 1941
Record of Successes in precognitive guessing, with either Miss
Elliott or (once) K. M. Goldney as Agent.
N.B.—Clairvoyance Experiments omitted. Also speeding-up
experiment on March 21st omitted. Also occasions when Mrs B. S.
was Agent. 1
Date
Number
of(-l)
guesses
( - 1)
successes
times the
Standard
Deviation ^
Odds against re-
sults being due to
chance
24/1/41 192 67 4-9 x S.D. More than
1 million to 1
31/1/41 192 30 Not . . . (he scored on
significant actual cfi rd )
7/2/41 144 39 2-18 x S.D. More than 20 to 1
14/2/41 240 88
'
6 09 x S.D. More than
100 million to 1
21/2/41 384 111 4-07 x S.D. More than
10,000 to 1
988
AGO QQ O DO X O.U. ivioie 111(111
10 million to 1
7/3/41 288 in 7-5 x S.D. More than
1,000 million to 1
14/3/41 288 98 5-4 x S.D. More than
10 million to 1
21/3/41 144 61 6-54 x S.D. More than
100 million to 1
Totals 2,160 704 13-7 x S.D.
Significant beyond
question
The second table gives the results oh the occasion of my second
visit, when counters were used in place of a predetermined list of
numbers, and after three record-sheets had been rilled the calling
was speeded up from its " normal " rate of about one call in two
seconds to a " rapid " rate approaching one. call per second. The
percipient's guesses are shown as compared both with the card one
ahead of the card ostensibly aimed at [" ( - 1) guesses "] and with
the card two ahead [" (-2) guesses "]. It will be noted how the
(
- 2) guesses acquire a significant value with the acceleration in the
rate of calling.
1
On these occasions no significant results were observed.
2
The expectations were calculated by Stevens' method for sets of 24 and the
results summed.
June-July 1941 Paranormal Cognition 83
Experiments (9 record sheets) of 21 March, 1941
Normal Rate
Sheet
(-1)
Guesses
(-1)
Successes
(-2)
Guesses
(-2)
Successes
1
2
3
J24
[24
/24
[24
J24
[24
11
12
14
9
. 7
8
23
23
23
23
23
23
3
4
1
5
5
2
144 61 138 20
Rapid Rate
4
5
6
7
8
9
J24
[24
J24
[24
/24
124
/22
1 18
J24
[24
J24
[24
8
6
6
0
6
4
6
2
7
4
4
4
23
23
23
23
23
23
20
15
23
23
23
23
7
6
5
4
10
12
5
9
5
6
10
5
280 57 265 84
The ( - 1) successes at the normal rate and the ( - 2) successes at
the rapid rate give figures of 6-54 and 4-76 times the Standard
Deviation, respectively—both highly significant. (Figures supplied
by Mr Soal, subject to slight correction for imperfectly random
series obtained by the method of selection by picking out counters.)
The ( - 2) successes at the normal rate and the (
- 1) successes at
the rapid rate give figures showing no significance.
K. R.
84 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June-July 1941
CORRESPONDENCE
Hyperaesthesia
To the Editor of The Journal
Sir, —Lord Rayleigh's letter in the April-May number of the
Journal raises points of great interest to the layman, especially
regarding sight. I have no expert knowledge, but I always imagined
that over and above what sight he called supernormally good sight,
e.g. the ability to see clearly at a great distance or to see smaller type
in greater detail than most, there might exist persons with a greater
range of sight, i.e. with eyes responsive to a greater range of wave-
lengths than the normal, such as are commonly known as infra-red
or super-mauve (?) rays. In the same way, I imagined that photo-
graphic plates can record stars radiating light within the normal scale
but yet undiscernible by the human eye and also, if behind quartz
lenses, reproduce rays above the ordinary scale. It is the latter
kind of sight, if it existed, that might explain the supposed ability
of clairvoyants to discern spirit forms, not visible to the ordinary
eye, if, that is, such ability is to be explained by an extension of the
ordinary range of sight, and the forms seen are objective and not
hallucinations. Do I understand Lord Rayleigh to mean that he
has never found any such extended powers of sight? If it is possible
to test sight in this way, it would be interesting to test the sight of
a medium like Mrs Helen Hughes. The question whether their
visions were objective or merely hallucinations, whether veridical
or not, might thus perhaps be settled and a very interesting point
often debated finally decided.
Yours, etc.,
B. Abdy Collins
(The photographic plate records invisibly faint stars as the result
of prolonged exposure. Tests by specialists might decide the
question whether mediums for clairvoyance and clairaudience are
gifted with any remarkable extension of normal sight and hearing,
if believers in the objective character of these phenomena would
be prepared to accept the specialists' verdict. Ed.)
REVIEWS
Exploring the TJltra-Perceptive Faculty. By J. Hettinger, Ph.D.
Rider. Pp. xii+172, with 151 Illustrations. 12s. 6d. net.
This book cannot be intelligently considered except as a sequel to
its predecessor, The Ultra-Perceptive Faculty, reviewed in the
Journal for May-June, 1940 ; and even then it is extremely difficult
to assess it at all fairly.
June-July 1941 Reviews 85
In his first book Dr Hettinger described no fewer than 623 experi-
ments with two different " psychometrists ", yielding 6631 items
(i.e., distinguishable statements) for analysis. These were sub-
mitted to various forms of statistical or quasi-statistical treatment
and led to the conclusion—rightly, I think—that the number of
statements which proved relevant to the subjects (owners of the
objects psychometrised) could not plausibly be attributed to chance,
rational inference, or other normal explanation. So far, so good.
Dr Hettinger then had the really brilliant idea of causing his
subjects to read suitable periodicals, notably illustrated papers, at
the same time that the psychometrist was describing her impressions,
in the hope that she might pick up, so to say, the contemporary
mental content induced by the illustrations, etc. The two proced-
ures were synchronised, and suitable notes were made at approxi-
mately one-minute intervals by subject and experimenter so that
the picture, etc., being looked at when the psychometrist made any
particular statement could be identified. A large number of " hits
"
—585 are claimed out of a total of 3513 items—was obtained in this
way, and the present volume is mainly devoted to presenting a
selection of these together with reproductions of the actual illus-
trations concerned. If these can be taken at anything like their face
value, as I should think is probable, there can be no doubt that this
happy inspiration has resulted in one of the most important contri-
butions to experimental method that has yet been devised.
Unfortunately however, Dr Hettinger has virtually abandoned, in
this work, all attempt at quantitative assessment or statistical con-
trol. The book accordingly presents the evidence at a level on which
the appeal to the reader is essentially of the form " Surely we cannot
attribute such remarkable hits as these to mere coincidence " rather
than " The probability of such hits being due to chance coincidence
is no more than one in so many ". For very many people this kind
of appeal is more persuasive than any statistical treatment, and as
such it will doubtless be good propaganda, in the same sort of way
that Mr Upton Sinclair's Mental Radio was good propaganda ; but
scientifically speaking it represents a retrogression from his earlier
work.
Against this, Dr Hettinger will doubtless protest (as indeed he
does in the text) that having once established the reality of the
phenomena to a high degree of probability it would be waste of time
to do it all again. I sympathise : but the phenomena he established
in his first book are not identically similar—though doubtless closely
akin—to those he presents here ; so that when, for example, he
invites us to consider the type of relation (distortion, etc.) between
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June-July 1941
an illustration and the synchronous statement, we can form no idea
at all of how likely it is that the hit concerned is paranormal as
opposed to chance-determined. The hits of the previous work were
all personal to the subjects, and 322 of this type were found in these
experiments ;
strictly, the argument from the earlier work applies
to these alone, and can only be extended by analogy to the " picture-
hits " with which the second book is concerned—and even so not
quantitatively.
In view of the immense amount of work that Dr Hettinger has
evidently expended on the subject, it seems a thousand pities that he
did not arrange for each set ofimpressions to be scored by an indepen-
dent and uninformed judge against the issue of the periodical actually
used and one immediately preceding or following it. The chance of
the " right " issue being marked higher than the " wrong " would, of
course, be one half in each case, and if a significant result had been
found (as I have little doubt that it would) we should have had a
firm basis for supposing that in this picture work also we were dealing
with a real effect ;
though, of course, even this could never tell us
that any particular hit was genuine. Dr Hettinger, on the other
hand, seems content to assume that, because the earlier work showed
a significantly high proportion of successful hits, therefore every
apparent success in these experiments is paranormal—and this is a
manifest non sequitur.
Moreover, if scoring had been done on these lines, we could have
gone on to classify the various types of apparent distortion, etc.,
and we might perhaps have found that certain types occurred
significantly more often among the " right " judgements than among
the " wrong " ; if so, we should have made a real advance, which I
see no other way of making at present, towards a fuller under-
standing of the psychological processes involved.
Is it even now too late to do something on these lines, by obtaining
the necessary back numbers of periodicals and enlisting the services
of judges who have not yet seen any of Dr Hettinger's illustrations?
If so, it would enormously enhance the value of an already important
piece of work.
I trust that nothing I have said above will be taken as an undue
denigration of Dr Hettinger's great and notable efforts. These two
books place him quite definitely among the select few whose work
must be taken seriously ; but the need for quantitative results,
such as cannot be brushed aside by lazy sceptics as " mere coinci-
dence " is so great, and the methods of obtaining them so few, that
a return to exact methods of assessment is greatly to be desired.
w. w. c.
June-July 1941 Reviews 87
Nothing Dies. By J. W. Dunne. Faber. 3s. 6d. net.
In this small book Mr Dunne sets out his theory of existence in
time, or at least indicates the nature of the theory, for readers who
are unversed in science and mathematics. He appeals, therefore,
to our experience as observers of events, and remarks that we cannot
observe them wholly from the outside. Our external world is bound
up with our internal world of cognition. Here phenomena depend,
for us, upon the direction of our attentive focus. Here, also, we
seism to be aware of a series of " selves " : I can focus my attention
narrowly upon an exterior event or, more widely, upon that event
with myself in relation to it—thus bringing it more into relation
with my total experience in time. The observing " I " and the
observed " myself " seem distinct. And as soon as I direct my
attention to their relationship, another less time-bound " I " seems
to have sprung into being : the " I " which can overlook my self
which is observing myself. And so on, in an endless sequence of a
type known as an infinite regress. Many thinkers find it most
convenient to dismiss this kind of sequence as a blind alley of
thought, a phenomenon of mental action which can have no signifi-
cance. Mr Dimne maintains that the phenomenon throws light
upon the nature of being, and bases upon it his doctrine of Serialism.
The great interest of this theory for psychical research is the way
in which it presents personality as an open system—indeed an
illimitable system. To quote two corollaries :
" The description of
mind made by any science of yours must be, always, an inadequate
description of the mind that can make that science." " We have
always more knowledge than we suspect ourselves of possessing."
This follows if our personality comprises, as Mr Dunne puts it, a
series of knowers each of which is aware of an inferior knower and
is known by a superior knower. (" Thus ", he adds, " the ultimate
knower can never be discovered "—" never ", we must presume,
within time as we at present understand it.)
Mr Dunne does not seem yet to have dealt with a pitfall for thought
which is involved in an infinite regress. He himself takes the fact,
" every child had a father ", leading to the proposition, " every
father had a father ", as an example of a regress ;
not, presumably,
of an infinite regress, since as we take the series back towards the
beginning of life on the planet we find that it tails off into nothing.
At an early enough stage in evolution the terms " child " and
" father " dwindle in meaning, and their meaning finally dis-
appears. In this case we know enough to be able to observe that the
regress is not infinite. The question is whether we ever know enough
to assert that a regress in concrete terms is infinite. In any case,
88 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June-July 1941
it seems impossible to know what is happening to the meaning of
our terms as we string them out into an infinite series. Mr Dunne,
indeed, says that " the regress denies you further knowledge ", but
adds that " it will give you nothing but the same answer as before,
cast in a more complex form ". An unresolved paradox seems to
be that Serialism claims " further knowledge " on the basis of a
repetitive series which denies it.
But if Mr Dunne does reason about his series of numerically
different " selves " or " knowers " beyond the limits within which
we can attach any secure meaning to these terms, it would be futile
to reject the significance of his reasoning so far as we do know what
he is talking about. At the observable end of the series the meaning
of " self " appears to expand rather than diminish. We may think
of it as expanding, at the wiobservable end, into the transcendent,
instead of dwindling (like the meaning of " child " and " father ")
to a vanishing-point. So far as we can observe the expansion, we
can follow the inference that it points to something illimitable in the
nature of personality.
This brief and relatively simple book should meet the require-
ments of many who cannot see the wood for the trees in Mr Dunne's
more extended and technical arguments. K. R.
The Truth about Spiritualism,. By The Master of the Temple.
Student Christian Movement. 2s. net.
In his foreword Harold Anson writes that he wants " to impress
upon professing Christians the importance of not pouring scorn upon
evidences and experiences which are in great part similar to those
upon which the events which formed the foundation of the primitive
gospel rest ", and he then in a succinct way runs through the various
evidences for psychical occurrences, emphasising specially those
—
such as levitations, materialisations, appearances of the dead, clair-
audience, clairvoyance—which are paralleled in gospel narratives.
There is of course nothing new in this to students of psychical re-
search, but the fact that a prominent churchman should pronounce
on the value to the Christian religion of research into the strange
supernormal faculties of man, and the evidence they supply for some
of the supernatural elements in the gospel story,—this is of great
importance and value. Although the Master of the Temple con-
siders the resurrection of Jesus the vital indispensable foundation of
the whole faith, he frankly confesses that he does not think the
evidence for it comes up to scientific standards. His argument is
rather that many occurrences for which there is strong testimony,
JtJNE-JlTLY 1941 Reviews
point not only to the possibility of appearances after death, but to
the reality of a life beyond, and different from, the one in which we
are immersed.
The two chapters, one called " Immortality as understood by
Spiritualists ", and " The Christian Doctrine of Immortality ",
with which last the book ends, are impressive summaries of what
beliefs the results of psychical research of the last fifty years may
sanction and stimulate, and of the Christian's modern interpretation
of immortality.
After quoting the opinion of the Dean of St. Paul's, Dr Walter
Mathews, that " there is a residuum of estabhshed facts which prima
facie suggest the hypothesis of survival " ; Mr Anson concludes :
" I
should myself go somewhat further, and say that the facts make
survival an assured truth, but that it is a survival of something
deeper and more fundamental than the personality with which we
are ordinarily familiar in the commerce of terrestrial life." It will
be understood from this short review, that the book is not intended
to be a contribution to psychical research, as such, but as a rational
explanation of its value to religion of all kinds, and the author con-
tends, pre-eminently to the Christian religion.
Those who are constantly asked to recommend books which may
give a rational account of the evidence for survival, and at the same
time induce faith in what is called revealed religion will be grateful
to the Master of the Temple for this temperate and impartial study
and its final conclusion. " The Christian Faith does not teach an
immortality which consists of a gradual absorption into God, involv-
ing a loss of individual being." E. L.
Witchcraft. By Charles Williams. Faber. 12s. 6d. net.
This book does not deal with witchcraft in relation to any para-
normal faculties that may have been involved in its manifestations,
but is of considerable interest as an able historical study, backed by
careful and intelligent research ; and the writing has the real vitality
that springs from a disciplined imagination trained to a sensitive
expressiveness. It is even more a study of the insensate cruelty let
loose in witch-hunting than of witchcraft itself. The whole picture
illustrates through the centuries the horrible tangle of superstition,
cruelty and fear out of which such things as mediumship have only
recently extricated themselves. Witchcraft and the suspicion of it
arose in close association with the psychically " sensitive " type,
though the general evidence, and the impression conveyed by Mr
Williams's study, suggest that psychical phenomena had little part
Journal of Society for Psychical Research June-July 1941
in manifestations that were chiefly of power-craving in a disordered
jumble with hatreds and illicit passions. They could and did, how-
ever, bolster up the claim to occult powers, as in the episode retold
in Mr Williams's admirable sketch of James I's mentality in its
contact with the problem—the " witch " Agnes Sampson, under
threat of the law, declining to benefit by the royal scepticism, and
putting forward in proof of her magic quality what may have been
a telepathic impression of the king's private conversation with his
bride. The king swore " that all the Devils in Hell could not have
discovered the same ", but must still have felt dubious about Agnes's
story of two hundred witches who went to sea in sieves, drinking
wine as they floated. K. R.
Psychic Science, Vol. XX, No. 1, April 1941.
We are glad to receive the first issue of " Psychic Science " under
the editorship of our member, Mr Abdy Collins, to whom we wish
all success in his new duties. Among other matters of interest will
be found a declaration of policy by the International Institute for
Psychic Investigation, of which " Psychic Science " is the quarterly
Journal. The Council of that body declare that it appears to them
that through the researches that have been conducted and the
evidence which has been carefully accumulated and sifted over this
period by the Society for Psychical Research, other societies and
institutions and independent workers in this and other countries, the
existence of certain phenomena, which no one of any standing
would have claimed to be substantiated in 1882 (the year when
our Society was founded), has now been clearly established and
publicly recognised by persons of eminence in the world of Science
and Philosophy.
After naming some of these phenomena, the Council of the Insti-
tute proceeds : "In the light of all these facts, the Council feels that
the adoption of a purely negative attitude towards the question of
survival is no longer warranted. . . . All members, whether they
consider survival proved or not, must agree that there is much to
investigate with an open mind before we can hope to understand
what we now call supernormal phenomena."
This declaration is followed by a programme of psychical research
by Mr Abdy Collins, in the course of which he refers several times
to the paper which he read to the S.P.R. in April, 1940, and states
the case against an approach to the question of survival on too narrow
a front. Of the specific lines of investigation perhaps the most
interesting is a more extensive study of death-bed scenes. Mr
Collins, who attaches great importance to the evidence of death-bed
June-July 1941 Reviews 01
phenomena, suggests that a census of them should be taken with the
assistance of a broadcast appeal, that an enquiry among peoples
and tribes throughout the world should be made and that photo-
graphs should be taken at death-beds as a matter of routine at some
of our hospitals, with a view to possibly obtaining photographs of
the departure of the soul similar to those claimed by Dr Baraduc
to have been obtained by him.
In his programme Mr Collins speaks of " Investigations on present
lines " into materialisation, direct voice, direct and authentic
writing. This raises the question what " present lines " Mr Collins
means, since it is unfortunately the case that the standards of experi-
ment and observation upheld by the Society have not always been
followed by other enquirers. It is to be hoped that under Mr
Collins's guidance the International Institute for Psychic Investi-
gation will endeavour to uphold a high standard of evidence in these
matters. W. H. S.
The Journal of Parapsychology. Vol. 5, No. 1, March 1941.
This issue of the Journal of Parapsychology contains only one
major article, viz. a report, " Experiments bearing upon the Pre-
cognition Hypothesis. Ill : Mechanically Selected Cards ", by Dr J.
B. Rhine. Earlier experiments with hand-shuffled cards had given
significant results, but the hypothesis of precognitive E. S. P. had,
in such cases, to compete with that of the " E. S. P. Shuffle. "
; that
is to say, that the order of the cards in the shuffle, which, of course,
takes place after the call has been made by the subject, is in some
way and to some extent determined by awareness of the record of the
calls. In order to exclude this possibility Dr Rhine devised experi-
ments wherein the shuffling was mechanically performed. Two short
introductory series were carried out and these both gave a negative
deviation, indicating the possible existence of a score-depressant
factor. The main series consisted of two divisions, in one of which
the subjects were Adults, in the other Children. The procedure was
further differentiated by offering rewards for success in some runs
and comparing the results with those of other runs for which no
reward was offered. Matching technique was used throughout, that
is to say, the subject laid out the cards, face-downwards, against an
empty set of positions in which target cards were subsequently
placed after mechanical shuffling : 1108 runs were done in the Adult
group and 500 by the Children. The first yielded a total negative
deviation of 239, average - -216, this gives a Critical Ratio of 3-59
based on theoretical standard deviation and 344 based on empirical,
92 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June-July 1941
both of which are significant. The Chi-square of the fit to a binomial
distribution gives a probability of -G0035. For the Children the total
deviation was positive = 123, average -246, C. R. 2-75 theoretical and
2-63 empirical. Chi-square evaluation gives a probability of -012,
all of which are significant except the last which slightly exceeds the
criterion.
The negative deviation for the Adults was as had been expected.
The comparison between Reward and No-Reward was suggestive but
inconclusive.
The paper contains a discussion of various counter-hypotheses,
also of the causation and implication of negative deviations. In an
Appendix Dr Rhine gives a brief summary of all known precognition
experiments up to June 1939 and in a table shows the combined
residts.
I was pleased to see that the feature introduced in the previous
issue, of giving extracts from the comments of the Board of Review
has again been included. The criticism, all of it very frank and some
of it severe, constitutes a most valuable aid to the reader in forming
his opinion. This is followed by a letter from Dr Rhine and some
remarks on the criticism.
The only other article in this number is a collection of quotations
from a wide selection of writers, dating back to the very early days
of psychical research, bearing on the conditions affecting E. S. P.
Performance. On some points there is marked consensus, on others
divergence of view. For those who are disposed to attach value to
arguments " ad authoritatem " this synopsis has considerable value,
while even for those to whom such arguments do not appeal, it had
its use as giving in convenient form a condensed idea of what a
number of writers have thought.
H. F. S.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only ". The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 578.—Vol. XXXII October, 1941
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, 15 October, 194.1, at 3.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"RECENT SITTINGS WITH A MEDIUM
AT CAMBRIDGE"
WILL BE READ BY
Mr W. H. SALTER
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members and
Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
E
91 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Octobek 1941
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 24 July 1941)
Campbell, Lady, Woodrow High House, Arnersham, Bucks.
Hayward, Mrs, c/o Dr W. J. Johnson, Great Witley, Worcester.
Hope, Dr Olive, St Anne's Well, Andover, Hants.
Joliannesson, Yngvi, Reykjavik, Iceland.
Schofield, Mrs, 16 Chaucer Road, Cambridge.
{Elected 25 September 1941)
Howell Smith, S. G., West Bank, West End, Esher, Surrey.
Pedelty, Miss D„ 221 Longfellow Road, Worcester Park, Surrey.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 382nd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Thursday, 25 September 1941, at 3 p.m., The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Professor C. D.
Broad, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton,
G.B.E., Miss Isabel Newton, Mr W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal and Mr
G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
The Report of the Annual General Meeting (as printed in the
Journal for March 1941) was presented and taken as read.
Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
The following co-opted Members of Council were co-opted for the
year 1941-1942 : Sir Robert Gower, Mr Gerald Heard, Miss Isabel
Newton, Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell and Miss Nea Walker.
Professor W. Macneile Dixon and Mr Geoffrey Redmayne were
co-opted Members of Council.
OBITUARY NOTICE
Elwood Worcester
The work of Dr Elwood Worcester, Founder of the Boston S.P.R.
and a Corresponding Member of our Society, is not as well known
in this country as it deserves. For the information regard-
ing his career given below we are indebted to the address delivered
to the Boston Society by Mr Addington Bruce, and printed in the
summer issue of the Journal of the American S.P.R.
October 1941 Obituary Notice 95
In his early years Elwood Worcester enjoyed the advantages of
a happy home, where his education made such progress that at
thirteen he was able to matriculate into Kochester University. But
owing to his father's financial reverses and death, he had to abandon
for the thne being all thoughts of the university and to help in
supporting the family by taking work in the freight office of a
railway company. There one day, eating his lunch out of a tin pail
in gloomy mood and gloomy surroundings, he saw the yellow wall
opposite him suddenly become bright, though there was no sun-
shine. The wall grew brighter, and he heard a voice say distinctly,
Be faithful to me and I will be faithful to you."
This experience made so great an impression on Worcester that
he started at once on a course of self-education, rising every morning
at five and devoting to his studies every moment not occupied by
his work for the railway. After a year the family fortunes improved
sufficiently to enable him to go to Columbia University. He worked
his way through this, and through the General Theological Seminary
in New York, and then took a post-graduate course in psychology
and philosophy under Wundt and Fechner at Leipzig. There he
gained a knowledge not only of psychology but of general scientific
method. On returning to America he took over the dual post of
chaplain and professor of psychology and philosophy at Lehigh
University, where he made a special study of medical psychology.
Six years later he was called to St Stephen's Church in Phila-
delphia, where one of his parishioners was the nerve specialist, Weir
Mitchell. In one of their many conversations Mitchell said to him,
" Rector, if you and I should get together and establish a work for
the sick, basing it on sound religion and sound science, we could
put Dr —:
— (mentioning a person he detested) out of business.'
Their friendship was a preparation for, and a stimulus to, the healing
work Worcester started at his next church, Emmanuel Church.
Boston, which gave its name to what came to be known as the
Emmanuel Movement.
He thus became, in Mr Bruce's words, " a pioneer in social
endeavour of a sort to which the Protestant Episcopal Church had
to learn to become accustomed ". The work met with criticism in
various quarters, to which Worcester replied in his book, Body,
Mind and Spirit. Through it he first became keenly interested in
psychical research, and formed a close friendship with James Hyslop.
After Dr Hyslop's death ", says Mr Bruce, " some members felt
that the American S.P.R. had begun to diverge from the type of
scientific research which it had carried on under his direction and
inspiration. Dr Worcester, always a scientist as well as a clergyman
96 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1941
and scholar, was moved to establish an independent psychical
research society in Boston. He was fortunate in being able to secure
at the outset the assistance of Dr Walter Franklin Prince, for some
time Dr Hyslop's assistant in research." The value of Dr Prince's
work is too well known to our members to need further elabora-
tion. The two societies are now happily reunited under the Presi-
dency of Dr George Hyslop.
Dr Worcester also had remarkable powers of physical endurance,
which found an outlet in fishing and big game hunting. Mr Bruce
mentions as his outstanding characteristics, " his selflessness, his
love of truth, and his eagerness to help others and to promote
religious faith among the masses of men by demonstrating the
practical helpfulness of religion."
EXPERIMENTS IN TELEPATHY, JUNE-JULY 1941
[Report contributed by Mr Donald West, a Member of the Society, ivhose
father, Mr J. C. West, acted as percipient in the experiments.]
Abstract.
The percipient was, in all cases, asked to guess which of five
articles, all known to him, was being " concentrated upon ". 2000
trials were carried out, using a variety of materials. The results
showed a fairly steady increase in the percipient's telepathic
faculty as the experiments proceeded. The success varied con-
siderably with the type of material used. When the percipient was
asked to guess more slowly he had no success whatever.
The Types of Material used were :
(a) The numbers 1-5. (375 trials.)
(b) The five symbols, circle, triangle, cross, etc., as on Zener
cards. (375 trials.)
(c) Coloured discs, red, white, blue, pink and green. (375 trials.)
(d) 1st set of five drawings. (125 trials.)
2nd set of five drawings. (300 trials.)
3rd set of five drawings. (300 trials.)
(e) Five tastes, alum, salt, soap, sugar and pepper. (50 trials.)
(/) The Zener type guessed slowly. (100 trials.)
The number of trials allotted to each type was not designed to
give greater prominence to those types in which the percipient
happened to have more success, quite the reverse, if anything.
Technique.
In all the experiments the percipient was separated from the
material to be discerned by a wardrobe. The screening device was
October 1941 Experiments in Telepathy, June-July 1941 97
thus perfect. The numbers used were contained on a small pack
of 25 cards, which were run through continuously and then re-
shuffled, the percipient endeavouring to guess the top card. The
Zener figures were inked by myself on five identical pieces of card-
board, which were placed face downwards. One would be turned
over and the percipient asked to guess which it was. When the
same card was repeated it was always turned over and back again,
in order not to give the fact away to the percipient. Exactly the
same procedure was used in the case of the pictorial types, the
drawings being inked on identical slips of paper. In the case of
the coloured discs they were placed in a row on a piece of cloth.
They were the ordinary smooth " tiddly-wink " counters, and one
would be silently slid away and placed on its own, the percipient
being asked to guess which one it was. In the case of the tastes,
the substances were all powdered and placed in five approximately
equal piles. The finger would be moistened and the top of the
appropriate pile, and then the tip of the tongue touched, the per-
cipient being asked to guess simultaneously. In all cases the relative
position of the five objects was carefully concealed from the per-
cipient, and, moreover, the screening arrangements would not have
allowed the percipient to see the movements of my arms, or indeed
any part of my body, so that even if he had known the relative
positions of the objects it would not have helped him.
Except in the case of the trials in which the percipient was
specially asked to guess slowly, his attempt came only a second or
so after my saying " guess ".
Each article was given a number from 1 to 5, and an arbitrary
series of these numbers was obtained by the use of four dice and
several packs of cards. This series was carefully concealed
from the percipient. At each of the experiments the cards would
be turned over, the discs slid or the substances tasted in the order
prescribed by this series. The percipient's guesses were recorded
by writing down the number of his guess underneath the number
of the article used. 1
The supposition that my father would try to cheat me in this
matter is, of course, quite absurd. I dare say that if he had his
choice he would have a bad or negative result, rather than a good
one, so that he might not be troubled again in the future.
The degree of success was measured by the ratio Dja, where D
is the deviation of the actual number of successes from the most
probable number, and a is the standard error, as given by the
formula, JN {1-p) p, where N= number of trials and p is the
1
Full lists of the results as obtained have been communicated to the Society.
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1941
probability of success in any one trial. The results for the various
types of material were as follows :
Statistics.
Zener type (o 1 o trials )
JJja — l'iO
Numbers (375 trials) - Dja = -•775
Coloured discs (375 trials) - Dja = 245
Pi nj- OTl 5\ 1 fvnPd (725 triaki - Bio— 1 -85
which include :
1st type (125 trials) - Dja = 246
2nd type (300 trials) - Dja = -444
3rd type (300 trials) - Dja = 144
Tastes (50 trials) - Dja = 3-89
Zener guessed slowly (100 trials) - Dja = -•500
Total (2000 trials) - Dja = 2-85
In order to determine how the percipient's faculty varied with
practice, the following table was compiled and a graph 1
drawn from
it
:
Date of
Expt.
No. of
trials
on that
date
D
on that
date
Dja
on that
date
Total
No. of
trials
by that
date
Total
Dhy
that
date
D/per
100 trials
by that
date
Dja for
total
No.
trials
11th June 75 -1 -•289 75 -1 -•289
12th June 100 1 •250 175 0 0 •000
14th June 125 - 1 -•222 300 -
1
-•333 -444
19th June 125 7 1-57 425 6 141 •728
22nd June 100 - 2 -•500 525 4 •762 •436
22nd June 175 14 •756 700 8 144 •756
24th June 175 4 •756 875 12 1-37 1-01
27th June 175 7 1-32 1050 19 1-81 147
29th June 75 -6 -1-73 1125 13 146 •969
30th June 225 6 1-00 1350 19 141 1-29
2nd July 25 5 2-500 1375 24 1-75 1-62
3rd July 101 10 249 1476 34 2-31 2-21
8th July 149 7 143 1624 41 2-52 2-54
15th July 225 13 247 1850 54 2-92 344
16th July 150 -3 -•612 2000 51 2-55 2-85
1 This gives a curve which, though much smoothed, suggests improvement
in performance towards an upward limit.
October 1941 Telepathy in Macbeth ? 99
Some
' ;
retrocognitive " success was observed in places, the per-
cipient guessing the previous object instead of the one in present
use. In some cases it appeared that the percipient was having con-
siderable retrocognitive success, but no normal success. Detailed
examination showed that this effect was not general. As a whole the
retrocognitive success was less than would be expected from chance
coincidence. In those series in which the normal deviation was
negative, the retrocognitive deviation was, as a rule, negative also,
but not so much so. Dja for all the series in which the percipient
had a negative deviation was -:^L= -3-23. D/a for the retro-
•W575
_ 94
cognitive success in these series was _- = - -991 .
No significant
b 4vo62
deviation was obtained in precognitive successes.
In addition to the experiments with my father as percipient, 50
trials with the Zener type diagrams were tried out on two occasions
(100 trials in all) with my previous percipient, N. J. E. Ellis. The
conditions were exceedingly stringent. The experiments were carried
out with the percipient and myself alone in my study. His wrists
were fastened to the arms of his chair with gummed paper, and his
head, leaning back on the afore-mentioned wardrobe, was held in
position with gummed paper round his neck. The cards, moreover,
were placed well inside a cupboard.
The results obtained confirmed my previous observations with
this percipient, when I found that he had quite a remarkable tran-
sitory brilliance on certain days, but on others his " power " would
be only feeble. On the first occasion (24th June) he guessed correctly
21 out of the 50 cards, giving a deviation of nearly -i times the
standard error. On the second occasion (2nd July) he guessed cor-
rectly only 10, giving no deviation at all. The total deviation for
the 100 trials was thus only 2§ times the standard error. In any
case the number of trials with this percipient are at present too few
to warrant any definite conclusion.
TELEPATHY IN MACBETH?
By Hans Ehrenwald, M.D.
First Witch : All hail, Macbeth! hail to thee, Thane of Glamis!
Second Witch : All hail, Macbeth, hail to thee, Thane of Candor!
Third Witch : All hail, Macbeth, that shalt be king hereafter!
The works of Shakespeare have always been considered more than
deliberate inventions of a playwright, however great his genius.
100 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1941
They have been felt as living creations of nature, as
Fictions in form, but in their substance truths.
This is why his characters are familiar to us as living persons, why
they have been subjected, to laborious character-study by genera-
tions of scholars from many points of view. Psycho-analysts, more
recently, have contributed the deep psychological analysis of such
characters as Hamlet, Richard III and Portia, and it is from this
point of view—in conjunction with that of psychical research—that
a few remarks may be made on the subject of the Weird Sisters in
" Macbeth " and their prophecy.
Macbeth, when hailed by the witches as Thane of Glands, Thane
of Cawdor, and as " king hereafter ", is deeply impressed. He first
rejects the idea, but only to be entangled in the fight between the
conflicting forces of his nature that entice him to
yield to the suggestion
Whose horrid image doth unfix my hair
And make my seated heart knock at my ribs.
Shakespeare's critics are wont to regard the figures of the three
witches and their prophecy as " one of the incitements to the deed
contributing to its plausibility ".1
Taken at their face value there
is in fact good reason to accept them as characters fully in keeping
with the credulity and superstitions of Shakespeare's time—
a
credulity on which he counted so completely for dramatic purpose
or effect that it is often uncertain whether he did not himself share
in it to some extent. In addition it may be recalled that the theme
of a prophecy and its inescapable implications can plainly be traced
to the tradition of the ancient classical tragedy with its irretrievably
predetermined outcome.
From the point of view of modern deep psychology, however, all
these supernatural forces, the innumerable spiritual beings in which
man in the magic and animistic stage believed, the spirits and
demons of ancient mythology, as well as the devils, witches, were-
wolves and nightmares that vexed the imagination of mankind from
the Dark Ages up to our times, are merely expressions of man's
own repressed unruly desires, or unconscious aggressive tendencies.
This is, at least, the. explanation that has been suggested by Freud
and his followers, and although its relevance to the field of anthro-
pology and archeology has remained controversial, there is little
doubt that it represents an ingenious attempt to understand the
products of primitive mentality, of magic and animism—of what
1
Peter Alexander : Shakespeare's Art and Life, London, 1939.
October 1941 Telepathy in Macbeth ? 101
has been called the social paranoia of primitive man—along the
same lines as the delusions of the insane, the persecution ideas of
paranoics and the nightmares of our dream life.
In the view of psycho-analysis all these manifestations are subject
to the principle of projection. Primitive man, the insane, the
dreamer, invest products of their phantasy with wishes and desires
of their own and project their vivid personifications into the outer
world. Their frightening appearance, their malignant character, are
but expressions of their creators' condemnation of what they them-
selves cannot by any means admit to be flesh and blood of their
own. Viewed from this angle the weird sisters with their sinister
prophecy are but mouthpieces of Macbeth's own ambitious desires,
that is, of his desire to become in fact Thane of Glamis, Thane of
Cawdor, and subsequently—even at the cost of the fatherly king
Duncan's assassination—Duncan's successor. The weird sisters"
prophecy was, in this way, not so much a revelation of future events
as an expression of Macbeth's own designs, though still looming,
unformulated and unperceived, in the back of his mind.
Yet this interpretation, suggested by psycho-analysis (and I am
not at present able to ascertain whether it has already been put
forward), though credible from the psychological point of view,
represents neither the whole nor yet the only truth. Much has been
said in favour of the " genuineness " of phenomena that have been
attributed to supernatural beings in bygone times. Yet there are
two significant instances of alleged prophecy—not by the " weird
sisters " of the dramatist, but by professional fortune-tellers of a
more enlightened age—which lend themselves to an instructive
comparison with our case and which have been reported by no less
an authority than Sigmund Freud himself. It was by these two
observations that he was led seriously to consider the possibility of
telepathy.
I have referred elsewhere 1
to that little known concession of
Freud to the case of psychical research. In both instances he
tells the story of a neurotic patient consulting a fortune-teller who,
though not actually " predicting " the future of his client, still
happened unexpectedly to hit on most intimate details of the
patient's secret life, partly unrecognised by himself, yet all the
more charged with repressed emotional significance. In one of the
cases the fortune-teller's " prediction " actually referred to repressed
death wishes against his client's brother-in-law, the revelation of
which, had it been bluntly disclosed to the patient, might well have
made his " seated heart knock at his ribs ".
1
Proc, S.P.R. XLVI, November 1940.
102 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1941
I have pointed out that the importance of these instances for the
better understanding of the origin of telepathic phenomena lies in
that they clearly indicate the role of repressed, unconscious ten-
dencies in the mind of the potential agent. The fortune-teller in
Freud's cases was nothing more than a percipient of the contents,
highly charged with emotion, of the mind. The way in which the
" message " received by the fortune-teller finds its formulation is
a matter of his individual interpretation. Its mis-interpretation as
a prophetic revelation is of course to be expected, and falls fully
into fine with traditional superstitious beliefs.
The psychological situation in Macbeth—in spite of all the dif-
ferences of the external conditions—is much the same as in Freud 's
cases. Here too we have the case of a man who believes that he is
questioning persons possessed of supernormal knowledge of his fate.
What he is told is dressed up in the garment of prophecy. But its
real meaning is a reflexion, as it were, of his own secret hopes and
ambitions, of his own unformulated sinister designs. They appear
alien, as yet, to his conscious plan of life, but once expressed by
another person, they gain unexpected power over his mind, and the
way in which they eventually drive him to the deed is the main
feature of Macbeth's tragedy.
This interpretation suggests that Shakespeare in the scene of the
blasted heath unwittingly describes a classical instance of telepathy,
such as had occurred in innumerable instances in legend and history
and such as happens over and over again in various disguises. The
telepathic reading of the scene is thus precisely the reverse of its
interpretation along the lines of Freud's projection theory, although
we have just seen how well its rival interpretation is in keeping with
facts revealed by the founder of the projection theory himself.
I have dealt with these apparently conflicting alternatives else-
where 1
and have shown that the psychologist, once prepared to
admit the possibility of telepathic occurrences, is liable to encounter
the same dilemma in such divergent instances as the deep psycho-
logical appreciation of the mental phenomena of mediumistic trance,
paranoic delusions, etc. Of course, in the case of Macbeth's ex-
perience with the weird sisters, neither of the two conflicting inter-
pretations can be put to the test. The problem will have to be
tackled by means of more directly accessible evidence drawn, as far
as possible, from first-hand observation of life. But whether any
psychologist, with all his equipment of scientific experience, will
ever be able to perceive the manifestations of the human soul with
Shakespeare's intuitive insight and exactitude of observation and
description, is another matter.
1 " Telepathy, its Origin and Obsolescence " (monograph in preparation).
October 1941 Correspondence 103
CORRESPONDENCE
HYPERAESTHESIA
To the Editor of The Journal
Sir,—In reply to the letter of Mr Abdy Collins in the Journal for
June-July 1941, p. 84, my investigation, given in S.P.R. Proc,
Vol. XLV, p. 19, referred only to the power of distinguishing the
presence or absence of a patch of very faint light, and not to the
quite different question of the power of distinguishing detail.
According to optical theory this last is definitely limited by the
aperture of the pupil of the eye, say J inch, and normal eyes come
close to the limit of what is possible. It would not therefore seem
to be a promising line of investigation to see if mediums could do
better.
As regards the possibility that some gifted persons might be able
to see into the ultraviolet region of the spectrum, there are probably
some small differences in this respect, but, for dark adapted vision,
the properties of the eye depend upon the pigment called the visual
purple, found in all vertebrate animals, which can be extracted from
the retina of the eyes of animals kept in the dark before killing.
The maximum sensitiveness of the visual purple to bleaching is in
the green region of the spectrum, and the maximum sensitivity of
the eye agrees closely with it, so the overwhelming probability is
that all eyes are similar. For other reasons, which it would take me
too far to explain, I do not think it is likely that any persons can
see appreciably further into the ultraviolet than the normal man can
do, even when the eye is not dark-adapted.
I am, yours faithfully,
Rayleigh
REVIEWS
I am Persuaded. By Julian Duguid. Cape. 12s. 6d. net.
Mr Duguid's book describes the movement of an active and
adventurous mind through agnosticism to an individual basis of
faith, a journey in which he passes through the territory of psychical
research and takes note of the evidence that strikes him as cogent.
His range of discussion is wide, and his thought rapid and picturesque,
often penetrating with a keen probe to the inadequacies whether
of stereotyped belief or of complacent disbelief. The book leaves,
perhaps, the impression of many good things said rather than of a
104 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1941
constructive argument established, but Mr Duguid is more con-
cerned to present a coherent story of mental and spiritual experience
than to set out a philosophy.
His approach to psychical research is that of the human creature
aware of psychic needs and of insufficient answers to its questionings,
and is also that of intelligent man stimulated in mind by the recent
advances of science and the problems that they raise. It would be
easy to pick holes in some of his rather hasty and sketchy conceptions
of modern scientific theories and their meaning ; it is more relevant
to note that he represents the genuine enquirer in scientific fields,
unsatisfied by answers that are only repetitions of formulae, and
very much alive to the importance of evidence that upsets a com-
placent formula
—" those things which ought not to occur ", accord-
ing to the rules, and were considered by Herschel to be the main
source of discovery in his own science of astronomy. In this attitude
psychical research is more faithful to scientific principle than are
those scientists who maintain that what ought not to occur cannot
have occurred, and Mr Duguid has turned to the records of our
Society for soundly based evidence of the occurrence of psychical
phenomena.
He is impressed by the Society's " vast reservoirs of knowledge
quite unknown to the man in the street ", and is keenly interested
in the evidence for unexplored attributes of human personality, as
well as in the subject most germane to his thesis, that of evidence
for survival. As to the latter, he notes that " Telepathy is a possible
explanation, but a telepathy so subtle and selective that its proof
would revolutionise our world ". Fully on guard against the snare
of wishful thinking, he observes acutely that this may cut both
ways. The materialistic scientist may desire extinction without
knowing it. " He is unaware that the mechanism of escape is as
powerful in him as in the mystic. Each, in fact, is expressing a dis-
taste for the tedium of his own body : an opinion all secretly share
at some time or another during life."
While speaking with respect of the impressive nature of the more
complex evidence for survival such as that of cross-correspondences,
he selects as a compact instance for citation a good example of the
evidence from proxy sittings, an excerpt from the Bobby Newlove
case. His conclusions in favour of survival, as on the wider questions
of the human soul and of religious beliefs are wisely stated as a matter
of reasoned preference rather than of inescapable logical proof.
" There are facts enough in this world to bolster up any conclusion,
provided one is resolute enough to ignore or deny the opposite."
K. R.
October 1941 Reviews 105
The Journal of the American Societyfor Psychical Research. Summer,
1941. Vol. XXXV, No. 5.
This is the first issue of the Journal since the reconstruction of
the Society and the amalgamation with the Boston S.P.R. It opens
appropriately with a statement by the President, Dr George
H. Hyslop, of the Society's objectives. " The present Board of
Trustees ", he says,
' ;
feels that while the Society must give due
consideration to all types of phenomena, it must avoid
devoting its time and material resources to enquiries which lead
to unnecessary controversy, or which deal with experimental sub-
jects who do not wish to submit to'what may be fairly regarded as
proper test conditions."
In an article on Some Present-Day Trends in Psychical Research
Dr Gardner Murphy and Miss Laura Dale pay a very handsome
tribute to the experimental work of Mr Whately Carington, Mr Soal,
and Dr Hettinger, and give a general survey of work in the United
States, which they classify as " (a) research having to do with the
experimental study of precognition, and (b) research relating to
those psychological dispositions of the individual percipient which
appear to account for his ability to perform successfully at extra-
sensory perception tasks."
Under the title Telepathy or Association? Mrs Allison discusses
three cases in which she suggests that possibly " when a recent
association in the percipient's mind is coupled by chance with part
of a veridical impression . . . the association may aid the emergence
of the impression which might otherwise fail to reach the level of
consciousness." The words " part of " are important, as in each
of the three incidents " association was only the starting point for
further veridical details ".
The first case, reported by Dr McDougall to Dr Walter Prince
shortly before the latter's death, is of particular interest. A French-
man, who had left his native Alsace as a boy owing to the German
occupation, settled in 1888 in the United States and made his home
in Texas. On Sunday evening, 21st December, 1930, when reading
a book, he was seized with a feeling of great sadness, burst into
floods of tears and became almost hysterical. " I looked at the clock
and it was 8 p.m., or probably two or three minutes later." He
remained in this state about ten minutes, and it struck him
that the last time he had been so affected was in the same room in
1924, shortly after he had heard of his mother's death in Prance,
and that once before he had had a similar experience in the same
room on receiving news of the death of his sister's two children,
also in Prance. " I then said to myself, '
I am wondering if my
106 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1941
father at this very moment is not in his last agony.' I looked at
the clock again. It was 8.15," and he made a note of the day and
hour in his memorandum book. About a fortnight later he learnt
from his brother-in-law that his father had died in Alsace on the
22nd December between 2 and 2.10 a.m. Time in Alsace is six
hours ahead of time in Texas, where the percipient was living. The
time correspondence was therefore extremely close.
So stated, the case looks like a veridical phantasm of the death-
coincidence type, but a complication is introduced by the subject
of the passage which the percipient was reading. He had taken up
by chance the novel Death Comes to the Archbishop, which he had
previously read three years before. He had opened the book at
random and was reading of the last days of the Archbishop, when
he feels himself dying. The Archbishop in the story was a French-
man most of whose work had lain in New Mexico and Arizona, which
adjoin Texas. The train of thought which might lead the percipient,
himself a Frenchman self-exiled to America, to think of his French
home and his father, a very old man who still lived there, is obvious,
and memories of bad news from home twice received by him in that
room would re-inforce it. A case could therefore be made out on
those lines for attributing the experience to a combination of
association of ideas and chance coincidence, a view which the per-
cipient was himself inclined to accept. But, as Mrs Allison points
out, he had read the book before, and must then have had similar
mental association without being provoked to extreme emotion.
Clearly a marginal case, and, it may be added, while marginal
cases do not help greatly in demonstrating telepathy, they are of
enormous importance in elucidating it.
The Journal also contains an obituary notice of Dr Elwood
Worcester, to which we refer elsewhere, and a note on some typical
cases treated by him and his associates. Altogether a most interest-
ing number.
W. H. S.
The Journal of Parapsychology. Vol. 3, No. 2, June 1941.
Dr Chas. E. Stuart contributes an article entitled "An Analysis
to determine a Test Predictive of Extra-chance Scoring in card-
calling Tests ". This is an account of an investigation undertaken
to explore the psychological relations of extra-chance card-calling.
The method adopted was to ask the subject to guess the number of
successes scored after the completion of the run. These guesses
were correlated with the immediately preceding score in order to
October 1941 Reviews 107
test the degree to which they were influenced by the subject's know-
ledge of his just previous success or failure. This correlation is
termed the T score. The test was applied to the first ten runs, the
remainder being the card-calling score.
The T scores were then divided into two classes, the mid-range,
from - -20 to + -20, that is to say, those in which the estimates
were negligibly affected by the previous score, forming one class,
the other embracing scores from - 1 to - -201 and from + -201
to +1.
The data for the investigation fell into two series ; in the first,
they were the records of six experiments in pre-shuffle card-calling,
the second those of four experiments in test-shuffle calling. The
conditions of these experiments as regards precautions against
sensory clues etc. were on the whole satisfactory, for the pre-
shuffle calling sensory clues are of course, excluded. The critical
ratios for the ten experiments were low, the highest being only 2-74,
the combined C.R. being only 2-71.
The first result for Series I showed provisionally that the mid-
range class of T scores was associated with extra-chance scoring,
while the other class was statistically not significant. For Series II
the same result was more strikingly shown.
Various refinements and sub-divisions were made which tended to
confirm this provisional result.
The conclusion which Dr Stuart draws from this interesting and
valuable piece of research is that those subjects whose estimates are
unaffected or little affected by their just previous score are more
likely, to a significant degree, to obtain extra-chance results than
are those whose estimates are influenced by immediately preceding
success or failure, and that this may be used as a predictive test. It
is to be hoped that further research along these lines may be under-
taken in order to obtain insight into the psychological conditions
determinant of E. S. P.
The remainder of this issue is devoted to the first of two articles
contributed by Dr J. Hettinger of London on " The Ultra-Perceptive
Faculty ". It is an attempt to give within a limited compass the
main points of his research as reported in his book published under
the same title.
Dr Hettinger employed professional sensitives and concentrated
on so-called " psychometry ", that is to say, articles belonging to the
various subjects were handed to the sensitive who then gave the
impressions which she received. The subject was never present at
the sitting and was, in all cases, unknown to the sensitive, very
often to Dr Hettinger himself.
108 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October 1941
Various control methods were adopted in the first tentative series :
in the 2nd and 3rd cheeking series five different subjects were given
each five records, one being obtained from their own article, the rest
from those provided by the other four subjects. They were asked to
fill in the first column of their own record and one column on each
of the others, the idea being to discover how many of a number of
records would show a superiority for the actual subject as compared
with the four checking subjects. Out of 40 records 29 actual sub-
jects showed superiority and Dr Hettinger works out for this a
critical ratio of 1148. I would point out here that there is some
error, probably typographical, in the figures given for this calcula-
tion on page 150, for one thing on working the standard deviation
the square root sign is omitted ; the discrepancy, however, is small.
In the 4th, 5th and 6th series the method of mixing items was
used. This consists in mixing twelve items given by the sensitive
with an equal number drawn from another source, called the Guess-
box, and asking the subject to indicate which items were applicable
to him. If the items given by the sensitive were chosen with a
higher frequency than those from the Guess-box this would tend to
show some extra-chance factor. The computation of frequency both
of cases and of items yielded significant results.
For the remaining six series further modifications of method were
adopted but in the majority of these cases the level of significance
was not reached.
It is not necessary within the space of a short review to specify
more precisely the nature of these modifications seeing that its sole
purpose is to indicate briefly what the reader of the article may
expect to find and to encourage him, if interested in such matters,
to consult the original.
Summarising the twelve series Dr Hettinger finds that the com-
bined C.K. is 14-6, which is, of course, highly significant, while that
for sensitive K is 8-52 and for sensitive F 12-22. The article con-
cludes with a short account of investigation into the time factor,
that is to say, how far recency or the reverse affects the result. Dr
Hettinger arrives at the conclusion that the recency of the items
perceived is an important factor in Ultra-perception.
H. F. S.
No. 579—Vol. XXXII November-December, 1941
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NEW MEMBER
(Elected 20 October 1941)
Rendall, Mrs F., 15 Highgate West Hill, London, N. 6.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 383rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 15 October 1941, at 3 p.m., The
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There were
also present : Professor W. Macneile Dixon, Sir Lawrence Jones,
Bart., Miss I. Newton, Mr C. Redmayne, Mr W. H. Salter, and Mrs
W. H. Salter ; also Mr Kenneth Richmond, Editor of the Journal,
and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 172nd Private Meeting of the Society was held at the Society's
Rooms on Wednesday, 15 October 1941, at 3.30 p.m., The Hon.
Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair.
Mr Salter gave a short account of some recent sittings at Cam-
bridge under the auspices of the Society with a Glasgow medium,
Mrs Edith Thomson, and several members of the Society who had
taken part in the sittings contributed to the discussion which
followed.
Mr Salter said that war conditions had curtailed many of the
Society's usual research activities and it was therefore all the more
important to follow up any lines of research which were still practi-
cable. For several years before the war the Society had made it a
practice to investigate trance or " clairvoyant " mediums of whom
favourable reports were received from members of the Society, and
reports received of Mrs Thomson from Glasgow seemed to him to
justify an invitation to her to give sittings.
From an account Mrs Thomson had given him of her mediumship
it appeared that she first started going into trance about seven years
110 J'onrnal of Society for Psychical Research Nov.-Dec. 1941
ago : she was not at the time attached to any spiritualist circle or
similar organisation, and was not suffering from the shock of any
recent bereavement.
Since then she had been giving private sittings regularly in
Glasgow, with occasional public performances. Her control,
Peshanta, claims to be a Red Indian who lived in Dakota some
centuries ago.
Before the invitation to Mrs Thomson was given the Society had
seen an account of an interesting anonymous sitting which Lady
Culme Seymour had had with Mrs Thomson in Glasgow in October
1940. She was accompanied by her son, Captain Culme. Seymour,
R.N., who was in Glasgow on service duty. Her late husband,
Admiral Culme Seymour, was the purporting communicator and
made certain predictions regarding his son's service duties which
came as a complete surprise to the son, but turned out shortly
afterwards to be correct. Captain Culme Seymour had been a friend
of Mr Oliver Gatty, and when Peshanta spoke of a young man with
a name beginning with G., who wished to communicate, and tried
the name Gillespie, Captain Culme Seymour suggested that the name
wanted was Gatty. Peshanta accepted this suggestion and then
proceeded to give correctly the Christian names (Oliver and Penelope)
of Mr and Mrs Gatty, and the fact that Mrs Gatty had a baby
daughter. As Mrs Gatty said in the discussion, she thought it
extremely improbable that these facts were within the medium's
normal knowledge.
In view of the air raids to which London was at the time subject,
it was arranged that the sittings should take place in Cambridge.
Mrs Thomson arrived in Cambridge on the 10th June and began the
sittings, of which there were twenty, on the following day. On one
day two sittings were held ; on the other days only one. The
medium had been accustomed to sit more frequently than this in
Glasgow, and there is no reason to think that she was in any way
overworked during her Cambridge visit. At the same time, although
very comfortably housed, she was from the start somewhat depressed,
and it seems probable that the sudden change from one place to
another, combined with the inevitable restrictions imposed by war
conditions, had a prejudicial effect on her mediumship. Possibly a
constant succession of sitters, all except one unknown to her, and
changing from day to day, contributed to the same result. What-
soever the cause, a regrettably large number of sitters reported that
they had had no success.
There were sixteen sitters, in some cases accompanied by friends,
and of the sixteen the only one who had previously sat with the
Nov.-Dec. 1941 Private Meeting 111
medium was Lady Culme Seymour. Of the rest, all sat anonymously
except Mr Salter, who had made arrangements for Mrs Thomson's
visit and had met her on her arrival. To make things easy for her
he arranged to take the first sitting the following afternoon.
The medium went easily into trance after a few minutes, and
Peshanta came on the scene, speaking in a voice and manner not
very different from that of Mrs Thomson's. He occasionally inter-
jected short phrases in a language which he said was a rare Dakotan
dialect. He was assisted by a band of young men who had been
killed in the last war, the leader of the band being Julian Grenfell.
Mr Salter said that several of his own relations and his wife's father,
Professor Verrall, had purported to communicate. What had been
said about his own relations was not much to the point, but several
accurate statements had been made about Professor Verrall, and
reference was made to Mrs Verrall's automatic writing. The
evidential value of this part of the sitting would obviously depend
on the extent to which the medium had normal knowledge of the
Verralls, which would in fact have been easily obtained from litera-
ture on psychical research. Another communicator introduced was
Rupert Brooke, whom Mr Salter had known, though not intimately,
for several years. Here again a number of correct statements were
made, but it would be possible to find a normal source for them in
Rupert Brooke's own writings and in the Memoir of him published
by Sir Edward Marsh : attempts he had made to " draw " the com-
municator on unpublished incidents had met with no success.
Raymond Lodge had also been introduced and spoke with the
cheerful humour described in Sir Oliver Lodge's book Raymond.
With evident allusion to the famous sealed letter he said he hoped
that Mr Salter was not finding the baby too heavy to hold and
advised him to go slow with the tin-opener! At a second sitting,
at the end of the series, Sir Oliver was represented as in personal
control and his well-known voice and manner were successfully
reproduced.
Mr Salter said in conclusion that the uncertainty as to the medium's
normal knowledge of the personalities in question made it impossible
to form an estimate as to the evidential value of the two sittings.
Among other sitters not present at the meeting, Mr Salter men-
tioned Dr Thouless and Dr Mace as reporting incidents worthy of
remark. Dr Thouless, for example, had been accompanied by a
foreign scientist with whom he had been collaborating in some
psychological experiments, and in their sitting reference was made
to experiments which was reasonably appropriate to those in which
they had collaborated. Dr Mace noted that Peshanta seemed at
112 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, Nov.-Dec. 1941
some loss whether to treat him as an academic person or as a farmer,
he being in fact a Don who had taken up farming as a hobby ; he
thought however that these facts might have been inferred from the
conversation he had had with the medium before the sitting.
Another member, Mrs Dickson, who lives near Birmingham, re-
ported that in Cambridge shortly before the sitting she had by
chance met a friend who had evacuated herself to Cambridge after
her own home had been bombed. At the sitting there seemed to
her a clear reference to this chance encounter and the name by
which the friend was ordinarily known was correctly given.
In the discussion which followed three of the sitters, Mrs Oliver
Gatty, Mrs Richmond and the Hon. Mrs Gay gave accounts of their
experiences. Mrs Gatty gave details of the Glasgow sitting in
October, 1940, already mentioned, and gave her general impression
of the medium and Peshanta. Mrs Richmond mentioned that
Peshanta had correctly suggested that she was an automatist ; so
far as she knew, she and her husband were the only two automatists
who had sittings at Cambridge, and the suggestion had not been made
with regard to any of the other sitters. No connexion however had
been drawn between her and her husband at their respective sittings.
Mrs Gay emphasized the importance of having a full note made
of sittings, even if at the time they seemed to be completely un-
successful. In her own case she was glad that she had been able
to make a fairly full note, as some of the information given at the
sitting, although not at the time known by her to be true, had
proved so on subsequent verification.
At several points in the discussion it was emphasized that it was
most desirable that the Society should get in touch with mediums
at an early stage in their career, and before their mediumship has
been adversely affected by a long contact with uncritical or inex-
perienced sitters, and it was hoped that members would be prompt
in sending in to the Society reports of any mediums of promise whom
they might come across.
Among the more interesting results recorded, the following episode
from Mrs Gay's sitting presents a coherent picture :
Part of Record of Mrs Gay's Sitting of 28 June 1941
Record Comment
Now there is a David, who is This would be the airman son
anxious to link up with lady. Is of a great friend of mine. He
it Mary? was killed last year. The name
David is correct, but the mother's
name is not Mary.
Nov.-Dec. 1941 Private Meeting 113
He would like her to know he
is often with her. She has been
through a trying period which he
tried to smooth out. Something
about a letter gone astray re-
cently. Not knowing must have
hurt.
[The sitter having asked for
some evidence of his identity.]
He touches a ring of the lady's
and touches his hair here in front,
and says " Will you say I'm still
wholehearted?
"
[The sitter having asked for
further proof.]
He speaks of a place name be-
ginning with B. and Car- some-
thing. Is it Carter?
Then he takes a rose and
smells it. He had dark hair
with crisp curls. Nose a little
crooked.
He speaks of a ''
backward
slip " and a name which sounds
like " Minna ".
Above all give her his undying
love, and is her arm better.
I have since heard all this is
perfectly correct, although it was
quite unknown to me at the time.
My friend had had a very worry-
ing correspondence and was wait-
ing for an answer to a letter
written by her on June 25th. It
was about a subject known to
David.
This was very characteristic.
He had dark curly hair his
mother used to love. I did not
know there was a private joke
between them about his getting
married and that "I'm still
whole-hearted " was a favourite
expression of his.
He lived as a child at Burn-
stock, Carlisle.
Correct.
I cannot trace this.
I did not know she had been
suffering from her arm. and he
was worried about it before his
death.
David's mother received Mrs Gay's letter enquiring as to correct-
ness of statements made on the 2nd July 1941.
OBITUARY : DR HANS DRIESCH
We deeply regret to learn from America of the death last April of
Dr Hans Driesch, a Vice-President of the Society, and a former
President (1926-1927).
Dr Driesch, the most distinguished German scientist of our time
to take an active part in psychical research, was all his life a friend
of Great Britain and devoted to the cause of friendly co-operation
114 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov.-Dec. 1941
between men of learning of all countries. He studied for a time at
the Marine Biological Laboratory at Plymouth, gave the Gifford
Lectures at Aberdeen University in 1907-1908, and at various times
before and after the last war lectured at several other British Univer-
sities. He was one of the few German men of learning who, early
in the last war, resolutely resisted all official pressure to sign the
notorious manifesto whereby the achievements of British and French
learning were depreciated for the greater glory of the Fatherland.
After the war, at the invitation of Mr Mikinskay, a former Czech
pupil and a member of the S.P.R., he lectured in Prague to a com-
bined audience of German and Czech students, in an effort to create
harmony between their hostile sections. In 1930 he presided with
eminent tact over the Fourth International Congress for Psychical
Research at Athens. It was inevitable that a man of such a wide
outlook and so courageous a devotion to ideals should suffer when the
Nazis seized power, and soon after he was deprived of his Pro-
fessorship.
Driesch's life-work was concerned with the philosophy of science,
which he approached from the special standpoint of the biologist.
Embryological experiments performed by him, particularly with the
blastula of echinoderms, convinced him that the mechanistic view
of life was untenable, as being unable to account for the adaptive
and restitutive processes of living organisms.
In the endless war between vitalists and mechanists the terrain is
constantly shifting. In becoming a champion of vitalism, Driesch
was not content with any theory implying either the creation of
energy in the mechanical world by any non-mechanical factor, or
that such a factor could change the direction of mechanical forces :
either view seemed to him at variance with the strictly limited
character of all adaptive or restitutive regulations. Starting with
the view that in any organism a large number of cells each had the
same great number of possibilities of developement physico-chem-
ically prepared, he suggested that a " regulatory relaxing action
"
checked certain developments in certain cells and left others to pro-
ceed unchecked : to this process he gave the name of " entelechy ".
Driesch did not in any way base his biological theories on evidence
derived from psychical phenomena : in The Problem of Individuality
(1913) he spoke of possessing " the highest admiration " for " the
remarkable work done by the S.P.R.", but described the phenomena
as " certain groups of rather problematic facts . . . which do not yet
allow of any definite interpretation ". But, as is clear from his
Presidential address (Proc. XXXVI, p. 171), and his book, Psychical
Research (reviewed in the Journal, Vol. XXVIII), he regarded the
Nov.-Dec. 1941 Obituary Notice 115
results of psychical research and vitalist theory as harmonising with
each other.
By temperament as well as intellect Driesch was well qualified to
judge what phenomena deserved acceptance. His own direct ex-
perience was not, however, very extensive. In view of the special
interest he showed in the relations of the conscious and subconscious,
as regards relative fulness of memory and otherwise, and in the
question whether the phenomena required for their explanation
some mind more comprehensive than that of the individual, it is
unfortunate that he had no opportunity for first-hand study of cases
of non-pathological dissociation. A closer acquaintance with a line
of research which has played a large part in our Society's work might
have enabled him to come to a more definite conclusion on the issue
of personal survival.
W. H. S.
MRS L. K. G. CRANDON
In recording last year the death of Dr Crandon we referred to the
courteous hospitality which he and Mrs Crandon had shown to
many of our members visiting the United States. News of Mrs
Crandon's death has now reached England. Whatever be the
ultimate verdict on her long and extremely varied mediumship,
" Margery " is sure of a large place in the history of the psychical
research of our generation.
BOOKS FOR THE FORCES
In response to an appeal by a lady in charge of a mobile library for
H.M. Forces, the Society is collecting suitable books on Psychical
Research for forwarding to her. Several members have already been
so good as to send books written by themselves, and it has been
possible to include in the collection some duplicate copies from the
Library.
If any members can spare suitable books from their own shelves,
will they please send the names of the books to Miss Horsell. The
books offered should be of some permanent interest, and not too
technical. Any of the recommended books mentioned in the list
published by the National Book Society (copies obtainable from
Miss Horsell) would be welcome.
116 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov.-Dec. 1941
CASE : GREEK SCRIPT BY A CHILD OF FOUR
This case has been contributed by Dr Olive Hope, a Member of the
Society. The formation of Creek letters by a small child not yet
able to write is a curious phenomenon, and the mental and motor
processes involved are not easily ascribed to an accidental freak of
childish observation, memory and manual performance. The
context supplied by the child's parents suggests a possible meaning
and intention, exterior to the child's mind. It is interesting that a
further Creek letter, required to complete a word which had been
suggested to the father's mind by the letters already written
spontaneously, was added by the child, out of place, shortly after
a suggestion from the father that something was missing. This
could be attributed to a telepathic effect between father and child if
it be assumed that a suitable motor impulse can be produced in this
way : it seems difficult, however, to interpret the entire episode in
terms of telepathy with the father as agent.
Dr Olive Hope wrote as follows :
St. Anne's Well,
Andover, Hants,
Aug. 22, 1941.
You ask that members should report any unusual incident that
comes to their notice.
During our holiday my husband and I visited the Rev F. Brown-
ing and his wife, friends of some years standing, at their home, The
Vicarage, Worth Matravers, Dorset.
Mr Browning spent many years of his life as a missionary. He is
something of a mystic, but also a man of undoubted veracity, and a
very good witness. His wife has considerable ability as a portrait
painter, so that " Mary ", the child mentioned in the narrative,
might be expected to be sensitive. It appears that on a certain day
(1939-1940, the child being then four years of age, and unable to
form letters), her parents were gravely troubled over the question
of sea-evacuation, and unable to make a decision.
Mrs Browning was writing letters, and Mary was scribbling, when
her father entered the room and saw that she had formed what seemed
to him to be a series of Creek letters.
This alleged writing of Greek was so unexpected in a child of four
that it crossed his mind that the writing might be a message from
his father, a distinguished Greek scholar, given through the hand of
the child, since the old gentleman had, in life, been in the habit of
communicating with him in Greek.
I do not myself know Greek, but I understand that the letters
Nov.-Dec. 1941 Greek Script by a Child of Four 117
formed a word meaning " See through ", or " See beyond "with
the exception of a missing letter p.
While he was actually pondering this the child left her play, and,
after a few moments, returned and, with some uncertainty inserted
the " missing " letter at the wrong place at the beginning of the
word.
According to my recollection :
(1) Mr Browning said to the child, a moment before she left her
play, " Haven't you forgotten something, Mary." Other-
wise nothing was said to influence the child, he spoke also
to Mrs Browning, without, I understand, mentioning the
letter.
(2) There was no Greek lettering available from which she could
have practiced.
(3) Nothing of the same kind has happened before or since.
Thinking the matter over I wrote to our friends, and asked Mr
Browning to send a statement. Owing to his illness Mrs Browning
has written, and the point that the missing letter was actually in
the father's mind when the child returned is not brought out in her
statement.
It seems to me of considerable importance. Unfortunately,
regarding the matter entirely as a message from his father, Mr
Browning has cut away the surrounding scribble, retaining only the
part of the page containing the lettering, which he has pasted in the
Bible.
I do not know what value this case possesses and should be glad
to hear your opinion.
Yours sincerely, Olive Hope.
Dr Hope enclosed the letter from Mrs Browning which she
mentions. Omitting the opening in which she explains that Mr
Browning is laid up with a chill, we print Mrs Browning's account of
the case :
The Vicarage,
Worth Matravers,
Dorset. Aug. 20th, 1941.
Dear Mrs Hope,
... I have traced Mary's writing exactly as it is and Frank
[Mr Browning] has just written the translation. If it isn't what you
want let me know. 1
I sat down to write letters one afternoon and Mary came into the
room and said, " I want to write a letter," so I gave her a sheet of
writing paper and a pencil to amuse her. She began scribbling and
118 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov.-Dec. 1941
I took no notice until Frank came into the room, and exclaimed
" Mary is writing Greek !" I immediately said, " Is it a message
from your father? " Mary jumped down and started playing on
the other side of the room. Then whilst we were wondering about it
she came back, picked up the pencil and added the missing letter in
front. Then she went on with her playing and seemed quite un-
conscious of the whole thing. We had been rather worried that day
because I had had a cable from America asking us to send Mary to
California and a letter from Frank's brother in Canada asking us
to send her there.
Mary had never tried to write any letters in English, and she had
never seen any Greek, so it did seem amazing. She didn't start
lessons until six months later when she was five and then she couldn't
form any letters as well as she formed the Greek ones.
Frank says his father always wrote in Greek if he wanted to say
anything important or send a message, so he felt it was from him
and was very much cheered. We didn't worry about the war after
that, but tried to see through to the spiritual realities. One old lady
in the parish said to me soon afterwards " I have a strong feeling
that we shan't be bombed whilst this vicar is in the parish."
Yours with love, Kathleen Browning.
We reproduce below, in its actual size, the tracing taken from the
Greek letters by Mrs Browning. We have also correspondence from
Dr Olive Hope and her husband, Dr M. F. Hope, in which it is stated
that this tracing fairly reproduces the original and that in the original
the Greek letters are as clearly formed as in the tracing.
The accompanying comment by Mr Browning shows that he reads
this as Siopeze, " see through ". This injunction appears to have
been taken by the parents both in a general sense as suggesting a
far-sighted attitude in troublous times, and in a particular sense as
advice to examine thoroughly the proposal to evacuate the child,
before coming to a decision. Mr Browning records the following
points :
" The Greek p was originally omitted by the child, and added by a
Nov.-Dbc. 1941 Greek Script by a Child of Four 119
fresh impulse a few minutes after the writing of the other letters, 1
(it will be realized that there was no room for it in its proper place).
She was four at the time and had not begun to learn to write. My
Father, who passed away ten years previously, (her grandfather), in
Western Canada, was a great classical scholar, and constantly quoted
Greek. After missing the p, her hand became a little shaky and the
last two letters are not quite so well formed as the others.
W. F. Browning."
AN APPARITION SEEN BY TWO WITNESSES
In his autobiography, Final Edition (pp. 257-8), Mr E. F. Benson
(son of Archibishop Benson) recounts the following incident, which
happened at his house at Rye.
After speaking of a curious psychic atmosphere which both he and
several of his friends perceived in the house he continues :
" Then
. . . this atmosphere became more personal ; there was something-
there. The presence was in no way perilous or malign . . . nor was
it friendly ; it was entirely indifferent. Suddenly a curious thing
happened. Whether or no it betokened a visible manifestation of
the haunting presence, I have no idea.
" On a windless summer day two friends, of whom the Vicar of
Rye was one, were lunching with me and afterwards we strolled
down to the secret garden. It was a brilliant, broiling day and we
seated ourselves in a strip of shade close to the door in the wall
which communicated with the other garden. This door was open ;
two of our chairs, the Vicar's and mine, faced it, the other had its
back to it.
" And I saw the figure of a man walk past this open doorway.
He was dressed in black and he wore a cape the right wing of which,
as he passed, he threw across his chest, over his left shoulder. His
head was turned away and I did not see his face. The glimpse I got
of him was very short, for two steps took him past the open doorway,
and the wall behind the poplars hid him again. Simultaneously the
vicar jumped out of his chair, exclaiming, '
Who on earth was that?
'
It was only a step to the open door and there, beyond, the garden
lay, basking in the sun and empty of any human presence. He told
me what he had seen ; it was exactly what I had seen, except that
our visitor had worn hose, which I had not noticed.
1
Mr Browning apparently does not recall, when writing this, a fact men-
tioned by Dr Olive Hope : according to her recollection of what was told
her he made a suggestion to the child that she had " forgotten something," and
the letter p was added by the child shortly after this suggestion was made.
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov. -Dec. 1941
" Now the odd feature about this meaningless apparation is that
the first time this visitor appeared he was seen simultaneously by
two people whose impressions as to his general mien and his gesture
with his cloak completely tallied with each other. There was no
legend about such an appearance which could have predisposed
either of them to have imagined that he saw anything at all, and the
broad sunlight certainly did not lend itself to any conjuring up of a
black moving figure. Not long afterwards it was seen again in
broad daylight by the vicar at the same spot ;
just a glimpse and
then it vanished. I was with him but I saw nothing. Since then I
think I have seen it once in the evening on the lawn near the garden-
room, but it was dusk and I may have constructed some fleeting
composition of light and shadow into the same figure. ... I have no
doubt whatever that the vicar and I saw something that had no
existence in the material world."
The then Vicar of Rye, the Rev. Prebendary John Fowler, has
kindly replied to an enquiry from the Editor and given general
confirmation to Mr Benson's account. He adds :
" None of us three had, I believe, been thinking of '
ghosts '
—at
any rate I had not and no word was spoken of them by any of us,
that
1
windless summer day '. Why should '
he '
be there and with
a cloak too? But there are often these '
Whys? '. I thought it was
some one, not some thing, and sprang up to see who he was."
CORRESPONDENCE
The Question of Survival
Sir,—I have read with much interest Mr Abdy Collins' paper in
the current issue of Proceedings. It happens that a further short
paper of my own dealing with the same subject appears in this
number.
It seems to me to be possible that Mr Collins may wish to make
further criticisms of my views as expressed in this second paper,
I therefore propose to postpone any comments which I have to make
until he has had the opportunity to do so.
Yours faithfully,
H. F. Saltmarsh.
Sir,—On reading in the last issue of Proceedings the paper entitled
" Ambiguity in the Question of Survival ", I could not help but
remark how the conclusions drawn depended more upon the author's
opinions than upon the reasonings of the paper. The gist of Mr
Saltmarsh's thesis appeared to be as follows :
Nov.-Dec. 1941 Correspondence 121
Mr Saltmarsh first pointed out that the question of survival might
be placed in either of two categories, according to the mode of
formulation, viz. :
(1) Questions which are unanswerable because they have no
intelligible meaning,
or (2) Questions which concern facts about which evidence is
available.
He explains that, for the purpose of his argument, the existence
of any given thing is to be called its behaviour pattern, and then
formulates the question of survival by asking whether the behaviour
pattern of a given individual (at a certain date in the normal time
sequence), before death will sufficiently resemble the resulting
behaviour pattern (at a given instant in the same time sequence)
after death for the two to be considered as characteristic of the same
personality. Mr Saltmarsh then attempts to relegate this question
to category no. 1, on account of the following ambiguities.
(a) We have no criterion which enables us to decide what changes
are compatible with historical continuity.
(b) We have no knowledge of the nature of a pure psychical entity,
except that it forms a mind when in combination with the
physical body.
(c) We have no reason for assuming that unidimensional time
with an irreversible direction change exists in the world
to come, or, indeed,
—
(d) that such fundamental things as space, causation and logic
exist there.
Mr Saltmarsh therefore reformulates the question by asking,
" Does physical death entail the complete destruction of the
psychical entity in our minds? " He consents to allow this question
to rest in category no. 2, and indicates that in his opinion the
correct reply is, " No, not always, but what survives is very probably
not the '
me I now recognise as myself ' ".
Mr Saltmarsh's paper is no doubt a perfect piece of logic, but its
conclusions depend so much upon the validity of the " ambiguities
"
cited that it is worth considering them one by one.
(a) Mr Saltmarsh contends that death must involve considerable
changes in the personality undergoing that process. (He gives us
to understand that by personality is meant " psychical character-
istics and dispositions, intellectual, volitional, emotional, mnemic
and so on ".) This contention appears to be merely a matter of
personal opinion, and is contrary to that of many of the psychical
researchers who base their views upon the results of mediumistic
I
-2-2
Journal of Society for Psychical Research Nov.-Dec. 1941
investigations. Somewhat later in his paper Mr Saltmarsh makes it
quite clear upon what this expression of opinion rests. He questions
whether trance mediumship will ever permit a sufficiently clear and
complete delineation of character to establish that the communi-
cating entity is identical with the personality purporting to be
present. Moreover Mr Saltmarsh is pretty sure that, if the phe-
nomenon of the direct voice does exist, it is only as a very brief and
fugitive manifestation, incapable of carrying on sustained conver-
sations. In the light of accounts of such trumpet mediums as
Valiantine this is a very curious suggestion. Whether or no the
voices heard at a trumpet seance are produced by the medium's
larynx is a comparatively small point, what is very evident about
such seances is that the purporting surviving personalities are able
to hold sustained (and veridical), conversations without the use of
the familiar intermediary or " control ". I therefore feel justified
in considering objection (a) irrelevant because I, (in common I
believe with many other psychic researchers), cannot concur with
the opinion that any great change takes place in the personality
on the death of the physical body.
(6) If the psychical is regarded as that part of the mind which can
function independently of immediate bodily stimuli, we surely know
something about it. Dreams, in the opinion of both the bulk of the
Spiritualists, especially the believers in astral projection, and the
indefatigable Mr Dunne, form a valuable clue. An endeavour to
explore the depths of the mind to which E.S.P. belongs seems
feasible. Mr Saltmarsh would appear to maintain that this sort of
thing does not give a true picture of the purely psychical, because
all knowledge, however attained, must rise to consciousness via the
brain, by which process it presumably becomes modified in some
way. This amounts to an assumption that consciousness is entirely
dependent upon the activities of the physical brain,—a view which
comes suspiciously near to begging the question. In any case, what
objection is there under these circumstances to resorting to an
examination of the psychic entities themselves in order to find out
what are the characteristics of the purely psychical ?
Mr Saltmarsh further contends that the synthesis of psychical
and physical in the living organism is analagous to the synthesis of
two elements into a single chemical compound ; and no investigation
of a chemical compound as such will reveal the properties of its
constituent elements, since these are entirely different and inde-
pendent of those of the compound which they form. The analogy
can scarcely be perfect, since the living organism certainly possesses
the properties of its physical constituent .
Nov.-Dec. 1941 Reviews 123
(c) The existence of a particular personality does not depend upon
its having a time with an irreversible direction change. Foretelling
future events does not alter the incarnate personality, and entrance
into a dream-like world in which past, present and future can be
viewed at will does not entail the changing of the personality beyond
recognition. In other words the existence of a different type of time
in the world to come is not a fact which renders the meaning of the
question obscure.
(d) I have already stressed the fact that niediumistic phenomena
support the view that death, in so far as the personality experiencing
it is concerned, is not such a drastic change as it appears at first
sight. It is therefore an unnecessary complication, in my opinion
at least, to postulate extraordinary states of affairs in the " next
world " (which there is no reason to believe exist in practice), merely
because of their theoretical possibility.
In effect I have transferred Mr Saltmarsh's first question into
category no. 2, so that his second question becomes unnecessary
and so need not be considered.
I am, Yours etc.
Donald J. West.
REVIEWS
It followsfrom ESP. By J. B. Rhine. The Journal of the American
Society for Psychical Research. Vol. XXXV, No. 6, Oct, 1941.
Dr Rhine expresses much diffidence in publishing this speculative
essay on the implications of ESP, originally circulated privately
among a small number of friends, but it should be welcomed by a
wider circle of readers. Speculation, which is not pretentious, is not
confused with scientific inference, but simply and frankly reflects the
thoughts of a man with outstanding practical experience of research,
is of real value to our work, if we hope to be guided by a growing
conception of the meaning of our facts. It is all the better if such
speculation is not hammered too diligently into seeming coherence,
but leaves gaps where there are gaps, showing where further know-
ledge needs to be sought.
The central conception about which Dr Rhine's thoughts revolve
is that we appear to be confronted with events which can be experi-
mentally caused to occur and are not subject to the spatial and
temporal laws associated with causation in the world of physical
science. (Extra-sensory events occur without regard for the ordinary
effects of distance, or leap over an interval of time so that an experi-
ence belonging to the future may produce a reaction upon the mind
124 Journal of Society for Psijchical Research Nov. -Dec. 1941
and the physical nervous system in the present.) It is duly pointed
out that independence of spatial law logically involves independence
of temporal sequence, and vice versa. We thus have a " spaceless
"
and " timeless " order of mental event interacting with physical
changes in nerve cells which have spatio-temporal organisation : a
state of things which precludes any complete dualism of mind and
body, since systems which are ultimately different cannot interact.
From this point, discussion ofthe psycho-physical problem must either
be desultory and inconclusive, recognising our lack of knowledge, or
else draw upon the inventive imagination : Dr Rhine prefers to leave
his speculations scrappy but within touch of conclusions from
observation and experiment, and at the same time leaves the reader
at liberty to speculate in his own way. Some concluding thoughts on
religious and ethical conceptions suggest that the doctrine of an
extra-physical self has at least incipient support from the evidence
of extra-physical action provided by research into ESP, and that
ethical aims should gain in force and effectiveness as a wider con-
ception of personality comes within the range of practical scientific
thinking.
K. R.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only ". The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
No. 580-581.—Vol. XXXII January-February 1942
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
NOTICE OF MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of
the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. 1
ON
WEDNESDAY, 25 February, ig42, at 3 p.m.
To transact the business set out on the formal notice dated
the 21 January, 1942, and already circulated.
MR KENNETH RICHMOND WILL SPEAK ON
THE WORK OF THE PRECOGNITION
COMMITTEE
(Blennerhassett Benefaction
)
N.B.
—
Members alone have the right to take part in the business of
the Annual General Meeting, but Associates may be present,
8
r_><; Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1942
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 8 December 1941)
Blackwell, Lady, 7 Hay Hill, London, W. 1.
Evans, Rev Dr B. Penry, 9 Broad Walk, Caerleon, Mon.
Leslie, Shane, Glaslough, Co. Monaghan, Eire.
Howell Smith, A. D., 23 Ennerdale Road, Kew, Surrey.
{Elected 15 January 1942)
Brown, Donald G., Walcot, 3 Calstock Road, Woodthorpe, Notting-
ham.
Jackson, Francis L., 25 Claremont Gardens, Tunbridge Wells, Kent.
Norman, Mrs C. H., c/o The Porter's Lodge, Heathcroft, Hampstead
Way, London, N.W. 11.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 384th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Thursday, 15 January 1942, at 3 p.m., The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Professor W.
Macneile Dixon, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Miss I. Newton, Mr
W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter and Mr H. F. Saltmarsh ; also Miss
E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
NOTICE OF PRIVATE MEETING
Dr H. J. Ehrenwald, M.D. (Prague), will read a paper, " A
Psycho-therapist's View of Telepathy and Mediumship ", on
Wednesday, 25 March, at 3.30 p.m.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR 1941
The " great and increasing difficulties " mentioned by the Council
in their report for 1940 as affecting the Society's work have been
intensified during 1941. The financial stringency is much greater ;
difficulties of travel make some kinds of research impracticable, and
Jan.-Feb. 1942 Annual Report of the Council for 1941 127
preoccupation with war-work prevents many of our members from
being as active in the Society's work as they would wish. The
Council are glad to be able to report that along those lines of research
which are still open good progress has been made.
(1) Research. In the spring the Eesearch Officer, Mr C. V. C.
Herbert, joined the Army. The Council are sure that all Members
will join with them in wishing him good fortune and success.
Under the auspices of the Cambridge Committee, Mr Whately
Carington has been continuing his work on the Paranormal Cogni-
tion of Drawings. An account of two major experiments, in one of
which groups from ten British Universities took part, was published
in the Proceedings for June (Part 164). Recent work has been
mainly devoted to the development of a repeatable technique for
general use, and to the preparation of a Catalogue of all objects
drawn or mentioned in the course of the first seven experiments for
use in this connection. The results are encouraging, and it is hoped
to issue the Catalogue shortly.
The experiments of Mrs Goldney and Mr Soal in Precognitive
Telepathy have been continued throughout the past year with con-
spicuous success. The earlier results, of which some account was
given by Mr Kenneth Richmond in the Journal for June-July 1941,
have been confirmed and several new effects of striking interest have
been demonstrated. The work is being carried out under conditions
of control which have probably never before been equalled in the
history of the subject. A number of persons of note have seen the
experiments and have recorded their impressions. The special
thanks of the experimenters are due to Miss Elliott for her con-
tinued co-operation, and to Mrs Woollard for much valued assis-
tance.
The question of precognition has for some years been playing an
increasingly large part in the Society's researches, and the Council
accordingly decided that the time had come to appoint a special
Committee to investigate the matter, and that there was no object
to which the income of the Blennerhassett Trust could more suitably
be devoted. Mr Richmond was appointed Organising Secretary to
this Committee, which has carefully considered the best method of
attacking this very difficult problem.
The first suggestion before the Committee was that further in-
vestigation of precognition in dreams should be pursued, by methods
of the kind which are described in Mr J. W. Dunne's An Experiment
with Time. After careful consideration it was decided that the
method of comparing dream-images with subsequent spontaneous
events did not lend itself to accurate assessment of results by com-
128 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan. -Feb. 1942
putation, but could only be expected to contribute further data to
an already established prima facie case for precognition in dreams.
To obtain results capable of accurate assessment it was judged
necessary to compare the images arising in dreams with subsequent
events which should be under experimental control, and experiments
are proceeding in which events for comparison with dream-images
consist in the presentation of drawings, the subjects of which are
randomly selected after the occurrence of the dreams.
This method has the advantage of linking up with the technique
developed by Mr Carington in his experimental work on the para-
normal cognition of drawings, and can also be applied to the assess-
ment of precognitive impressions occurring under experimental
conditions otherwise than in dreams, as, for example, in waking
reverie. Interesting results are also apparent from experiment with
a group of percipients who note any stray spontaneous impressions
that occur to them during a period of ten minutes, and compare
these with the subject of a drawing which is randomly selected,
prepared and shown to them at the end of this period.
It is hoped to conduct further group experiments in connexion
with small meetings of those interested in the investigation : by
these meetings the Committee hopes also to enlist the help of a
number of people in collecting good spontaneous cases of precogni-
tion, properly attested, and in making touch with percipients who
may show any special precognitive abilities. While it is naturally
impossible to lay down a set scheme for the capture of spontaneous
phenomena, the Committee regards the collection and study of such
material as of fully equal importance with that of evidence suitable
for numerical assessment.
The Trustees of the Kesearch Endowment Fund have agreed to
bear part of the expenses arising from the Committee's enquiry and
Mr Soal's experiments, in addition to bearing the cost of the work
of the Cambridge Committee.
In view of the highly specialised nature of quantitative research
into paranormal cognition, a special Committee of Reference and
Publication has been appointed to scrutinise all papers mainly relat-
ing to quantitative research submitted for publication in Proceedings.
Mr Saltmarsh has kindly consented to undertake, in regard to such
work, the administrative duties ordinarily falling on the Hon.
Secretary.
In the summer the Council invited Mrs Edith Thomson, a Glasgow
clairvoyant medium of whom they had received favourable reports,
to give sittings under the auspices of the Society. The sittings took
place in June in Cambridge. A report on them was read to the
Jan.-Feb. 1942 Annual Report of the Council for 1941 129
Society at a private meeting by the Hon. Secretary, and has been
summarised in the Journal for November-December.
The Council wish to thank several members of the Society who
have kindly contributed reports on other mediums.
Spontaneous cases of various kinds have been reported to the
Society. Unfortunately it is in present conditions sometimes not
possible for *a trained investigator to visit the scene of the occur-
rence. The temporary breakdown in this respect of the Society's
organisation has shown very clearly how greatly even well-educated
persons need training in S.P.R. methods before they can handle
such cases satisfactorily, either for the benefit of those who suffer
from the phenomena of poltergeists and hauntings, or for the
advancement of knowledge.
(2) Financial Positioyi. This has given rise to some anxiety. As
members were informed in the last General Report, the tenancy of
the upper part of the building has lapsed and it has not been found
possible to secure another tenant. There is therefore a loss of in-
come from this source. There has been, further, a substantial falling
off in the income from subscriptions. On the other side of the
account there have been some small savings in expenditure, from
relief of rates and slightly lower printing costs, but against these
must be set added expenditure due to the war, such as repairs of
damage and premium on chattel insurance. The estimated deficit
would have been roughly £150 had not the Trustees of the Endow-
ment Fund agreed to bear the full cost of the Cambridge Committee's
experiments and made a contribution of £120 towards the cost of
printing the reports thereon, thus reducing the deficit by about
one half.
As for the future, it is clear that no immediate improvement in
the financial situation can be expected, and, although the assistance
from the Endowment Fund has enabled the General Account to
finish the year without an overdraft at the Bank, a greater measure
of support will be needed in the coming year unless expenditure be
drastically reduced. The only direction in which this could be
effected is in printing, and the Council feel the greatest reluctance
to limit this, seeing that it is by means of Proceedings and the
Journal that members and the public are kept informed of the
activities of the Society and the results of the various researches
which are being carried on.
The amount of assistance which the Endowment Fund can give
is strictly limited by its own commitments, and should there be any
further serious falling off in the income from subscriptions, it may
become necessary to trench upon reserves. While the Council
C-.
&3
oq
i—
i
eo
q
si
-
6-1
C)
-r
ft<
o
ft?
o
©
— ^ " ° fM 00 X CO tO © I
-
- 01 o
OCON o O CO l» C". ffi' OJ H »o CO t"- CO
iC i—i o CD ifi to i.O C. O C3 r1 CO lO. lO t"- CO o CO
CO 1—
1
CO I-H CO CM lO
to CO ii o ©
CO o ©
1
HH
O CO O l£i CO CO rH rH
© Ol CO Tf
<N CM
>t
K 9
W 'O fH
.sss
CQHj
B5ft,s
= £ £
B & |
»•§ ?
S ~ '
s § §§ S-
CO OO
H
t*i
^ B c3 _
0j -t-> B
3 a £ 3
m .3 g£
i ~ ~f. -
^ B - 3
ift i-H O
NHO
NOOSHOO C-
<M >r; Cft 00 CO o t>
: i -o : i
- ~ ~ -t
-f lO H W CM
Ol i-f
Ol <M r
c+i 0>
co O
— —
00
CO
-+ O CM
r.
s
a ^ £ - >'
60 © 5J CU CD •
as
ft,
- «£
|.S O
CO ^ w
(.SIX
» s ^
||11
1^8
q-g Cm
>" CO o
S B _ 3
i - --
"a
©CO©
© 00 co t- -#
©Nco
©T-l
H
8o
it
S 8
m -
<£ O O »
^ ^
T-H X tH 1>
" ~3 S
§5o3
-
LOGO i—(
CO 1-1 uO
iH H
o o OS
1-
>!
0 -a
uo is
1—i
"
OS
2; 5 5 c
•§ o o a
w J* M
b
*i -yi fl
5 £• = g
-
~ -~ -
:- - x
a B c a
|ooh
8
O
H
3
-
s
<
c
& 3 3
8 o o
goo
•-
aOfl
grtB
500
H
r-l O
s s s
^ -
CO O c
« s 6
co 3 5?
500
8
cq
lb
IP
g g 8
~ ~
w
O
P3
<J
K
K
r
-i
M
Q
M
w
OQ
Ph
c
Q
y
"* 0 O ©C 30 ©©C _^
CO 0 c »o r> o<M©ira t -
rH >-H
SO 01
rN 1—1 1—
1
X>C0 O
j: ci : 1
Ol l - !C CO I~-
lO -+ X ©
CO CO iO OJ
OJ -t* i-H "-2
-> Pi,
•
^
2"" S
>.
Ph
. I! o
Bondi
Psych
Fund
CO £a £• ?S ° H >
^'fKj-S E o a
??r
-S i- x ~
r\ ~ S3 M w
« S »0 „ «
* » u „ 5 03
v s o eow
4o o
0
V,
H
a
5
o
R
S3
-
g a
t: °
C sh
<d . a>
j£ -14 <*-
•S o^: £
in _
c « % 3
3 t3 P.
S c 2 s
o » 3 O
g mm?
c £ £S
t- o o '-3
*2 cd
« C a> >>
- ~ «
CD piu
> .. ^
, 2 o-i
o stz<
CO ^ (
v, a.i
O OOOrHOO
m o
, ce
IH«H
* a*
J « [fid
^ CD CD S
© CD £
— 3
tf^"^ <d
• 1 <= 5 §
^ Cu .5 .3 -e
" -a-a a
£ c c a£
a ai « qj
C C3 M
ooo oooo
:ooooo ooo oooo
OCODCOO
CO O O O O O' o
Tt< -t co oo c; w
ift O 00
in O m
O CO oi
**ooo
p
v.
J
fM
HiOH g
^ Oco j-
2
"3
"ota-S o Si2
S-gS Etc c 2 >^
\0\°^\0\
0,
if S
o^oXoo^o tr - teg
(M CO « >i C <^
I—
I
H'J'HCOOOOOO
COdtoOiOOOOH
iOWCOhOOiOO©
rH <Ui W ^ ^
tt>: m «
° ^ S d
•9 .-S 2 od o
- -.
o°£=g g h
- p.c;
K353 sa a
5 MKOjCo
« rto g
BR™ £
»5
PS
v
-
H
-
-
-
-
Q
SB
P
u O
CO
go
e §
a) >
a§
OO
UO »rt
'-tic*)
'3 -?
o "B
t>
|
es
(n
o c
o ni
w s
si
% s
a-
O >J
O H
o a
- §
a* w
•3 H
o «
» -g
2 S
5 a
E o
f Si
m 0j
a s
a
» 03
Jan.-Feb. 1942 Annual Report of the Council for 1941 133
would regret being compelled to adopt this course, it is felt that it
would be preferable to suspending research and thus limiting
seriously the usefulness of the Society's work.
A Chattel Insurance for £1,000 against air raid damage to furni-
ture, fittings, etc., has been effected.
(3) Presidency. Prof. H. H. Price was re-elected for a third term
of office. In addition to the ordinary duties of President he has
taken an active part in the work of the Precognition Committee and
the Special Committee of Reference dealing with " quantitative
"
papers.
(4) Prof. W. Macneile Dixon and Mr Geoffrey Redmayne have
been co-opted Members of the Council.
(5) The Council are glad to take this opportunity to put on record
the indebtedness of the Society to the Hon. Secretary, Mr W. H.
Salter, especially in present difficult conditions due to the war.
Notwithstanding other calls upon his services and the inconveniences
•of travel, Mr Salter has not spared himself in the cause of the
Society, and it is largely owing to him that the internal unity, and
the vitality and enterprise of the administrative work, have been so
well kept up.
(6) The Council have learnt with pleasure that the American
Society for Psychical Research and the Boston Society for Psychic
Research, both of which have done work of immense value, have
united their forces under the Presidency of Dr George H. Hyslop,
son of Dr James H. Hyslop. The re-organised Society may con-
fidently look forward to a most successful and distinguished future.
(7) Obituary. During the year two former Presidents of the
Society, M. Henri Bergson and Prof. Hans Driesch, have died ; the
Council also learnt the death, in the previous year, of Dr Elwood
Worcester, the Founder of the Boston S.P.R. and a Corresponding
Member of our Society, and of Dr J. F. Thomas, an American
psychical researcher of distinction. Obituary notices of them have
appeared in the Proceedings and Journal.
(8) Library. During 1941 43 Members borrowed books, and 36
books were borrowed by the National Central Library for Students.
Members also availed themselves of the privilege of borrowing books
from other Libraries through the Society and the National Central
Library.
(9) Membership of the Society. Seventeen new Members have
been elected. The total loss from deaths, resignations and other
causes is 34 Members and 13 Associates, leaving a net decrease of
30 in the total membership of the Society, which now stands
at 576.
134 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1942
(10) Publications. Two parts of Proceedings were published dur-
ing the year, Part 164 in June and Part 165 in September.
The Secretary's sales to the general public amounted to £19
15s. 6d., and to Members of the Society £16 4s. 4d., and through the
Society's agent in the United States, £6 12s. 4d.
(11) Meetings. The following Meetings have been held during
the year
:
26 Feb. Annual General Meeting.
28 May. " Jung's Conception of Personality, from the Point of
View of Psychical Research ", by Dr H. Godwin
Baynes.
15 Oct. " Recent Sittings with a Medium at Cambridge ", by Mr
W. H. Salter.
ASSISTANCE BY MEMBERS
Members of the Society have on various occasions kindly offered to
help in carrying on our work. There are two forms of assistance
which the Officers of the S.P.R. would greatly appreciate at the
present time.
First, there is note-taking at sittings. From the S.P.R. point of
view sittings with trance or clairvoyant mediums lose most of their
value unless a full note is kept of what is said both by the medium
and the sitter. The ideal arrangement is for the note to be by a
shorthand-writer with previous experience of this class of work,
but in present conditions this can seldom be realised. Many
people have, however, trained themselves to make notes in ab-
breviated longhand, which are of almost equal value, and it would
be a very great help if members who have practised this, and who
were willing to act as note-takers at sittings in their own neigh-
bourhood, would send their names to Miss Horsell.
The second form of help is also of national importance, namely
salvage of waste paper. The Society has already handed over a
large quantity, but there are in the files many old letters, dealing
with routine matters of no importance, which could well be dis-
posed of, if they could be sorted out from other papers which should
be kept. This is too big a task for the Officers of the Society to
attempt unaided. Offers of help in it would be most acceptable.
Jan.-Feb. 1942 135
CASE : A DREAM SUGGESTING PRECOGNITION
The following case was sent to us by Lady Campbell, whose letter
describing the episode is printed below with its accompanying cor-
roborative statement.
Woodrow High House,
Nr. Amersham, Bucks,
27th December, 1941.
The Editor, Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Dear Sir,—Since the war began I have had some dreams which
are interesting to me as suggesting that Mr Dunne's theories are
supported by the facts. As you invite correspondence on subjects
under investigation by the Society, I will describe a dream, or
sequence of dreams, which happens to have evidential value, as I
told it to others before events proved that it was prophetic. The
dream was divided into three parts, and you will notice the curious
circumstance that the intervals between the parts of the dream
correspond with intervals of time in the events themselves.
My daughter left a sanatorium, where she had been under treat-
ment for tuberculosis, and settled in a cottage in Bucks with her
two children, the third week in September. 41. Her progress had
been satisfactory, and she looked and felt very well, so that I was
in a happy frame of mind about her. However, the cottage was
unsuitable and she found another, nearer us, and was about to
move into it shortly, which pleased me.
Dream (a). During the week October 20-27, I dreamed that I
went to see her in the cottage (into which she was to move in a
few days). She was very reserved and I felt unhappy, and got up
to leave as she did not seem to wish to talk to me. At the door I
turned back to say goodbye. I realised that she was in great
distress of mind. I said, " You are wretched, what is the matter?
"
She flung her arms around me, crying bitterly. I woke up sobbing,
and my husband woke, and my maid in the next room heard me.
I knew that something terrible had happened, but did not know
what it was.
Dream (b). As soon as I had grasped the fact that it was only a
dream, I went to sleep again. I then dreamed that I was in her
bedroom, and she told me that she was infectious again.
Dream (c). There was a gap in the sequence, although I did not
wake. The dream continued. She was crying terribly, and said,
'
This time it is absolutely hopeless ".
136 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan. -Feb. 1942
The dream as a whole made a great impression on me, first because
I recognised it as having the peculiar quality of other prophetic
dreams I have had, second, because I am not subject to nightmares,
and in fact cannot remember having had one for years. I told my
husband about it, and I told my maid.
The events following the dream were as below :
(a) Shortly after my daughter arrived at the new cottage, I went
to see her one afternoon. I found her looking quite well, but she
did not seem happy, and she had been resting as she said she had a
cold.
(b) Two days later she told me that she had seen the doctor who
was treating her, and he found that the disease was active again.
(c) On November 9th the third part of my first dream was repro-
duced in fact almost precisely. She was in bed and hysterical as I
had seen her, and said, " This time, if it gets any worse, it is hope-
less."
I realise that subconscious anxiety about my daughter's health
might explain the sequence, but there are one or two points about
it that are unusual, perhaps. It seems unlikely that I should dream
the words, "This time it is hopeless ". The patient is not often told
when the opinion of the doctor is so adverse, nor is a case of tuber-
culosis ever hopeless until the final stages are reached, which was,
of course, not the position in this instance. As you see, she qualified
the statement, in fact, by adding the words, " if it gets any worse ",
which I did not hear in my dream. The other peculiarity is the
division of the parts of the dream, corresponding to divisions in
time.
Please make use of this material in any way you see fit.
Yours faithfully,
Harriett R. Campbell.
Lady Campbell enclosed the following statement signed by Sir
Nigel Campbell and by her maid, who are mentioned above as hav-
ing been told of the dream-incidents before the corresponding events
occurred :
I can confirm the above statements, which are, to the best of my
recollection, in accordance with the facts as told me at the time.
The dreams were told me by Lady Campbell before the events
related took place.
Nigel Campbell,
Kathleen Walsh.
Jan. -Feb. 1942 Correspondence 137
CORRESPONDENCE
The Question of Survival
Sir,—In Part 165, Volume XLVI of Proceedings, Mr Abdy
Collins paid me the compliment of criticising at great length certain
opinions on the Possibility of Proof of Survival which I expressed
some ten years ago ; I trust that he will not think me discourteous
or unappreciative if I reply rather more briefly. I have two reasons
for not attempting to answer his criticisms in detail : (1) the paper
shortage and the cost of printing make it desirable to be as eco-
nomical of space as possible ; (2) it is clear to me that he has failed
completely to understand the trend of my reasoning, though I should
have thought that my final conclusion, if nothing else in the paper,
made this perfectly plain. Let me quote what I said. " A fairly
strong presumptive case might conceivably be made out were the
evidence to be forthcoming in a sufficiently perfect state, but owing
to the difficulties in estimating the probabilities of the various
alternatives, no argument as to its actual strength is likely to be
reached ; conviction will be, and seems likely to remain completely
subjective." Mr Collins appears to confuse conviction, which is
subjective, with proof, which is objective.
Mr Collins attacks with much vigour and at great length positions
which I never occupied, so I do not conceive it necessary for me to
defend them, but there are one or two points on which I must
touch very briefly.
The theme song of his review, if I may so put it, is that I seek
for a single crucial case. Now this is completely incorrect. I do
not hold and never have held the view that proof or, indeed, con-
viction of survival, as well as of many other hypotheses in psychical
Tesearch, can be based on a single case ; it must rest upon a cumu-
lative effect of various types of evidence, and I should have thought
that this was abundantly clear to any unprejudiced critic of my
paper. For example, after the paragraph quoted above I go on to
discuss the theoretical possibility of the crucial case in contrast with
the " presumptive case " for survival based on evidence, and I say
that I do not know of such a case, moreover that were one to be
found the proof based thereon could only be provisional.
Mr Collins does, indeed, make a somewhat grudging admission on
pages 362 and 363 of my attitude in this matter, and actually quotes
two or three passages which, to me at least, seem to leave no doubt
about it. Could I have said more than " first, whether any com-
bination of the various types of phenomenon would afford more
conclusive evidence than when taken separately ", or that " while
138 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1942
an isolated case may afford but slender support for the survival
theory, the whole bulk of cases taken together supplies evidence of
almost irresistible strength "?
For some obscure reason he makes the assertion that I limit the
multiplicity of types to two only ; if I took as an example an hypo-
thetical case where there were only two types. I can assure him
that this was purely for the sake of simplicity and from my dislike
of unnecessary verbosity. In my illustrations of the " faggot
"
theory I actually used three. Anyhow the use of the term "faggot
"
should have been sufficient, one does not call a bundle of two sticks
a faggot.
Finally, I think the matter may be set completely at rest by one
further quotation from my discussion of the faggot theory. On
page 121, I said, " the increase in the number of cases may, if they
are all different, largely increase the evidence for survival ".
Mr Collins adopts what seems to me to be a very odd theory. He
appears to think that the importance of a statement is somehow
related to the amount of space which the author allots to it ; for ex-
ample, on page 363 he says that I " give it very little space ", and
on page 370, "Mr Saltmarsh devotes one short paragraph only to it ".
I should like to make it quite clear that the meanings of my state-
ments bear no relation to the number of words which they contain.
If I say that the strength of the evidence is largely increased I
mean precisely that the strength of the evidence is largely increased,
nothing less and nothing more. My aim in writing has always been
to express my meaning in as short and unambiguous a manner as
possible, and not to wrap up my points in a mass of unnecessary
verbiage. May I say, without offence, that I wish that this principle
were more generally adopted?
In another place Mr Collins dismisses one of my points as an
" afterthought ". I wonder how he managed to arrive at so intimate
a knowledge of what my mental processes were when writing that
article ten years ago. Anyhow, I might recall to his mind the say-
ing that second thoughts are best.
He is very severe in his strictures on my use of mathematics. My
puny efforts in this direction were about on the level of a fourteen-
year-old schoolboy ; if he is annoyed by them, imagination boggles
at the spectacle of the paroxysms of rage which must sweep over
his soul when he reads some of the recent statistical investigations.
Personally, my regret is that I was unable to make greater use of
mathematics.
Mr Collins clearly does not approve of me or of my opinions, but
as he appears to include in his displeasure most of those engaged in
Jan. -Feb. 1942 Correspondence 139
psychical research, I am satisfied with the company in which I find
myself.
The gist of the paper is, of course, that so long as alternative
hypotheses are theoretically possible and while the relative proba-
bilities are not assessable with any degree of precision, owing to the
inapplicability of mathematical treatment, proof of survival, in the
sense that the probability of that hypothesis greatly exceeds that
of any possible alternative, cannot be attained on the data at present
available, and that conviction or otherwise must depend on sub-
jective estimates. The fact that there actually exists so wide a
divergence of opinion on the matter among equally competent and
honest students seems to me to be sufficient a posteriori grounds
for holding that this conclusion is justified.
In conclusion I must touch briefly on one further point. Mr
Collins several times complains that there is no evidence for the
alternative hypothesis which I suggest. Here again I fancy that he
is somewhat confused, and that what he really means is that there
is no independent evidence. Of course, independent evidence for an
explanatory hypothesis is not essential, though it may be desirable.
In the absence of a priori impossibility, the phenomenon for which
an hypothesis provides a logical explanation is itself evidence for it.
The only question which arises is as to the probability of that hypo-
thesis in relation to other possible alternatives and its antecedent
probability or improbability. There are, indeed, many instances
where, from the nature of the case, independent evidence is impos-
sible to obtain—for example, the hypothesis of the expanding uni-
verse. Alternatives may be found, but as there is only one universe
there is nowhere to look for independent evidence.
I must now turn to Mr West's letter in the recent issue of the
Journal, in which he criticises my paper on " Ambiguities in the
Question of Survival ", Proc., Part 165, Vol. XLVI. This merits
rather more detailed consideration.
(a) Mr West has completely ignored my main grounds for the con-
clusion that death involves a considerable change in the personality.
These are what might be called the medical evidence, also that from
abnormal psychology, such as dual personalities and a certain
amount from normal psychology, e.g. subliminal mentation and so
on. I might have added evidence from cerebral lesions and restitu-
tion of function, but as this is so highly technical I refrained from
doing so.
If it be admitted, as I think it must be, that our manifested per-
sonality is influenced to a very considerable extent by the condition
of our endocrine glands, by illness and fatigue, that a man's mani-
140 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1942
fested moral and intellectual character may be radically changed by
drugs or cerebral lesions, it appears to me to be an unavoidable con-
clusion that the physical organism contributes a considerable share
in the " me which I now recognise as myself ". The physical organ-
ism is destroyed at death and, presumably, its influence vanishes.
The only means by which the personality could be maintained un-
changed after the loss of one of the partners seemed to me to be
the provision of a substitute. I discussed the substitute hypothesis
and, though I admitted that it was logically tenable, I put forward
reasons which, in my opinion, made it difficult to accept. In that
respect only can I agree with Mr West that my conclusions are
based on my opinions, and I think I made it quite clear that this
was so.
Possibly—I might, in view of certain remarks which he makes,
say probably—Mr West holds some form of substitute hypothesis.
If this be so the issue between us is clear-cut. If he can produce
good evidence of the existence of such a substitute I am quite pre-
pared to reconsider my position, but until such evidence is forth-
coming it remains a purely explanatory hypothesis and must stand
or fall on the balance of probability, a balance which, in my opinion,
is heavily against it.
I did not, as Mr West states, base my conclusions about the change'
involved by death on evidence from mediumistic seances. I cited
this evidence solely for the purpose of showing that our sources of
knowledge concerning the characteristics of disembodied spirits, if
such there be, are inadequate for supplying full and accurate in-
formation.
I will not here enter into any controversy concerning the validity
or otherwise of the claims of the ostensible communicator in
mediumistic seances, as I feel sure that nothing of value would
emerge therefrom. The subject is so large, so complex and the
battlefield has been fought over so many times, that a small-scale
engagement, such as could be undertaken in the columns of the
Journal, could yield no results. I would, however, like to point out
that the phenomenon of Direct Voice seems to me to be a rather
unfortunate choice on Mr West's part. Though by no means an
enthusiast for the Variety Stage, I have heard sufficient of the
B.B.C. programmes to know that imitation of a voice is a com-
paratively common accomplishment. It is the matter, not the
manner which counts most. I admit, of course, that a really con-
vincing imitation of the voice would afford collateral evidence of
identity.
But I am inclined to be rather sceptical as regards the opinions of
Jan. -Fee. 1942 Correspondence HI
sitters as to the verisimilitude of the Direct Voice ; the conditions
of a seance are, as a rule, not favourable to cold, unbiased judge-
ment and, in particular, when a trumpet is used and some amount
of distortion naturally to be expected, the allowance made for that
distortion is, I should say, liable to be far too generous.
However, as my case does not rest upon these phenomena, it does
not seem necessary to discuss the matter any further.
(b) I do not know of any valid grounds for assuming, as Mr West
does, that in dream the psychical is functioning independently of
the physical organism ; in fact all the evidence seems to support
the opposite view. I must protest against the statement which he
makes that I assume that " consciousness is entirely dependent
upon the activities of the physical brain ". I do nothing of the sort.
The whole tenour of my argument is that the mind, which is the
seat of consciousness, is a joint affair in which both psychical and
physical play a part. I do not deny consciousness to the pure
psyche ; all I say is that " we do not know, even, whether it is con-
scious in the sense in which we speak of consciousness " (page 353).
Of course, if Mr West is in the position to examine " psychical
entities themselves in order to find out what are the characteristics
of the purely psychical ", it would be an excellent thing if he would
do so and make known his discoveries, but I do not quite see where
he is to find such entities, pure and unalloyed, or how the examina-
tion is to be made.
I could wish that my critics would not put into my mouth state-
ments which I did not make. Mr West says that I
<;
contend that
the synthesis of psychical and physical ... is analogous to ... a
single chemical compound ". What I actually said was :
" We do
not know the mode of combination, whether it is analogous to a
mixture or a chemical compound " (page 353). I discuss each
alternative. He points out quite rightly that the analogy is not
perfect. But analogies never are perfect ; if they were the two
cases would be identical, not analogous.
(c) Mr West has misunderstood my references to time. The ques-
tion of survival as I formulated it assumes a single time sequence ;
survival is a matter of " before and after " an event in that sequence.
It seems clear to me that if this assumption be disallowed—and I
consider that there are grounds for disallowing it—the question of
survival is rendered ambiguous. For example, if there should be a
second dimension of time, I suppose that we could survive in one
direction and perish utterly in the other, our existence could persist
in " thwart-ships " time even if it ceased in " fore and aft " time.
Mr West says, " the existence of a particular personality does not
142 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1942
depend upon its having a time with an irreversible direction ". I
never said that it did, but I find it very difficult to imagine what a
personality and what its conditions of existence would be like if its
time were to go about in all directions. The quest for such a per-
sonality seems to me as hopeless as looking for an unimaginable
needle in an inconceivable haystack.
(d) I do not think that it is necessary to comment on this, it is
merely the conclusion which Mr West draws from the opinions which
he has expressed in the preceding paragraphs, and I have given
some of my reasons for holding that those opinions are erroneous.
I would like to point out that if, as he admits, there is a theo-
retical possibility " that death involves change in the personality,
some amount of ambiguity in the question of survival is bound to
exist until we know with accuracy what that change is.
The final difference between Mr West and myself boils down to
this : he holds, apparently with complete conviction, that the per-
sonality, as manifested in this life, will survive bodily death and
that it will persist almost unaltered in spite of the absence of the
physical organism, whereas I hold that there is a balance of prob-
ability—how large a balance I am not prepared to say—that the
psychical element in personality is not entirely destroyed by death,
though I have no means of knowing what that psychical element
may be like.
He pays me the compliment that my paper " is no doubt a perfect
piece of logic ". I would like to point out, however, that I ventured
the opinion that "we do not know whether the laws of logic have
any jurisdiction beyond the frontiers of our own world ". My inten-
tion in this paper was to attempt to examine the situation as far as
logical analysis would carry me ; what lies beyond that is the con-
cern of other faculties. It is not only Hitler who possesses intuition,
but, unlike him, I prefer to retain my intuitions for strictly private
consumption and not to permit them to become public nuisances.
Yours, etc.,
H. F. Saltmarsh.
Sir,—In Mr Saltmarsh's paper (Part 165, Vol. xlvi, Proceed-
ings), dealing with ambiguities of survival, the following definition
is given of what survival of death is supposed to mean for most
people. " If there be a behaviour-pattern of that characteristic
kind which is commonly called man and it undergoes the change
known as physical death at a certain date in the normal time-
sequence, will there be, at a later date in the same time-sequence,
a behaviour-pattern, exhibiting a sufficient number of human char-
Jan.-Feb. 1942 Correspondence 143
acteristics to be considered a personality, which is historically
continuous with that man? "
Whether or not this is what most people mean by survival, it is
not at all clear to me why reality should conform to it ; for it
appears to assume that time, as we know it, must necessarily be a
feature of another life. One wants to know, in any case, what Mr
Saltmarsh means by " later in the same time-sequence ". Does he
mean that the surviving person is necessarily still living in our
time : or does he mean that the surviving person, though no longer
living in our time, must manifest himself to us, with his habitual
characteristics, at a later date in our time, if we are to admit that
he " still " exists? Here I venture to suggest that Mr Saltmarsh
has raised more ambiguity than he has laid. How could a person
alive, but not in time (or not in time as we know it), manifest him-
self to us except by re-entering time as a co-operator with, and
communicator through, some living person? But that is a re-
appearance in time and does not clear up the difficulty about what
is meant by his " still " existing non-temporally at a later date in
our time.
Again, the mention of historical continuity as a test of self-
identity breaks down unless the surviving person is still in our
time. What does historical continuity mean if he is not? Because
Mr Saltmarsh uses the test of historical continuity, I assume that
he means that survival of death involves continued existence in
our time. What justification has he for making this assumption?
E.S.P., now established beyond all reasonable doubt, does not
appear to be, in essence, either a temporal or spatial process ; and
I question very much whether it is compatible even with the view
that space and time are self-existing realities. It would be interest-
ing, and I think, profitable if Mr Saltmarsh or someone else would
put forward a view of E.S.P showing it to be reasonably compatible
with this latter theory. The point is crucial. To my mind it looks
very much as if E.S.P. is going to involve us in something very
like the Kantian view of space and time, namely that they are
" forms of our sensibility " and not self-existing realities at all. If
this latter is the case, there seems little likelihood that we should
carry them over with us to another world, since they would be
bound up with the psycho-physical machinery producing our
present perceptions.
Again, if this view is true, there is something supra-temporal in
us already, and immortality of some kind would appear to be a
necessary corollary, since no meaning could be attached either to
the beginning or cessation of an existence which is not in time.
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1942
A further possibility is that if space and time are " forms of our
sensibility ", they need not be the only forms. An alteration of
the personality might result in the creation of something different
from space and time, yet having a family resemblance to them.
The whole matter, I suggest, is at present entirely fluid.
Yours faithfully,
G. N. M. Tyrrell.
Sir,—I hesitate to enter the field of controversy and challenge
my friend Mr Saltmarsh on account of his very able paper on
"Ambiguity in the Question of Survival " (Proceedings, Sept. 1941).
It is not an easy task because his lucidity of style, firm handling of
logic, and transparent sincerity constitute a massive block of con-
vincing power which is almost irresistible. But his main argument
seems to rest on an assumption of the relation between soul and
body which is very doubtful, and which, so far as I can see, must
in the end seriously handicap psychical research.
I will therefore try to elucidate this point as briefly as possible
in order to draw attention to the fact that all investigation con-
cerning the human psyche and its activities must finally reach a
stage where we have to consider the problem which since early
days engaged philosophy, i.e. the enigma of the soul.
In opening his main argument Saltmarsh gives the dictum : "we
have no knowledge of the pure psychical apart from the physical."
Is that really so? In such a case we would hardly be entitled to
use the definite terms soul or psyche, because the meaning remains
utterly obscure. The tendency in modern times to avoid speaking
of a soul in man is partly based on a materialistically tinted idea
that we only know about life of the soul through its connection
with a body, and it has brought us to' employ a substitute we label
" mind " which Saltmarsh persistently uses. J. S. Mill said mind
" was the mysterious something which feels and thinks ". This
term, which originally was connected with memory, has under the
pressure of physical aspects been given much wider meaning and
closer contact with the brain. It is, however, nothing but a con-
venient fiction which is misleading, because the mind is no indi-
vidual organ or entity, but a term used to indicate a composite
expression of interaction between soul and body, a result of com-
bination between the parts that constitute our personality.
Saltmarsh further states that " the most intimate knowledge to
which we ever attain of our conscious states is mediated through
our brain ". The brain seems, however, to constitute nothing else
than a telegraphic exchange, as Henri Bergson said, and it is
Jan.-Feb. 1942 Correspondence 145
neither the seat of consciousness nor of thought or memory. Even
a cautious brain-physiologist like Sherrington shares this view.
The brain has been dethroned from its lofty position and endowed
with the humbler task to serve as a means of communication for a
limited number of impressions and expressions.
The consciousness of existence, our awareness of being alive, to
use the Cartesian formula, is not dependent on our brain. The
meaning of thought, has no physiological correlate. Even people
who to a great extent lack means of contact through the senses
may show a vitality which is astounding. Our inner life, dreams,
contemplations and religious feeling, intuition and creative imagina-
tion need no interference from the brain to become conscious to
ourselves ; on the contrary, psychic events bear out that they enter
the consciousness at moments when brain activity is low. The
brain is set in motion whenever consciousness contacts the exterior
world. The subtle attraction between people at first meeting, or
even at distance from each other, without sensory contact, is no
original result of brain-activity. Occurrences outside the frame of
time need no use of brain. I think Wundt was the first to prove
that the brain remains at rest during the short moment of a choice,
but starts functioning when it has been taken.
It is in any case not proved that Saltmarsh's basic argument is
incontestable. It is quite true that the Mystics had great difficulty
in transcribing visions, but their consciousness of the experiences
possessed a force that influenced vast regions and epochs.
The impression we receive from modern scientific research
renders an entirely new picture of the relation between soul and
body than the one which has prevailed among people in general,
and one understands that the Nestor of physicists in our day, Max
Planck, the originator of the Quantum Theory, could support the
opinion that " the new physics offers a contribution to the old
metaphysical problem of the relationship between body and soul ".
When solid matter has been transformed into pure energy and
movement of waves in magnetic fields, and the brain is observed
functioning through the influence of operating wave-bundles that
flit across the cortex, then we approach the view that a soul acts
on a body by means of radiations which either through the brain
or otherwise set the body and its organs in motion. It is of interest
to note that F. W. Myers already in 1888 embraced the wave-
theory :
" We are learning to consider the human organism as a
practically infinite complex of interacting vibrations " {Proceed-
ings, Vol. 5, p. 526).
The question regarding survival takes on another aspect under
146 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb, 1942
such conditions. We become inclined to say that man is a soul,
not that he has a soul. The body becomes a non-material equip-
ment and the brain and the Active mind disconnected from the
sensation of consciousness. Some part of Salt-marsh's reasoning
falls to the ground if this view holds good.
It means that the sensation of consciousness ever remains al-
though physical and psychical qualities of the individual change.
This pure timeless consciousness is in itself unchangeable, but its
contents, its impressions of the changing self, may vary. I find
the " me which I now recognise as myself" very different from
an earlier self. People also differ very widely as to what they think
constitutes their " me ". That is a matter of opinions which often
are erroneous. Some of us would not consider a perishable body
to be part of the " me ", and many act in life upon this conviction.
It is, after all, very difficult to judge what should be accepted as
the " me ". The Delphic Oracle warned :
" Know Thyself", but
how many of us have attained it ? We know only little about our-
selves and others less. Saltmarsh's definition becomes ambiguous.
What else shall survive except pure consciousness of being if
bodily characteristics and earthly influences on the soul become
discarded? The answer would be that unchanged original, pre-
natal features of soul and acquired experiences remain as they
belong wholly to the soul. In most cases they would become recog-
nisable after departure from this place, but not always, and a
departed soul may develop in another life, abolishing some char-
acteristics we found typical.
The problem becomes still more complicated if we accept the
view of Neo-Platonists, Erigena, certain Mystics and possibly St
Paul, that the " me which I now recognise as myself " is only a part
of my real self, and that the " I ", the earthly fragment, the soul,
may after death rejoin the spirit, the spark divine, of which " I
"
become conscious after life on earth has spent its course. Modern
psychical research rather approaches this view as we rightly con-
ceive that " superconscious " influences effect our conscious-
ness.
We evidently reach the conclusion that proofs of survival based
on recognition of individual characteristics are far from certain.
But when recollections of incidents which are unknown to the
receiver arrive from the beyond and are verified then proof is at
hand, and such proofs are available.
When we discuss the question of survival we must first ascertain
what we mean with the terms we use or matters become confused.
In this respect I fully agree with Saltmarsh, and he has added
Jan.-Feb. 1942 Reviews 147
another service to the many he has rendered to our work through
pointing out ambiguities which he wishes to eliminate. Even if
one disagrees with some of his assertions, one fully recognises the
effort to bring clarity and raise the standard of debate to a level
where results may be harvested.
Yours faithfully,
Erik Palmstierna.
Jan. 1942.
REVIEW
The Scientific Claims of Psychical Research. By the late Captain
C. H. B. Gowan, R.N. The Hibbert Journal, Vol. XL, No. 1.
Oct. 1941.
Science has now reached a position from which the irreducible
facts of existence are seen on the one hand as what the layman calls
energy and the physicist describes as " action ", and on the other
hand as the imponderable activity which gives rise to the concept of
mind. The late Captain Gowan's essay points to the literal " anni-
hilation " of matter as having necessitated a new outlook. " Thence-
forward the way lay clear for the re-establishment of Idealism—and
an idealism founded upon established fact." For the evidence that
compels a realisation of the place of mental action in our total world
of actuality has also been springing up as a result of scientific method,
in psychology (as McDougall untiringly pointed out) and in psychical
research. The new outlook, however, has to get past the resistances
of the new orthodoxy which no longer persecutes, but ignores.
The absurdity is emphasised of a situation in which science can
officially disregard the evidence which accredited scientists accept.
" This, though absurd enough, is a serious matter ; for it is causing
a bottle-neck which at a critical period in human history is' holding
up the co-ordination and diffusion of knowledge of vital importance."
The suggestion is made that a juridical authority might be appointed
to examine and pronounce upon the testimony of psychical research ;
but it is not easy to see what accepted authority would do the
appointing. Philosophers may eventually be able to drive home the
issue, and mention is made of the president's and Professor Broad's
" well-nigh perfect prolegomena to the subject " in the issues of
Philosophy for Oct. 1940 and Oct. 1938. But as with science, official
philosophy tends to turn an officially vacuous eye upon the exciting
material at its hand. What is required from the world of scientific
thought is " no mere grudging admission " but " a frank recognition
of the fundamental importance " of the findings of psychical re-
148 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Jan.-Feb. 1942
search. A concluding suggestion is made that " according to the
ancient charter of its foundation, as well as from the nature of
some of its own earliest researches, the Royal Society itself would
seem to be the most appropriate body to perform this belated act of
justice and wisdom."
K. R.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only ". The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulation amongst Members and Associates only
March-April 1942
CONTENTS
Vol. XXXII—No. 582-583
PAGE ,
- 150
- I50
.-
151
- 152
- 154
. - - - 154
- ,
" " 154
New Members -
Meetings of the Council -
Annual General Meeting
Private Meetings -
"Obituary : The Countess of Balfour
A memorial to Oliver Gatty
Correspondence -
NOTICE OF MEETING
A GENERAL MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
WILL BE HELD AT
Manson House, 26 Portland Place, W. i
on Friday, 1 May 1942, at 5.30 p.m.
THE
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS WILL BE DELIVERED
by Dr. R. H. THOULESS.
It is hoped that a large number of Members and Associates uill be able to
attend the Meeting. Visitors also are cordially invitee!.
Journal of Society for Psychical Research MARCH-APRIL 1942
NEW MEMBERS
Ainger, Rev. J. A., York House, Gainsborough Street, Sudbury, Suffolk.
Birch, Mrs, 109 Lime Grove, Ruislip, Middx.
Crowe, Miss N., 2 Lownds Avenue, Bromley, Kent.
Hemming, A. E., Treloyhan, Hemsby, nr. Great Yarmouth, Norfolk.
Mclndoe, Miss H., M.A., 157 Invergyle Drive, Glasgow, S.W. 2.
Mossman, O. W., Westminster Bank House, Headington, Oxford.
Slatopolsky, I. L., St Bernard, Eye Road, Newark, Peterborough.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 385th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 25 February 1942, at 2.30 p.m., Mr
VV. H. Salter in the Chair. There were also present : Sir Lawrence
Jones, Bart., the Hon Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Miss I. Newton,
Mr G. Redmayne and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also Mr Kenneth Richmond,
Editor of the Journal, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct. Four new Members were elected. Their names and ad-
dresses are given above.
The 386th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C, after the Annual General Meeting, Mr. W. H. Salter
in the Chair. There were also present : Miss I. Newton, Mr G. Red-
mayne and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant
Secretary.
Professor R. H. Thouless was elected President for the year 1942- 1943.
Mr W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Secretary, Admiral the Hon.
A. C. Strutt, R.N., Hon. Treasurer, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh, Deputy Hon.
Treasurer, and Mrs W. H. Salter, Hon. Editor of Proceedings.
Committees were elected as follows : _
Committee of Reference and Publication, for the period of the War : The
President, Professor C. D. Broad, Dr T. W. Mitchell, Professor H. H.
Price, and the Hon. Editor of Proceedings.
House and Finance Committee : Mr G. W. Lambert, Miss I. New-
ton, Mr W. H. Salter, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh and Admiral the Hon. A. C.
Strutt.
Library Committee : Professor E. R. Dodds, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart.,
Miss I. Newton, and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Corresponding Members and Hon. Associates were elected for the year
1 942- 1 943 as follows :
Corresponding Members : President Nicholas M. Butler, Dr Max
Dessoir, Dr George H. Hyslop, Professor P. Janet, Dr C. G. Jung, Count
Carl von Klinckowstroem, M. Maurice Maeterlinck, Dr Gardner Murphy,
Professor T. K. Oesterreich, Dr J. B. Rhine, Dr R. Tischner and Mr
C. Vett.
Honorary Associates : Miss H. Carruthers, Miss H. A. Dallas, Mr
J. Arthur Hill, Professor R. F. A. Hoernle, the Rev. W. S. Irving, Dr Eva
Morton, Mr Kenneth Richmond, Professor C, M. Sage, Mr G. H.
MARCH-APRiL 1942 Annual General Meeting
Spinney, Dr A. Tanagras, Dr W. H. Tenhaeff, Professor R. H. Thouless,
Miss Nea Walker and Dr Th. Wereide.
The 387th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on- Wednesday, 25 March 1942, at 3 p.m., The Hon.
Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There were also present :
Sir Ernest Bennett, Sir Robert Gower, Miss Ina Jephson, Miss I. Newton
and Mr W. H. Salter ; also Mr Kenneth Richmond, Editor of the Journal,
and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant Secretary.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were read and
signed as correct. Three new Members were elected. Their names and
addresses are given above.
The following co-optations were renewed for the year 1942- 1943 :
Professor W. Macneile Dixon, Sir Robert Gower, Mr Gerald Heard,
Miss Isabel Newton, Mr Geoffrey Redmayne, Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell and
Miss Nea Walker.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was held at
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1, on Wednesday, 25 February 1942,
at 3 p.m., The Hon Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair.
The following Members were present : Lady Blackwell, Mr H. S.
Collins, Miss Corry, Dr E. J. Dingwall, Miss Fanshawe, Mrs Oliver
Gatty, Mrs K. M. Goldney, Mrs Frank Heywood, Mr A. D. Howell-
Smith, Mr S. G. Howell-Smith, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr Shane
Leslie, Miss I. Newton, Mrs Norman, Mr G. Redmayne, Miss Reutiner,
Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs Tayleur, Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ; and Captain
N. M. Parsons (Associate) and Mr Kenneth Richmond (Hon Associate).
The Hon Secretary having read the Notice convening the Meeting,
presented the accounts, together with the Report, and in the absence of
the Hon Treasurer read the following report from him :
The Accounts of the Society up to 31 December 1941 might be con-
sidered satisfactory in the difficult circumstances. The General Fund
ended the year with practically the same balance in hand as it had at the
beginning, thanks to assistance received from the Endowment Fund. This
Fund, besides assisting the General Fund, had been able to increase its
investments by £200.
The prospects for 1942, however, were not so bright. The estimated
income of the General Fund would be able to meet all current expenditure
with the exception of printing and postage, and leave a balance for that
item of only about £~o. The maximum assistance which the Endowment
Fund would be able to give will be roughly £250, thus bringing the total
sum available for printing up to £320, some £40 less than was spent last
year. Unless, therefore, the publication of Proceedings was considerably
reduced—a course which is considered to be very undesirable—it might
become necessary to trench upon reserves. However, as things looked
at the time, the inYoad would be small and it might turn out to be un-
necessary.
The Chairman moved the adoption of the Annual Report and the
Journal of Society for Psychical Research march-april 1942
Accounts of the Society, which had already been circulated in the January-
February Journal. This resolution was seconded by Miss Newton, and
carried unanimously.
A discussion followed, in which several members took part.
Mrs Gatty spoke of the desirability of getting more publicity for our
activities in the ordinary Press ; she felt that the public wanted general
information on our subject.
Dr Dingwall said this point had often been raised. Psychical Research
was entering a new phase. The Society at the moment was the only
body in this country likely to deal with the scientific aspect of psychical
research, and the Society's work on the statistical side was, he. knew,
attracting much attention from scientists, but the amount of public
interest in this side of S.P.R. work, which he thought the most important,
was almost nil. The Society could not supply newspapers with chatty
stories—we could supply them with thrilling material but it was not the
kind of thing the public wanted. If some of our statistical work were
put into popular language he thought it would have a considerable effect.
Mr Tyrrell said he had got in touch with the Editor of Time and Tide
with regard to E.S.P., but their reply was that the subject was far too
heavy for them. He did not see how one is to deal with E.S.P. for the
average popular reader. Dr Dingwall agreed with Mr Tyrrell.
The Chairman announced that there were no candidates for election
to membership of the Council other than the six members who retired by
rotation. On the proposal of Mr Salter, seconded by Mr Howell-Smith,
the following six members were accordingly unanimously elected : The
Rt Hon The Earl of Balfour, Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P., Sir .Lawrence
Jones, Bart, Mr H. F. Saltmarsh, Mr S. G. Soal and the Rev C. Drayton v
Thomas.
Messrs Miall, Savage, Avery & Co were re-elected Auditors for the
forthcoming year.
PRIVATE MEETINGS
The 173rd Private Meeting of the Society was held in the" Society's
Library on Wednesday, 25 February 1942, after the Annual General
Meeting, The Hon. Mrs. Alfred Lyttelton in the Chair.
Mr Richmond spoke on the work of the Precognition Committee
(Blennerhassett Benefaction), and described some results of experimental
work on precognition by a group of percipients. About a dozen percipi-
ents, in the same room, recorded by writing or drawing, during a silent
period of ten minutes, whatever images of single concrete objects happened
to arise spontaneously in their minds, the suggested aim being that they
should record precognitive impressions of objects which were presently to
be shown to them in the form of drawings. The technique linked up with
Mr Carington's, described by him in Experiments on the Paranormal Cogni-
tion of Drawings (Proc, Part 164, June 1941), and the Committee had had
the advantage of Mr Carington's help both in devising and in assessing
the results of the present experiments.
At the end of each ten minutes' period a random selection was made of
three folded slips from among a number of similar slips, each bearing
MARCH-APRIL 1 942 Private Meetings 153
the name of some object. The experimenter then made a rapid drawing
of each of the three objects thus selected and showed the drawings to the
percipients. The unused slips were later returned, unseen by the experi-
menter or the percipients, to Mr Carington who had supplied the original
packet of slips and alone knew what was written upon those that remained
unused.
As a result of the first '
full-dress '
experiment, made at the S.P.R.
Rooms, Mr. Carington computed the hits on the precognition-targets
as representing odds of over 1000 to i against chance. But inferences
from this figure were modified by the discovery that a significant propor-
tion of hits had also been made on the '
targets '
written upon the unused
slips, and represented odds of about 500 to 1 against chance.
A repetition of the experiment, about a month later and with a few
changes in the list of percipients, showed a surprising result. On com-
putation, the hits on the precognition-targets were found to be slightly
below chance expectation—not to r significant extent—while the hits on
the unused slips had soared to odds against chance of over 10,000 to 1.
It was as though the group had stampeded away from the aim suggested
to them and had made a united rush for another paranormal outlet which
had been found open in the earlier experiment. It had to be borne in
mind that in computing these results the odds were calculated from a
relatively small number of impressions recorded by the percipients—about
600 in the two experiments ; but even so, chance fluctuations seemed
unlikely to have risen to such a level as the figures would indicate.
The question of cross-telepathy between the percipients had also to
be considered : inspection showed a large number of correspondences
between the percipients' images, some of the images, also, having occurred
to three or four percipients, but further calculation was needed to decide
whether these effects were significant. *Mr Richmond mentioned several
cases suggesting correspondence of idea and mental process between
percipients : in one instance, a percipient had drawn a Viking's helmet,
and so named it in writing. A little later she drew a horn and wrote
beside it :
" Drinking horn—Vikings again! " Another percipient drew a
curved object which at first he labelled " Comet " ; but presently, within
the ten minutes' period, he had an impulse to revert to this image and to
add these words beside his drawing :
" Later—horn, Viking's helmet."
In judging the improbability of all such correspondences, and their
consequent evidential value, it was essential to have a working idea of the
frequency with which a given image might be expected to turn up as a
spontaneous impression in experiments of this kind. Mr Carington's new
Catalogue of observed frequencies supplied a much needed measuring scale,
so that a given correspondence was no longer a unit ' about the size of a lump
of chalk ', but could be graded according to the known approximate rarity-
value of the image concerned.
The 174th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Library on Wednesday, 25 March 1942, at 3.30 p.m., Sir Ernest Bennett
in the Chair.
A paper entitled " A Psycho-therapist's View of Telepathy and Medium-
ship " was read by Dr H. J. Ehrenwald.
i
54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research march-april 1942
OBITUARY
We learn with deep regret of the death on 28 March of the Countess of
Balfour, and tender our sincere sympathy, on behalf of the Society to
Lord Balfour and his family in their bereavement.
A MEMORIAL TO OLIVER GATTY
By the death of Oliver Gatty, through injuries received while engaged
on experimental work for the defence of this country, the Society lost the
most brilliant of its younger workers, and the country one of the most
brilliant of the younger generation of scientists. To provide a fitting
memorial a University Studentship is being endowed at Cambridge, the
object being " to give an opportunity to scientists of any nationality
working in any branch of Science to carry on their work for a year in the
Department of Colloid Science at Cambridge, provided that in this work
Physics was being used to help Biological Research, or Biology was helping
Physical Research." Oliver Gatty 's own work was especially devoted to
bridging the gap between Biology and Physics, a matter bearing closely
on many of the problems of Psychical Research.
Many of our Members may wish to avail themselves of this opportunity
to pay their tribute to the memory of a man who was a most generous
supporter of the Society. Contributions may be paid to the Treasurer
of the University, University Offices, Cambridge, either by a capital gift
or by a seven-year covenant, of which forms can be obtained from our
Assistant Secretary, 31 Tavistock Square.
CORRESPONDENCE
The Question of Survival
Sir, —I am really much gratified by the kindly and constructive criticism
contained in the letters from Mr Tyrrell and Baron Palmstierna in your
Jan. -Feb. issue ;
they are exactly the sort of comment which I hoped that
my paper might elicit. It is by free discussion only that the position can
be clarified.
Mr Tyrrell, after quoting the formula which I put forward as being
what " I suggest conveys the meaning which most people intend "
(p. 349)
when they speak of survival, says, "it is not clear to me why reality
should conform to it." This is exactly my own position—the object of
my paper was to show that reality probably does not conform to it or, at
least, that so much ambiguity is embodied that we cannot know for certain
that it does conform. He further says that I have raised more ambiguity
than I have laid." Actually my purpose was primarily to disclose
ambiguities ; I had little hope of being able to resolve them to any
extent.
I think that Mr Tyrrell is under some misapprehension as to my attitude.
I did not put forward the formula as an expression of what I believe to
be the case but rather as an " Aunt Sally " to be knocked down. I do not
assume, nor do I believe, that survival involves a continuation of existence
in our time, in fact, in face of many of the phenomena with which psychical
MARCH-APRIL 1 942 Correspondence 155
research deals, also some of the problems raised by modern physics, I
take the opposite view. What I said was that I thought that the usual idea
of survival implied something of the sort of thing which I tried to describe
in my formula.
I am inclined to agree with Mr Tyrrell in what he says about time and
space, though I doubt whether the Kantian view can be maintained
without considerable modification.
I would like to point out, however, that if the surviving entity be
timeless, it can hardly be conscious in the sense in which we use that
term. Consciousness, as we know it, involves a constant How, it is the
changes in state and content which constitute it ; a perfectly static state
would seem to be equivalent to unconsciousness.
Mr Tyrrell has admirably emphasised one aspect of the matter to
which, perhaps, I did not devote sufficient attention, though I did mention
it, and I am grateful to him for doing so.
Finally, I agree completely with him when he says, " The whole
matter ... is at present entirely fluid." My main purpose was to call
attention to this fluidity.
I am also very grateful to Baron Palmstierna, not only for his flattering
references to my work, but also for the elucidation which he brings
to certain points. I do not think that any controversy is likely to
arise between us as I believe that our views are largely parallel. What
I hope for is the clarification of my opinions under the impact of his
comments.
He says, for example, " mind is no individual organ or entity, but a
term used to indicate a composite expression of interaction between
soul and body, a result of combination between the parts which constitute
one personality ". This is precisely what I intended to convey when I
said (page 353)
" mind is a joint affair of the physical and psychical ",
though I did not, perhaps, express my meaning with as great clearness
as he does.
I am certainly inclined to accept as at least partially true the theory
that the brain is, as Bergson held, a sort of telephone exchange, but it is
surely more than this. It not only transmits, it also alters and distorts,
it adds and subtracts. The evidence from cerebral lesions appears
conclusive on this point.
If this be so, there seems to me to be no escape from the conclusion
that the characteristics of the separated factors or elements are probably,
to some extent at least, unlike those of the combination. We have consider-
able knowledge about the combination, i.e. the mind of a living man, also
about the physical organism, but we are not in the same fortunate position
as regards the other factor, viz., the pure psyche.
It may be that my statement that " we have no knowledge of the pure
psychical apart from the physical " was too sweeping and needs qualifica-
tion, but I was writing from the point of view of the psychical researcher
who is limited by language and logical form and has to rely on objective
evidence. The kind of knowledge to which I refer is that which can be
communicated to others by means of plain, bald prose. I do not doubt
that the mystics and the inspired poets possess some knowledge of a totally
different kind, but it does not lend itself to expression in ordinary logical
Journal of Society for Psyc/iical Research march-april 1942
form, the meaning is conveyed more in the way that it is in music. I
imagine, for instance, that were a precis of Wordsworth's Intimations of
Immortality to be rendered in the best civil service style something which
many find in the original would be missing. Also, it seems probable to
me that the ordinary, non-mystical man may sometimes have fleeting
glimpses of such knowledge, though I think that it is more of an emotional
than of a cognitional nature. What I doubt is whether from such know-
ledge, combined with which he can gather from the poets and mystics,
he will be able to construct any picture of the pure psychical uncombined
with a physical organism. Anyhow, so far as I knpw, no one has yet
succeeded in producing a convincing picture, all that we get offered to us
are slightly etherealised versions of man as we know him. As St John
says, " It doth not yet appear what we shall be."
I gather, however, that there is really very little difference between
Baron Palmstierna's views and my own. He says " we know very little
of ourselves and of others less." Moreover, if the view of the Neo-
platonists and others that " the me which I now recognise as myself
"
is only a part of my real self—a view to which I subscribed when I said
on page 356 that " it is only a fragment of the total me "—the problem,
as he truly says, " becomes still more complicated."
My whole object was to bring into clearer light these complications
and the ambiguities involved in the ordinary conception of survival, and
I am very grateful to these two critics for having underlined certain points
which I had, perhaps, insufficiently stressed.—Yours faithfully,
H. F. Saltmarsh.
[Further Correspondence, and certain other contributions, are held over
until a later issue of the Journal. Members will appreciate the need for
restriction of space to which the present issue bears witness, and are asked
to help in maintaining the balance between different subjects of interest
by making their own communications to the Journal as succinct as possible.
—Ed.]
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private nature
of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made without the
previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of the Journal
in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been contributed on the
definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated on the cover, issued " For
private circulation among Members and Associates only." The Council
hope that all Members and Associates will continue to co-operate with
them in maintaining this privacy.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulation amongst Members and Associates only
May-June 1942 Vol. XXXII—No. 584-585
CONTENTS
PAGE
New Members - -- -- - -157
General Meeting - - - - - - - -157
Case : Some Evidence of Precognition by Communicators - 158
Correspondence - - - - - - - -159
Reviews - - - - - - - - -"-162
NEW MEMBERS
(Elected 4 May 1942)
Cross, Major J. K. C, Letcombe Manor, Wantage, Berks.
Davies, J. R. A., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., The Grand Hotel, Tynemouth,
Northumberland.
Kidner, Mrs, The Old Rectory, Grafton- Underwood, nr. Kettering.
Wiesner, Dr B. P., 9 Weymouth Street, Portland Place, London, W. 1.
(Elected 27 May 1942)
Goold-Adams, Mrs, Two Yews, Radnage, High Wycombe, Bucks.
Parsons, D. A. H., M.Sc, 20 Barter Street, London, W.C. 1.
GENERAL MEETING
The 1 88th General Meeting of the Society was held at Manson House,
26 Portland Place, London, W. 1, on Friday, 1 May 1942, at 5.30 p.m.,
when Dr R. H. Thouless gave his Presidential Address. The Address
will be published in Proceedings.
The Society's Rooms will be closed from 31 July to 14 September
journal of Society for Psychical Research may-june i 942
CASE : SOME EVIDENCE OF PRECOGNITION BY
COMMUNICATORS
The following extracts from the record of a long series of communications
have been contributed by Miss E. B. Gibbes. The extracts are selected
as referring precognitively to a single episode, the wounding and recovery
of Miss Gibbes' nephew ; his deceased mother is the purporting
communicator in scripts obtained by Miss Geraldine Cummins, who was
in Ireland at the time. His deceased uncle is the communicator in two
earlier messages, one obtained by Miss Cummins and the other by Mrs
Taylor. Miss Gibbes explains the family names and relationships about
which the reader will need to be informed, in the first paragraph that
follows ; her ensuing record of dated events explains itself.
My sister-in-law, who died on 16 July 1941, was devoted to her two
sons, and these extracts conclude with a letter from one of them, Nigel,
confirming what she wrote through Geraldine Cummins. Peggy is his
young wife. Harold was her favourite brother who died some years ago.
Nigel is the son in question, and Hilda is the name of my sister-in-law. 1
There have been other prophecies in connection with the death of Hilda
given through other mediums some years ago which all came true, notably
that she would die before Nigel's return from abroad. My brother F.
was Nigel's uncle.
The following was the first intimation of what has proved to be an
interesting example of pre-vision. Harold, writing through Geraldine
on October 31s? 1941, remarks that Hilda had what he " could only call a
nightmare—a conviction that something bad had happened to Nigel ..."
On Nov. yth, writing through G., Hilda remarks : "... They keep
telling me Nigel is all right but I had such a fear about him ..."
This script was received by me on 13th. In order to calm her mind,
I sent G. a telegram on Nov. 14/// saying " Please reassure Hilda im-
mediately. Nigel cables each week that he is well. ..." (Peggy had
written that she had had several cables to this effect.)
On Nov. 14?//, G., after reading aloud my wire, wrote the following
extract, purporting to come from Hilda: "Tell Bea I am very grateful
to her for her wire. It means so much to me that my darling Ni is well.
I had such bad dreams about him. I dreamt that he was wounded, that
he lay out on a battlefield in great pain. That Peggy said he was missing,
That he did lose an arm or a leg. I can scarcely bear thinking about
it and now you tell me it is all fancy—that my darling is well. . .
."
On Dec. 2nd, 1941, Hilda purported to write the following few lines
through Geraldine. " Hilda. Will you tell Bea that I was right and she
made a mistake—my poor darling Ni, he has been wounded or was I
dreaming? No, No, it was real. But tell Bea I am happy about him for
it wasn't or didn't seem as bad as I thought. . .
."
On Dec. \th, Peggy wrote : "I have just this moment received this
cable from Nigel " Wounded in leg, nothing serious. Now in base
Hospital ..."
1
This, the actual name, is printed in place of a family nickname in the scripts
that follow, for the sake of simplicity.
MAY-JUNE 1942 Correspondence l
59
On Dec. 20th Peggy wrote :
" I have had letters from- Nigel saying he
has a broken leg, broken ear drum and has had two operations to remove
shrapnel from his legs and he was burnt about the face. ..."
Note. It will be observed that Hilda (or Geraldine) had this vision of
Nigel on or before October 31st 1941. That it is again referred to on
November 7th. According to the papers and in Nigel's confirmatory
letter, the campaign in Libya opened on Nov. 1 8th. On Nov. 14th, G.
wrote that Nigel lay out on a battlefield wounded in leg or arm. Nigel
was wounded on the 21st, apparently in these circumstances.
At a sitting with Mrs Taylor in March 1940, my brother F. indicated
that there would be an anxious time about Nigel but that he would come
back. Incidentally Mrs Taylor also said that Nigel's mother would
have passed over before he returned.
Writing through Geraldine on May ijth 1940, my brother F. said
" . . . We shall have heavy losses in life. I think Nigel is wounded but
he recovers. ..."
Extract from a letter from Nigel received Feb. 18 1942. [Written to Miss
Gibbes from hospital and dated 5 Jan. 42.]
I have just received your two airgraphs dated Dec. 5th and nth.
Thank you very much, the information received from Mother via Geral-
dine is most interesting. I dont think now there can be any harm in
giving you the information and dates as it is so long ago. We left the
Metropolis and moved into the desert on October the 8th. The battle
started on November 18th (Peg's birthday incidentally), and I was
wounded on November 21st about 5 o'clock in the evening. I lay out
all night by my tank which was burning and was picked up about 7 o'clock
the next morning, Nov. 22nd. My leg was operated on at an advanced
dressing station the same evening and I finally fetched up here about
7 p.m. on Nov. 29th. I was operated on a second time on Dec. 1st
when they removed a fairly large bit of shrapnel from my leg, and that,
Auntie Bea, is I think the whole story. I am up and about again now but
walking is slow and somewhat painful still as the wound has not yet
healed. . . .
CORRESPONDENCE
The Question of Survival
Sir,—Mr Saltmarsh's main contention is that he never held the view
that survival could be proved by a single crucial case. I am glad this is
so but all I can say is that his paper, which I was criticising, certainly
gives the impression that he does or did. He there says, " There remain
two further points for consideration. First whether any combination of
the various types of phenomena would afford more conclusive evidence
than when taken separately : second the faggot theory." Three pages are
given up to these two points and the remaining half-page returns to con-
sidering the crucial case.
What I ask does the phrase " There remain two further points to be
considered " mean? Is this the language of a man who considers that
160 Journal of Society for Psychical Research MAY-JUNE 1942
the only proper method is to proceed as described by Sir Oliver Lodge?
Then, if Mr Saltmarsh did wish to outline a theory such as I described
in my paper as applied to evolution, surely his choice of words is most
unfortunate. For one thing, it is difficult to see why he had to state two
alternatives at all.
Mr Saltmarsh ends up by saying that " the gist of his paper is that so
long as alternative hypotheses are theoretically possible and while the
relative probabilities are not assessable with any degree of precision, owing
to the inapplicability of mathematical treatment, proof of survival . . .
cannot be attained on the data at present available. ..." Mr Saltmarsh
has summed up in a few words the main point of difference between us.
He draws a distinction between conviction and proof and says only the
latter is objective. He should have said only " mathematical proof " is
objective and as mathematics always argues from assumptions and not
from facts, its use for practical purposes must always be limited.
In so far as mathematics is applied to life it becomes a question of
probability. As a guide to life legal proof which must be " sufficient
to satisfy the mind and conscience of an ordinary man and so to convince
him that he would venture to act upon that conviction in matters of
important personal interest " (Taylor's Law of Evidence) is more satis-
factory. In other words, in ordinary life we are satisfied with the tipping
of the balance of probability one way or the other. Otherwise we should
remain for the most part in a state of inactivity. At any rate I deny that
there is any difference between applied mathematical proof and conviction
except in degree.
However, after a brief and as he admits a fruitless discussion of the
" faggot " theory, Mr Saltmarsh returns to the crucial case and says " I
do not know of such a case but if one could be found it would be sheer
prejudice and obstinacy to withhold a provisional acceptance of some form
of survival." If this does not imply that survival could be provisionally
established by a single crucial case, the language has no meaning. Again,
if all reasonable persons are " provisionally convinced " what more do we
want? Shall we continue to pursue the mirage of mathematical proof?
—
I am, etc., B. Abdy Collins.
Sir,—I said in my criticism that Mr Saltmarsh contended that the
synthesis of psychical and physical is analogous to a chemical compound.
In his reply the author denies this contention and asserts that he discusses
both the mixture and compound theories. If by mixture is meant two
separate constituents between which interaction does not occur, then the
supposition is admittedly absurd. To me, the most reasonable supposition
appears to be that between mind and body considerable interaction and
mutual modification occur, but that the two nevertheless remain separate
and distinguishable. In contrast Mr Saltmarsh's fundamental contention
is that "the mode of combination of the factors which go to make up
mind is such that no analysis will afford us knowledge of the pure
elements." To this I take objection. I maintain that there are certain
properties of man, such as consciousness, which are recognisable as purely
psychical, and, in aggregate, make up human personality. It does not
therefore surprise me that what I commonly regard as the psychical
MAY-JUNE 1942 Correspondence 161
element should persist after bodily death and manifest itself in such a way
as to be identifiable.
In my criticism I was so ill-advised as to utter, without further elabora-
tion, the words, " What is wrong with consulting the psychical entities
themselves?" Mr Saltmarsh quite rightly challenges me to produce
a pure unalloyed psychical entity. When I wrote the above I had in
mind the possibility of directly contacting the X (in Mr Saltmarsh's
notation), without the medium complex P-B. A person receiving a
direct impulse, telepathically or otherwise, from a discarnate person is
surely in direct contact with A", the pure psychical element, and it is my
opinion that certain mediums are in this position.
Mr Saltmarsh mentioned various bodily derangements which produce
profound alteration in the personality. I think it is true to say, however,
that the extent and nature of the mental derangements produced by cerebral
lesion, drugs, bacterial infections, etc., depend very largely upon the con-
stitution of the affected mentality, and that many of the personality modifi-
cations produced are not necessarily permanent, but capable of reversal.
Moreover natural death does not seem to constitute a severe trauma,
being a quiet, gradual and natural process. It is therefore my present
opinion that the a priori reasons for expecting bodily death to cause a
profound and permanent personality change are insufficient to cast doubt
upon the empirical evidence to the contrary. —Yours, etc.,
« Donald J. West.
Sir, —May I reply very briefly indeed to the letters of Mr Abdy Collins
and Mr West of which you have been good enough to let me see the proofs.
I can assure Mr Collins again that I do not and never have held the
" crucial case " view, but so long as it is theoretically possible that such a
case might be found, it is necessary to examine the evidence available in
order to discover if one exists and, if not, what it would be like if it did.
Finally, may I repeat that I was not concerned with personal conviction,
which involves emotional elements of many sorts, but solely with
objective, scientific proof. It is now generally recognised that such
proof rests on balance of probability, hence, if you cannot assess that
balance you cannot get proof. My contention was that we have no means
of making any approximately accurate assessment and that we must,
therefore, rest satisfied with subjective conviction—if we can get it. I do
not, and never intended to, suggest that the assessment must necessarily
be numerical.
I think that there is little I need say to Mr West. In a mixture the
constituents interact mechanically, the combination of their characteristics
is additive. I suggest that the best method of settling the difference
between us concerning the possibility of acquiring knowledge of the
characteristics of the pure psyche by analysis of those of psycho-physical
entities would be for Mr West to do so. If he can demonstrate this by
irrefragable logic I shall be only too delighted to admit my present opinion
to be erroneous, for then I shall have learned something which I much
desire to know.
Just one word on cerebral lesions. It is true that in certain cases, such
as some of the aphasias, function is sometimes partially restored, and the
l6z Journal of Society for Psychical Research may-june 1942
theory is that structures in the right cerebral hemisphere, analogous to
those on the left which have been destroyed, are educated to take over the
work. There are a few cases where progressive disease has then attacked
the right hemisphere and the recovered function has again been destroyed.
In such cases no instance of further recovery has been recorded. I have
known cases, e.g. chronic alcoholism, where the manifested character of
the subject has been completely, or nearly completely, altered. It is not
necessary, however, for my argument that the alteration should be even
nearly complete ; if there be any considerable alteration that is all that is
required to show that the manifested personality is composite.
To conclude, I agree that the true personality may survive death, or
perhaps I ought rather to say that death may not entail the destruction 01
the true personality, but the question is, What is the true personality?
My view is that very probably it is quite unlike the " me which I now
recognise as myself."—Yours, etc.,
6
H. F. Saltmarsh.
REVIEWS
Journal of Parapsychology. Vol. 5. Nos. 3 and 4. September and
December 1941. ,
The September number is devoted entirely to a study by Dr Rhine oi
the question of Terminal Salience, together with a short paper by Dr .
Greenwood on the mathematics of the statistical methods employed.
Terminal Salience is a feature of E.S.P. phenomena sometimes found
when these take the form of series or runs of trials. It had been noticed
there was a tendency for the hits to cluster round the ends of each division
of the series, this was particularly the case where the D.T. procedure
was employed. _ .
Dr Rhine's study was designed to investigate this effect and he used a
measure termed Salience Ratio (S.R.). The runs of 25 trials were
divided into five segments and the sum of the Chi-squares (C.R. squared)
of the terminal segments, 1 and 5, was divided by the sum of the Chi-
squares of segments 2, 3 and 4, the result being compared with normal
chance expectation. This is called the Run S.R. (R.S.R.). The same
is done for each segment thus giving Segment S.R. (S.S.R.).
Throughout the experiment the D.T. procedure with sealed packs was
used. There were two divisions in one of which the subjects were all
adults in the other children whose ages ranged from 5 to 13 years. It was
further divided into two series, the interrupted and the uninterrupted.
In the interrupted series five additional cards were inserted into each pack
of 25 these bore, in one sub-division, numbers or letters, in another sud-
division, drawings ;
they were placed at the beginning of each segment
of c E.S.P. cards.
In the uninterrupted series ordinary E.S.P packs were used but a
sub-division was made in that in some cases the subject himself wrote
down his call on a record form of the usual kind, in others his calls were
recorded by the experimenter. There was thus a definite breaking up
of the runs into segments of fives in the interrupted series, a suggestion
of such a breaking up in one sub-division of the uninterrupted owing to
may-june 1942 Reviews 163
the record forms used, which divide the spaces for the runs into blocks
of five by horizontal lines, while in the last there was no such suggestion
at all.
As was expected from previous experiments with similar procedure,
negative deviations were obtained. For the whole experiment this reached
only marginal significance ; as between child and adult the former had
a C.R. of 3-29 which is, of course, significant, while the latter was insigni-
ficant. As regards terminal salience the whole gave a positive R.S.R. of
•85 as compared with chance expectation of -667, the excess over chance,
however, was due entirely to the interrupted series which, taken alone,
showed R.S.R. = 1-38 (P = -03) against -6i for the uninterrupted.
In the subsections it was found that there was more terminal salience
when the interrupting cards were numbers or letters than when they were
drawings ;
in the uninterrupted, more when the subject wrote down his
calls than when they were recorded for him.
For Segment S.R. the interrupted series gave an S.S.R. of 2-60 (P
= •0004), while the uninterrupted yielded on -88 ; the combined series
gave S.S.R. = 1-24 (P—005).
Dr Rhine's study goes very fully into the question of covariation
between the various groups, e.g. R.S.R. 's and S.S.R. 's, child and adult,
etc., and as a result, he finds a new extra-chance relation besides the
ordinary C.R.
Very complete tables and graphs are given, and this part of the report
is admirably exhaustive.
He discusses in an interesting fashion some of the psychological implica-
tions of terminal salience, including the rather obscure question of negative
deviation.
It is to be hoped that further work will be done on this matter as it
appears that it is by means of the investigation of such secondary charac-
teristics of the phenomena that an understanding of the nature and
conditions of occurrence of E.S.P. may best be attained.
Dr Greenwood's short paper in this issue is for mathematicians only.
The layman cannot hope to make any useful comment thereon.
The December number is devoted to an article by Betty M. Humphrey
and J. G. Pratt on " A Comparison of Five E.ST. Test Procedures."
These tests were as follows :
(1) General E.S.P. (2) Open Matching
with Chutes. In this E.S.P. cards, enclosed in opaque envelopes, were
matched against visible target cards by dropping them down the appro-
priate chute. (3) Blind Matching in the usual way. (4) Tests with a
specially constructed machine. This was loaded with 250 marbles of
five different colours and the subject had to guess the colour of the marble
just ready to roll into sight. (5) A Precognition test. Adequate pre-
cautions were taken to guard against sensory clues, recording errors, etc.
2001 runs were done with 37 subjects. The total of all procedures gave
a negative deviation with a C.R. of 2-47, only just below the significance
level. Probability by chi-squares was -0045.
As regards the separate procedures, the O.M. chutes yielded the highest
C.R. = 373, which is significant, none of the others reached the level of
significance.
The authors discuss two rival hypotheses to account for the fact that
164 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may-june 1942
only one of the five procedures gave a significant result ;
they also make
some remarks on Negative Deviation.
It is proposed to take up the question of possible correlation between
E.S.P. test scoring and Personality test scores in a later paper. If any
conclusions can be reached in this matter they should prove^ a very
valuable step forward in the task of determining the nature of E.S.P.
Journal of Parapsychology. Vol.6. No. 1. March 1942.
In an editorial note, the new Editors explain the changes which have
been necessitated by the war, also the proposal to introduce into the
Journal articles of a type more general than those to which it has hitherto
been exclusively devoted. I think that this innovation will be welcomed by
all readers. Though the technical articles dealing with research and the
statistical problems arising therefrom must and should remain the chief
features, the time has arrived when more general discussion of the impli-
cations of the work may profitably be made.
One such article appears in the present issue : it is a review of the first
five years of the Journal and is contributed by Dorothy H. Pope and J.
G. Pratt. It gives a useful account of the work reported and traces the
general trends exhibited during the period.
A report on an E.S.P. test with drawings is reported by Chas. E. Stuart.
The technique used was somewhat novel. There were seven tests, in
each of which four originals were used and the subject made four attempts
to record his response. He was then required to match each of the
originals in turn against his four drawings and to assign a rank of choice,
i.e. best, second, third and poorest match. When this was done he had to
match each of his drawings in a similar way with the four originals. The
agent was then required to do the same. Correct correspondences were
noted and the results scored. One subject P. H., who had previously
had some success in other E.S.P. experiments, took part in each test
sometimes as percipient, sometimes as agent. When he acted as judge the
C.R. showed significance ; with other judges this was not so.
An empirical check on Salience Relations is reported in a short article
by J. G. Pratt, Betty M.TIumphrey and J. B. Rhine. It confirmed the
conclusion, previously arrived at on logical grounds, that the salience
effects in the segments (S.S.R.) and in the runs (R.S.R.) are independent
and cannot be attributed to statistical interdependence.
The last article, by J. B. Rhine and Betty M. Humphrey, gives an account
of a transoceanic experiment, conducted between August 1939 and May
1940 with Dr Karlo Marchesi of Zagreb, Jugoslavia. In four of the sub-
series Dr Marchesi was percipient, in another he was agent, and the
percipients were ten students at Duke. The C.R.'s of all these subsenes,
with the exception of the last of the first group, which was interrupted by
the threat of war, showed no significance, nor did the total of all the sub-
series taken together, but when measured for covariation between salience
ratios a highly significant result was found. This experiment is of special
importance as it constitutes what is probably the long distance record for
such work. TT ^ „
H. F. S.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulation amongst Members and Associates only
September-October 1942 Vol. XXXII—No. 586-587
CONTENTS
New Members - -
Books for H.M. Forces -
A Case of Reciprocal Hallucinations -
Correspondence -
Reviews -------
The Catalogue Method of Assessment
PAGE
166
166
166
168
169
172
NOTICE OF MEETING
THE SEVENTH
FREDERIC W. H. MYERS MEMORIAL LECTURE
ENTITLED
" APPARITIONS "
WILL BE DELIVERED BY
Mr. G. N. M. TYRRELL
AT
Manson House, 26 Portland Place, W. i
on
Saturday, 31 October 1942, at 3 p.m.
N.B.
—
Admission will be by Ticket only. Additional tickets can be had on
application to the Secretary, S.P.R., 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. 1.
Tea obtainable after the Meeting (1/-).
1 66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research SEPT.-ocT. 1942
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 22 June 1942)
Ehrenwald, H. J., M.D., Springfield Hospital, Beechcroft Road, London,
S.W. 17.
{Elected 6 July 1942)
Pyman, Lieut. J. W. H., Rodborough Court, Stroud, Glos.
BOOKS FOR H.M. FORCES
The books which members have kindly contributed to the Libraries for
the Forces through the Society were so welcome that the Council
decided to have bound several old Parts of Proceedings, which were con-
sidered likely to interest the general reader, and have presented these to
the Service Libraries. Included in these presentation volumes are 50
copies of the Report on the Census of Hallucinations {Proc. Vol. X,
Part 26). This seriously reduces the Society's stock of this important
Part. If members in clearing their shelves for salvage come on any copies
of it, would they be so kind as to send them to the Assistant-Secretary at
the Society's rooms?
A CASE OF RECIPROCAL HALLUCINATIONS
We have received from Dr L., who lives at Northampton, the following
account of a " reciprocal " experience which he and his wife, who was
on a short visit to Reading, had on two successive nights. Dr L.'s state-
ment is as follows :
Statement
On Tuesday, July 28, my wife, convalescing after an operation, went
for a few days to the home of her sister at Reading. I had been asked to
go too, but my work prevented me from getting away, and I remained
alone at home. I slept restlessly that night, being conscious of outside
noises like passing planes, etc. During the night I became aware of my
wife standing at the side of the bed, near the foot, gently rousing me with
her hand on my lower limbs and speaking in a low voice. She stood on
the side next the windows, which were wide open. In the light of a
clouded moon her figure was dim but unmistakable, and her attitude and
tone gave the impression of sadness and concern. She asked if I had
minded her going to Reading and leaving me behind. I assured her I did
not mind at all. She made as if to go away and I asked her to wait, but
she^sappeared, though I have no recollection of the manner of her exit.
I found myself gazing out of the window in full consciousness, and it
struck me as odd that I had not experienced any wakening from sleep
subsequent to our conversation, only before it when I had been roused
by the movement of her hand. I lay for some time thinking of the episode
SEPT.—OCT. 1942 A Case of Reciprocal Hallucinations 167
and decided to write the next day and ask my wife if she had had any
untoward experience on that night. This I did, mentioning mine, and
this letter reached her on Thursday (July 30) afternoon. On Thursday
morning I received her wire asking " Are you well?
"
On the night of July 29 I had no unusual experience, nor on subsequent
nights. On July 31 I received a letter from my wife telling me of what
happened to her on the nights of July 28 and 29.
August 2, 1942.
Dr L. has produced to us the letter to his wife to which he refers : it
is dated " Northampton, July 29, 1942 ", and the time on the postmark
is 8 p.m. The material parts are as follows :
' " Did you have any thoughts of me during the night?—any adventures
of the mind such as astral projection? I ask this with some seriousness.
For you came to my bed . . . you stood by the side of the bed, laid
your hands on my [? word omitted] gently to rouse me, and asked if I was
upset at all by your going to Reading without me. You spoke sadly and
looked rather forlorn in the dim light—just an outline and a voice. I
assured you I had no such feelings and you—just retired and disappeared.
I asked a little but you left immediately you got my answer. Oddly enough
I found myself awake but was unaware of any process of waking. Just
lay there in the obscure moonlight with the consciousness of having con-
versed with you in this brief manner.
" If you had any experience at the same time it is worth recording and
comparing notes. Tt may possibly have been no more than a reaction
connected with the book I have been reading. Probably so."
In a letter accompanying his statement Dr L. explains that he had
" been reading lately a book {Man in the Black Hat, by Temple Thurston)
the plot of which is based on dissociation of body and spirit ". He also
adds that he has never been to his sister-in-law's house at Reading and
does not know the town.
Mrs L.'s statement as to her share in the incident is as follows :
Statement
On July 28 I went to stay with my sister at Reading, leaving my husband
at home, though I had hoped he might be able to come with me. During
the night I was restless and slept badly. My mind was confused but I
had a great desire to get out of the house and reach my home. There is
a tame magpie in my sister's house called the " Captain ". He became
associated with my desire to get away and I kept saying to myself that the
only way to get out of Reading would be to fly as he could do over the
trees and houses. I have no recollection of trying to do so in my dream,
just the persistent thought that if I was like the " Captain " my problem
would be solved.
On the following night (July 29) I dreamed about my husband, worrying
about his health and as to how he was getting on alone. The windows
were wide open. Suddenly I became aware of him standing near the
door, my bed being between the door and the windows. His figure was
ghostly and without definition, but a shaft of silvery light (coming from
the inner part of the room, not from the windows) lit up his features. He
1 68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research sept.-oct. 1942
was smiling slightly and there was tenderness in his expression. We did
not speak to each other at all. After what seemed a minute or two his
face and figure faded away. I felt calm and contented and fell asleep.
The next morning (Thursday, July 30) I recounted my experience to
the family at breakfast, for it was very vivid in my mind. My son sug-
gested we send a wire at once to see if anything had happened to my
husband, so we wired " Are you well? " I felt some anxiety because,
when living in Egypt during the last War, I dreamed vividly of seeing a
photo of my brother in a paper with a report of his being severely wounded,
and this actually happened in France about that date. On Thursday
afternoon came a letter from my husband telling me of his experience on
the previous Tuesday night. Nothing out of the way occurred after this
and I returned home on August 1.
August 2, 1942.
The son, aged 14, adds a confirmatory statement. An officially certified
copy of the telegram referred to has been shown to us : it was handed in
at Reading at 10 a.m. on the 30th July, 1942, and reads " Are you well,
please wire?
"
In his covering letter to the Society, Dr L. writes :
" I have experienced what I understand is known as astral projection on
many occasions, dreaming that I floated through space, sometimes with
ease at high altitudes, sometimes briefly and with much effort just above
ground level. This has not occurred during the past two or three years,
a fact I have attributed (perhaps wrongly) to my being in rather poor
health and sleeping badly. My wife has had no dreams of this kind."
Each percipient was at the time of the experience recently awakened
from sleep, a condition favourable to the externalisation of subliminal
thoughts and emotions, and the fact that each was thinking much about
the other would be a pre-disposing factor to externalisation, even if there
were no suggestion of telepathy. But Mrs L.'s " great desire to get out
of the house and reach my home " on the night of the 28th July, may have
telepathically reinforced Dr L.'s own normal thoughts and feelings, so
as to bring them to externalisation-pitch, so to speak, while her own
experience on the night of the 29th, before she had any normal knowledge
of her husband's experience of the 28th, suggests reciprocal telepathic
activity with her husband as agent on the second occasion.
Both Dr L. and Mrs L. mention previous psychical experiences, but
these were clearly quite different, there being no suggestion that either
had previously " appeared " to the other, or to any third person.
CORRESPONDENCE
Much Hadham Rectory,
Herts.,
18. 6. 42.
Sir,—Readers of the Journal will be interested to know that the appeal
for the endowment of a University Studentship at Cambridge as a
memorial to Oliver Gatty has met with so favourable a response that the
.;<{ it/o<
sept.-oct. 1942 Correspondence 169
fund raised has been accepted by the University. To all members of the
Society who, with so many other calls on their generosity, have kindly
contributed I should wish to send my warmest thanks.—I am, Yours, etc.,
Penelope Gatty.
REVIEWS
Thoughts through Space. By Sir Hubert Wilkins and Harold Sherman.
Pp. 421. Illustrated. New York : Creative Age Press, 1942. Price
$4.50.
Our members will be interested to hear that Mrs Eileen Garrett has
set up as a publisher in New York under the style of the Creative Age
Press, and will congratulate her on having brought out such an interesting
book as Thoughts through Space, of a size and get-up which would turn
the ordinary English publisher at the present time green with envy. The
book is an account of Sir Hubert Wilkins's attempt, undertaken at the
request of the Soviet Government, to find some Russian fliers who were
missing on a flight in August 1937 over the Polar Regions from Moscow
to Alaska. It is a thrilling story of adventure under conditions of great
difficulty, and to psychical researchers it is of particular interest as record-
ing experiments in telepathy over a long distance where ordinary means
of communication were not available. Before setting out on his flight
Wilkins agreed with a friend, Mr Harold Sherman, living in New York,
that at frequent definite intervals Wilkins should endeavour to transmit
his thoughts to Sherman, who would record the impressions received.
The progress of this experiment is very fully reported in this book.
Repeatedly the Wilkins record and the Sherman record were found to
tally.
Many of Sherman's impressions related to matters likely from time to
time to be uppermost in Wilkins's mind, e.g. good and bad luck with the
weather, with machinery, and with the health of the exploring party. In
this connection occasional hits were to be expected, but Wilkins was
satisfied that Sherman scored more than could be attributed to normal
guesswork. Sherman also scored several hits when his impressions dealt
with matters lying far outside normal incidents of Arctic exploration ; he
had an impression, for example, that on a particular day Wilkins would
attend a social function in evening dress : Wilkins had naturally taken no
evening dress with him, but had borrowed some in order to attend an
Armistice Ball in Canada. Again, Sherman, who did not know exactly
where Wilkins was, had, on the 30th November, 1937,
" a strong impres-
sion of ping-pong balls " on an evening when two of Wilkins's party were
in fact playing that game. On the 8th March, 1938, he makes the following
entry :
" Diamond Mine. Why I should think of this is a mystery."
Wilkins annotates :
" That night was telling people at table, at about the
time you were sitting, of visit to African diamond mines."
> Wilkins and Sherman also attempted experiments with Zener Cards,
though both of them remarked that the lack of emotional interest attaching
to the cards seemed to militate against success. It is very curious to note
that on one occasion Sherman, in addition to getting seven hits out of
170 Journal of Society for Psychical Research sept.-oct. 1942
twenty-five shots, " recorded four other cards in which his sequence was
the same as mine, although one card later than the order in which I had
sent them ". At the time of this experiment, so far as I am aware, nothing
had been published regarding the displacement effects studied by Mr
Whately Carington and Mr Soal.
W. H. S.
Brief Darkness. By Gladys Osborne Leonard. Cassell, 10s. 6d. net.
The late Arthur Clutton-Brock once suggested that mediums' descrip-
tions of the after-life and of other planes of being should be neither
credulously accepted at their face-value nor rejected out of hand, but
given the attention that a sensible man would have given to travellers'
tales, in the days when knowledge of far-off countries was scanty. By
now, some of the most derided tales of the ancient travellers have turned
out to be substantially true, though the unicorn has either vanished into
the region of myth or undergone a marked change on being identified as
a rhinoceros. As a traveller in other dimensions, Mrs Leonard commands
the respect due to her quiet and sincere presentation of things seen and
experienced, slight though the grounds often are upon which we can
estimate the objective or subjective nature of the vision and the experi-
ences.
Some of the stories she tells could be of evidential interest. In one
impressive case, the evidence has had some attention on being reported
in part to the Society, and the main facts are known to be as stated. But
Mrs Leonard's aim is not to marshal evidence on S.P.R. lines, but in all
simplicity to bear her own witness and to let her recital create its own
impression. It would be unprofitable either to accept her experiences
as all of objective fact, or to reject them as products of the imagination.
In some instances she tells of dreams and of waking imagery for which
she herself is frankly unsure in putting forward an interpretation. What
is well worthy of our study is the kind of world that presents itself to a
medium of Mrs Leonard's standing, the kind and quality of experience
that has attended the cultivation of her particular gifts.
A point by which many readers will be impressed is that there is no
attitude of superior knowledge and enlightenment to be observed in this
book. Rather there is a childlike, at times a na'ive, disregard of the
impression to be produced upon critical readers, so long as the experience
to be related is put into direct and simple language. Nothing seems to
be written for effect ; and with no apparent thought of self-presentation,
Mrs Leonard in fact displays the attitude of a humble and sometimes
puzzled inquirer—as, indeed, do many of the mediums whose work has
proved most reliable. The texture of personal experience described
in this book may seem, in parts, to be loosely woven and to constitute no
very enduring fabric for the gospel of Spiritualism ; but Spiritualism
itself is best served, in the long run, by such candid and simple-minded
records of experience as Mrs Leonard here imparts to her public.
K. R.
SEPT.-OCT. 1942 Reviews 171
Journal of Parapsychology. Vol.6. No. 2. June 1942.
In the Editorial the question " To whom belongs the field of Para-
psychology? " is discussed.
Wm. R. Birge and J. B. Rhine contribute the first article in a series
entitled " Unusual Types of Subjects tested for E.S.P." The first type
dealt with is the Professional Medium and the subject chosen is Mrs
Eileen Garrett. Mrs Garrett is outstanding among professional mediums
in that, as the authors say, " she has literally walked into the laboratory
of the psychologist, the physician and the psychiatrist, and offered her
services as an experimental subject for study ".
A short account is given of the Trance Association Tests reported by
J. G. Pratt and the formal E.S.P. tests carried out at Duke and in this
country. The authors discuss the relation between the two types of test and
the success obtained in one situation compared with the failure in another.
We look forward to further articles in this series as it appears that
valuable information might be derived from investigation along these lines.
E. P. Gibson and C. E. Stuart have an article on " Atmospheric Pressure
and E.S.P. Score Averages ", and arrive at the conclusion that there is no
significant relation between them, though it is admitted that the data
available are not altogether satisfactory.
J. B. Rhine reports a further series of experiments in precognition under
the title " Evidence of Precognition in the Covariation of Salience Ratios ".
In this experiment the shuffling and cutting of the cards was determined
by using figures obtained from temperature readings of a specified day
in the future. One cannot imagine a method better calculated to defeat
the charge of lack of randomness and possible psycho-kinetic effect.
2302 runs were made in two major series, in one the delay in checking
was two days, in the other ten days. The subjects were in two classes,
adult and child. Each series was further subdivided into unbroken runs
and broken runs for the two-day series, and interrupted and broken runs
for the ten-day. The broken runs were divided into segments of five in
the usual way, while the interrupted runs had as well other tests between
the segments.
On the check-up the predictions were found to be not significantly
above chance. The Salience Ratios were calculated for the various
sub-series of each division, i.e. Adult and Child, also by Sections, that is
unbroken and broken two-day, interrupted and broken ten-day, by series
and by Pooled Hit Distribution. An extra-chance relation was found in
some of the Salience Ratios, the strongest evidence being derived from
SSR-RSR covariation from SR's based on pooled deviations of the sub-
series at the Section level. P. in this case comes out at -0016. Other
significant results were found, e.g. in SSR . RSR covariation for A.
Divisions, P. = -0047, and B. Series, P. = -0044. There is an adequate
discussion of the various topics involved.
As this method of obtaining extra-chance significance from Salience
Ratios and their Covariation is somewhat of a novelty, it is to be hoped
that a full discussion of its meaning and implications may eventuate, also
criticism, if any, of the statistical methods involved.
There is also an article by the present writer entitled " The Nature of
Extra-Sensory Perception ".
H F S
172 Journal of Society for Psychical Research SEPT.-OCT. 1942
Telepathy in Dreams. By Dr H. J. Ehrenwald. The British Journal
of Medical Psychology, Vol. XIX, Part 2, 1942.
Dr Ehrenwald, whom we are happy to welcome as a new Member of
the Society, here describes and discusses two interesting cases within his
own clinical experience : in one the evidence for telepathy is strong, and
in the other a telepathic explanation is the most natural unless it is pre-
supposed that telepathy must not yet be accounted a natural phenomenon.
Dr Ehrenwald argues effectively that in all such cases it is the objection
against rather than the evidence for a paranormal explanation which is
suspect, since our acceptance of the evidence is impeded by psychological
resistances of which we remain unaware. Magic is still feared in the
deeper layers of the mind.
Spiritualism : A Statement for the Enquirer. By Mercy Phillimore.
L.S.A. Publications, 37 pp., 6d. net.
A simple, well-balanced exposition of the Spiritualistic point of view,
containing sensible and experienced advice for those who are anxious to
obtain communications through a medium.
THE CATALOGUE METHOD OF ASSESSMENT
Members who are interested in Mr Whately Carington's Catalogue
method of evaluating percipients' spontaneous impressions will be glad
to know that this method is fully described in a paper which he has now
deposited with the Society : Experiments in the Paranormal Cognition of
Drawings, Part HI. This includes the Catalogue itself, and tables for
the use of computers. So extensive a work cannot, unfortunately, be
printed in full under present conditions, but the paper can be consulted
(not borrowed) by Members and Associates on application to the Assistant-
Secretary.
This very promising addition to the psychical research worker's equip-
ment has now been in use for over six months in the assessment of experi-
mental results which are being obtained by the group working for the
Precognition Committee, as well as in Mr Carington's own work. In its
application to experiments which differ in a good many details of technique
from those conducted by Mr Carington in the Paranormal Cognition of
Drawings, the new method appears to provide a flexible and sensitive
instrument for the detection as well as the estimation of paranormal effects.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulation amongst Members and Associates only
November-December 1942 Vol. XXXII—No. 588-589
CONTENTS
PAGE
New Members - - - - - - - 173
Meetings of the Council - - - - - - -173
Meetings of the Society - - - - - - -174
The Myers Memorial Lecture, 1942 - - - - - 174
Case : A Collective Hallucination at Boscastle, 1933 - - 174
Reviews --------- - 178
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 2 October 1942)
Richmond, C. N., 38 Bolton Gardens, Teddington, Middx.
Winterbottom, Alistair, 7 Hanover Terrace, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 1.
(Elected 4 Novembei- 1942)
Clerk, Lady, 63 Pont Street, London, S.W. 1.
Cruickshank, Mrs, Hazeler, Preston Street, Shrewsbury, Shropshire.
Hart, Miss M. A., 27 Kings Court North, London, S.W. 3.
Kirk-Duncan, Rev V. G., Magdalen College, Oxford.
Knowles, F. W., 149 Gladstone Park Gardens, London, N.W. 2.
Mountford, Miss E. G., 163 Adelaide Road, London, N.W. 3.
(Elected 26 November 1942)
Hills, W. B., Haul Wen, Llanwrtyd Wells, Breconshire.
Maclean, Miss S. M. P., Brecklarach, Tarbert, Argyll.
Pollard, R. S. W., 17 Victoria Street, London, S.W. 1.
Student-Associate
Medhurst, R. G., 126 Finborough Road, West Brompton, London,
S.W. 10.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 388th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Thursday, 9 July 1942, at 3.15 p.m., the Hon. Mrs
Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There were also present : Miss
I. Newton, Mr G. Redmayne, Mr W. H. Salter and Mr G.'N. M.
Tyrrell ; also Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant- Secretary.
174 Journal of Society for Psychical Research NOV.-DEC. 1942
The Society's printing programme was considered.
The 389th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1, on Thursday, 26 November 1942, at 3 p.m., The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Sir Ernest Bennett,
Sir Robert Gower, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., the Hon. Mrs Alfred
Lyttelton, G.B.E., Miss I. Newton, Mr G. Redmayne, Mr W. H. Salter,
Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell : also Miss
E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were read and
signed as correct. Three new Members and one Student-Associate were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
Mrs Goldney was co-opted a Member of Council.
MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY
The 175th Private Meeting of the* Society was held in the Library on
Friday, 2 October 1942, at 3.30 p.m. A paper entitled " Experiments in
Precognitive Telepathy " by Mr S. G. Soal and Mrs Goldney was read.
THE MYERS MEMORIAL LECTURE, 1942
The Frederic W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture, the Seventh of the Series,
was delivered by Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell, at Manson House, 26 Portland
Place, London, W. 1, on Saturday, 31 October 1942, at 3 p.m. A dis-
cussion followed, and among those taking part were : The President, Dr
Thouless, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, Dr Eva Morton, Mrs Oliver
Gatty, Dr L. J. Bendit, Mr Abdy Collins, Dr Ehrenwald, Dr Hettinger,
Mr W. H. Salter and Mr Winterbottom.
The Lecture, which is entitled " Apparitions ", will be issued gratis to
Members and Associates, and will be on sale to the public at a price to be
announced later.
The Hon. Treasurer has pleasure in
butions to the Society's funds :
Mrs Carpenter
Mr G. Redmayne -
Mrs Vickerman
acknowledging the following contri-
- li 1 o
10 10 o
I I o
CASE: A COLLECTIVE HALLUCINATION
AT BOSCASTLE, 1933
Interest in cases of hallucination has received a fresh stimulus from Mr
Tyrrell's recent Myers Memorial lecture on the subject. In particular
the hallucination shared by and apparently generated in more than one
mind at the same time seems more comprehensible in the light of Mr
Tyrrell's theory of the construction of images. Recorded cases of this
kind are somewhat sparse, and the following example which has reached
us through Sir Ernest Bennett is a welcome addition to the available
nov.-dec. 1942 Case: A Collective Hallucination at Boscastle, ig33 175
records. This hallucination appears to depend for motive upon wish-
fulhlment, as seems also to be the case in an example given in Mrs.
Leonard's book Brief Darkness, reviewed in the last issue of the Journal
:
In that instance a bridge over a river was " seen " in full light by both
Mrs. Leonard and her niece at a place where they wished to cross the
river on their return from a walk. On turning to approach the river at
this spot they found that there was no bridge there.
In the present case the wish of the two percipients, Mr and Mrs Clifford
Pye, for a suitable guest-house may be held to have set their imaginations
working in unison upon the construction and exteriorisation of a detailed
picture of such a house. The case is nine years old, but the possibility of
errors in memory seems to be adequately considered in Mr. Pye's com-
ments. There is the obvious possibility to be entertained that an actual
house was seen and its locality incorrectly remembered, and on Cornish
roads it is often easy to miss, when on foot, an object previously seen
from a vehicle, owing to the height of the stone " hedges " ; but Mr and
Mrs Pye seem to have been stirred by their mystification to make a very
thorough search along the route that they had previously traversed, before
they could accept the idea that a hallucination had misled them both.
Mr Pye records the occurrence as follows :
In June, 1933, my wife and I were on holiday at Falmouth. After some
ten days we decided to spend the remainder of my leave on the north
Cornish coast, the choice of locality being left to chance, though the
general intention was to make first for Boscastle.
On Saturday, 17th June, we went to Wadebridge by train, and there
took 'bus for Boscastle, passing Tintagel, and subsequently Trevalga. We
were then about a mile and a half from Boscastle and were keeping a good
lookout for any hotel or guest-house which might appear suitable.
On approaching Boscastle and at a point about one hundred and fifty
or two hundred yards before reaching the top of the steep hairpin bend
hill which drops into the town the 'bus stopped momentarily to set down
a passenger.
It had come to rest almost outside the gate of a rather substantial house,
standing on the left hand side of the road. It stood back from the road
some twenty yards or so, there being a semicircular drive from the gate
outside which we had stopped to another gate, twenty-five yards further
on. The garden front was screened from the road by a hedge, over which
we could just see from our seats in the 'bus.
The house was double-fronted, and of a style of architecture which I
judged to date from the late 1860's or early 1870's. It had a fresh, trim
appearance, and seemed to have been recently painted, the woodwork and
the quoins of the house being of a rather reddish light chocolate in colour.
The most striking feature, however, was on the lawn, where amongst
beds of scarlet geraniums there were several wicker or cane chairs and
tables over which there were standing large garden umbrellas of black and
orange.
No person was seen, nor do I recollect having noticed any sign notifying
that it was a guest-house, though I had no doubt that such was the case.
I called my wife's attention to the place and she immediately replied that
176 Journal of Society for Psychical Research nov.-dec. 1942
it was " just what we were looking for " but, before we could come to any
decision, the 'bus moved off and in two or three minutes we were down
in Boscastle.
Neither my wife nor I were much attracted by the place, however, as
we found the smell of the seaweed on which a hot sun was shining rather
disagreeable. My wife then said that she would much prefer to stay at
the place we had passed at the top of the hill, and returned there to try
and book rooms.
I expected her to be back well inside half an hour, but when over an
hour had passed and there was no sign of her, I began to grow apprehensive
but could not leave to make enquiries, having with me our luggage.
My anxiety continued to increase, and it was with great relief that after
an hour and twenty-five minutes I saw her coming down the hill, looking
considerably heated.
To my enquiries as to what had made her so long, she replied that she
had been unable to find the house ; that she had climbed on various gates,
etc. to look around but could see nothing—and had so continued until
she got to Trevalga, a mile and a half away, where she had booked rooms.
I said that I couldn't understand how she could have missed the house
—
the only detached house there was at that spot—and that the umbrellas
in the garden made it impossible to overlook the place. She herself
seemed to be much astonished at her failure and could not understand
how she could have failed to find it.
I replied that it was of no particular consequence but that on our way
back to Trevalga (by 'bus, over the same road by which we had come,
for there is no alternative route), I would point out the house to her.
In due course we got on this 'bus, and as we reached the top of the hill
remarked " It's just here on the right—about fifty yards further on "
—
but to my astonishment, there was no house. Just empty fields running
across to the cliffs by Blackapit.
During our stay at Trevalga we made a thorough search of the locality
but failed to find any place even remotely resembling what we had seen.
On a subsequent visit to the Trevalga guest-house, I told our experience
to the proprietor, who assured me that from his knowledge there was in
the neighbourhood no such house as I described.
Mrs Pye has added the following statement, and Mr Pye's subsequent
notes upon this, also printed below, record the precautions taken against
any avoidable blending of the two percipients' memories through a desire
to show agreement over details. There is, in fact, a discrepancy with
regard to the geography of the episode ; this appears to be satisfactorily
explained by Mr Pye's comment and the fact that he had made a contem-
porary mark upon a map showing the approximate place where the
experience occurred.
Mrs Pye's Statement
In June, 1933, my husband and I went to Cornwall for a holiday. We
stayed at Falmouth first, then decided we would go on to Boscastle. We
went to Wadebridge by train and on by 'bus. We had booked no accom-
nov.-dec. 1942 Case: A Collective Hallucination at Boscastle, ig33 177
modation, so after we had passed Tintagel we began to look out carefully
for anything suitable ; and on our left we saw a jolly-looking guest-house,
standing up on a sort of terrace, with tables set out and gay orange and
striped umbrellas over. My husband said, " that looks attractive". I
was surprised, as he generally likes an old place, and this house was
modern and fresh-looking and reminded me of Chisenbury Manor, near
Enford, Wilts. We went on a little further and came to a very attractive
sign which advertised an Elizabethan guest-house, just off our road, on
the left and I at once thought " Ah ! now Clifford (my husband) will
want to go there !'" By this time we were going down the steep hill into
Boscastle. When we arrived at the bottom of the hill, our luggage was
put out on the grass by the side of the road and we went round the village ;
it was a hot day and Boscastle seemed hot and smelly so we decided we
would rather stay at the jolly-looking guest-house which I thought was
about i\ miles back. My husband stayed with the luggage and I walked
back up the hill, past the turning to the Elizabethan place. And then
to my amazement I couldn't see the jolly-looking house—so I stood
up on a gate and had a good look back along the road and still I could
see nothing at all. I was very puzzled, but came to the conclusion that
as the 'bus was travelling quickly, we had mistaken the distance and the
modern guest-house must be much nearer Tintagel than we realised. I
went to the Elizabethan guest-house and booked rooms there. Then I
went back to the bottom of the hill and told my husband what I had
done. He thought I was stupid and said, " Of course the house is there
—
but now we must go to the old place. Another 'bus came from Boscastle,
picked us and our luggage up and we got out at the turning to the old
guest-house. Next morning we decided to go back to Tintagel and find
the jolly-looking guest-house—but we couldn't—and one day we walked
along the road because we were so puzzled, but of course we never did
find it and I can only suppose we imagined it was there.
Edith Pye. 4. 11. 42.
Letter from Mr Pye to the Editor
" Greenford ",
Hardenhuish,
Chippenham, Wilts.
Dear Sir, 5. 11. 42.
In accordance with your suggestion I have now obtained from my
wife her account of our collective hallucination at Boscastle in 1933,
and this I forward for annexation to my own account which has already
reached you through Sir Ernest Bennett.
My wife's account was written without collaboration with me. I made
no suggestion whatever as to what she should say and she, on her part,
asked for no information. She has no written notes of the matter, so
that what she has said comes solely from her own memory of the happening.
You will note that there is a discrepancy between her statement and
mine as to the exact spot at which the hallucination occurred.
This I believe to be due to a trick of memory. At the time of the
occurrence she was in agreement with me as to the location, viz., a quarter
mile or so west of Boscastle, and this was the spot which we first visited
in our search. She now appears to think that it was somewhere west of
178 Journal of Society for Psychical Research nov.-dec. 1942
Trevalga. This idea arises, I fancy, from the fact that after having spent
a day or so following the event searching the road from Trevalga to
Boscastle, as a forlorn hope I suggested that we should try back along the
road to Tintagel—which we did. It is now some years since we have
spoken of the matter, and, in the interval, my suggestion seems to have
taken root, and given rise to the idea that the spot was actually west of
Trevalga.
In support of my contention I can adduce the following : Had the spot
been west of Trevalga I think it unlikely that I should have asked my wife
to take a walk there and back on a hot afternoon, of some three miles. On
the contrary, had I done so, I should not have experienced the rather
anxious feeling which came over me at her prolonged absence. It was
the fact of her being gone nearly an hour and a half on a journey which
should certainly not have taken half an hour, which gave rise to anxiety.
Finally I have before me, as I write, the map (contained in Methuen's
Little Guide to Cornwall) which I had with me on the holiday, and which
I marked in pencil with the place, as near as possible. The map is on a
small scale (4 miles to the inch) and the mark is just west of Boscastle.
That mark was made within a week of the occurrence, and to my mind
appears to clinch the evidence.
One other point arises out of my wife's statement—and that is her
reference to the house reminding her in appearance of Chisenbury Manor,
Wilts.
I do not recollect having heard her say so on any previous occasion.
Unfortunately I have no knowledge of Chisenbury Manor, but I am in
agreement with her that the house was " standing up on a sort of terrace''.
Circumstances at present make travelling, especially to a rather out-of-
the-way place like Chisenbury rather difficult, but should a chance arise
of making a visit there I shall certainly avail myself of it.
Faithfully yours,
Clifford H. Pye.
REVIEWS
The Journal of Parapsychology. Vol. 6, No. 3. September, 1942.
The Editorial in this number touches on the question of hypnosis and
sketches very briefly the manner in which it has come to be accepted as
orthodox. In contrast with this, the difficulty which E. S. P. has met, and
still is meeting, in achieving a similar " graduate " status is discussed.
Relevant to these remarks, Dorothy H. Pope and J. G. Pratt contribute
a comprehensive survey of the criticisms raised against the E.S.P. hy-
pothesis since the inception of the Duke research. They point out that
this falls into three sections : first, the mathematical, which may now be
said to have been successfully met : second, concerning the technique
of the experimentation ; here criticism has been fruitful and has resulted
in improvement of method and precautions : third, criticism based upon
alternative hypotheses ; this conflict still continues though it may, I
think, be fairly claimed that some considerable success against the critic
has been won.
Margaret Pegram Reeves and J. B. Rhine contribute the first of a series
NOV.-DEC. 1942 Reviews 179
on " Exceptional Scores in E.S.P. Tests and the Conditions". The case
reported is that of the child Lillian, aged 9. Her average score over 100
runs for all conditions was 5
-
9i, which was the highest for the group.
Her exceptional scores were 23 out of 25 in Open Matching and, in the
next session, the whole 25 right, also in O.M. The authors discuss the
psychological conditions which may have led to these exceptional scores.
The main report in this issue on new experimental work is on "A
Confirmatory Study of Salience in Precognition Tests " by Betty M.
Humphrey and J. B. Rhine. The conditions of this experiment were
substantially similar to the earlier studies, already reported in previous
issues, with the exception that the subjects did not know which of the runs
would be checked up immediately and which after ten days' interval.
The division into Child and Adult was as before, as was also the method
used to secure randomisation. By the ordinary C.R. method the experi-
ment showed no significance but the Co-variation of the Salience Ratios
showed significance with, in some cases, probability = o-ooi. The
authors discuss the Multiple Calling and other alternative hypotheses and
arrive at the conclusion that none of them can account for the results. It
would seem therefore that, provided that the deviation of the S.R. co-
variation can be held to be sufficient to exclude chance, some fore-
knowledge must have been possessed by the subjects. The C.R.'s for
the SSR-RSR relation for immediate and delayed checking, i.e. for two
days' and ten days' interval, were respectively 1-49 and 2-89, which shows
that the longer time was no limitation upon performance, thus confirming
the conclusions of the previous series. Furthermore, inasmuch as the
ignorance of the subject concerning which runs were to be checked
immediately and which after delay was apparently no hindrance to pre-
cognition, it is suggested that the time interval is somehow short-circuited.
Further experimentation along these lines is clearly desirable.
The last article is by Charles E. Stuart and Burke M. Smith on " A
Second Study of the Effect of Tempo Rates of Matching". This carries
on the investigation previously reported. In the earlier experiments it
was found that subjects scored higher when matching cards at their
" preferred" rate of movement than at their non-preferred rate. In this
series no consistent favouring of rates was observed. The conditions of
the two experiments were different and the authors conclude that the
failure of the second to confirm the results of the first may be ascribed to
marked motivational differences due to the changed conditions.
H. F. S.
Telepathic Dreams. By Nandor Fodor, LL.D. The American Imago.
Vol. 3. No. 3. August 1942.
Recent papers by Dr Ehrenwald 1
have drawn renewed attention to the
occurrence of what appear to be telepathic effects in the course of psycho-
logical treatment, and this study by Dr Fodor further enriches the literature
of the subject. It may be asked why, since Freud's cases recorded in
New Introductory Lectures on Psycho-Analysis, so little should have been
1
Psychopathological Aspects of Telepathy, Proc. vol. xlvi, p. 224; A Psycho-
therapist's View of Telepathy and Mediumship, read at the Private Meeting on
25 March 1942.
180 Journal of Society for Psychical Research nov.-dec. 1942
forthcoming from a field of observation in which telepathy might be
expected to occur with some frequency. We have to remember, however,
that the psycho-therapist is not as a rule looking for evidence of telepathy
and would be apt to regard it as an undesirable distraction from the work
in hand ; and he may well be deterred by the feeling that he has enough
responsibility for making sure that his dream-analysis is valid without
trying to establish the validity of evidence for telepathy as well. Dr
Fodor's prior experience as a psychical investigator will have made it
the easier for him to take such evidence in his stride.
It will be noticed that in several of the thirteen cases described by Dr
Fodor from his own experience in dream-analysis, the presumable
telepathic links between his patients' dreams and those experienced by
himself and others depend to some extent upon his own interpretation
of dream-symbols. This is by no means always the case, as in a pretty
example which shows a new patient, before the analysis had begun,
dreaming of hyacinths, which had a special significance for her. At
about the same time—within a few days—Dr Fodor dreamed of hyacinths
which could move and speak. He and the patient met, and the patient's
dream was first mentioned, at a school entertainment ; and their conver-
sation was interrupted by the opening of a scene in which the children
represented flowers moving about and talking. Such a coincidence at
least gives a flying start to Dr Fodor's ensuing argument that the patient's
thoughts and symbolisms had determined a corresponding imagery in
his own dreaming.
The thirteen cases discussed are not of equal cogency and in one or two
instances, as is duly noted, alternative normal explanations are available
besides the standing possibility of chance coincidence. A few cases of
coincident dreaming by Dr Fodor and members of his own family are, in
the nature of things, difficult to clear from the supposition that images
arising in the dreams might have arisen beforehand in family conversation
and have been forgotten. In the case of patients' dreams the forgetting
of normal linkages of mental content seems much less probable ; and in
regard to accuracy of record, Dr Fodor has the advantage of his practice
of noting dreams in shorthand when patients report them verbally. In
nine of the thirteen cases it can be said that direct and obvious corres-
pondences between elements in one dream and in another call for some
explanation, apart from any further correspondences that emerge from
analysis of the manifest content of the dreams. The validity of these
further correspondences may be held by some to depend a good deal
upon the meanings read into the dream-symbols at the choice of the
analyst, who is thus free to make interpretations that suit any latent
desire he may have to expand the evidence for telepathy ; but it can
fairly be said that Dr Fodor shows no sign of twisting his interpretations
away from the single aim of therapeutic usefulness. It should also be
noted that where Dr Fodor is on more debatable ground, from the
evidential point of view, he is also exploring those obscurer processes of
subliminal activity, the alogical associative processes, among which science
may need to seek for the further elucidation of telepathic phenomena.
K. R.
INDEX TO VOL. XXXII
i 94 i - i 942
For the sake of brevity such qualifications as " supposed ",
" alleged ", etc., are omitted from this index. It must, however,
be understood that this omission is made solely for brevity, and
does not imply any assertion that the subject-matter of any entry
is in fact real or genuine.
American S.P.R., 24, 69-70, 133
B. S., Mr (percipient), 71 ff.
Bacon, Mrs Charlotte, 59
Balfour, The Countess of, 154
Baynes, Dr H. G., 69
Benson, E. F., apparition seen by, 119
Bergson, Prof. Henri, 2
Besterman, Th., 22-4, 44-6
Bishop, Miss G. M., 50 ff.
Blennerhasset Trust, 4 ;
applied to
an enquiry into precognition, 50,
127
Books for H.M. Forces, 115, 166
Browning, Rev. W. F., 116 ff.
Campbell, Lady, 135-6
Carington, W. Whately, 3 ;
ap-
pointed to Perrott Studentship, 5 ;
22-4, 44-6, 64 ; review by, 84 ;
127, 153
Carruthers, Miss H., 5
Cases :
" Greek Script by a Child of
Four ", 116 ff. ;
" An Apparition
Seen by Two Witnesses ", 1 19-20 ;
" A Dream Suggesting Precogni-
tion ", 135-6 ;
" Some Evidence
of Precognition by Communi-
cators ", 158-9 ;
" A Case of Re-
ciprocal Hallucinations ", 166 ff. ;
" A Collective Hallucination at
Boscastle, 1933 ", 174 ff.
Catalogue Method of Assessment,
The, 153, 172
Clairvoyance, 10 ff., 42
Co-conscious personalities, opera-
tive in paranormal cognition, 42 ff.
Collins, B. Abdy, 46-8, 84, 90, 137 ff.,
159-60
Crandon, Mrs L. R. G., 115
Cummins, Miss Geraldine, 158 ff.
Dingwall, Dr E. J., 152
Dixon, Prof. W. Macneile, 133
Dowsing, The Physics and Physiology
of Field, 14 ff., 38 ff.
Dreams, Foreknowledge in, 50 flf.
Driesch, Dr Hans, obituary of, 113 ff.
Dunne, J. W., and precognition in
dreams, 127-8
Ehrenwald, Dr H., 99 ff., 172
Elliott, Miss, 71 ff., 127
Fodor, Dr Nandor, 179-80
Fowler, Rev. Prebendary J., 120
Gatty, Oliver, 5 ; memorial to, 1 54,
168-9
Gatty, Mrs Oliver, 112, 152, 168-9
Gay, The Hon. Mrs, 112
Gibbes, Miss E. B., 158 ff.
Gibson, Edmond P., 27 ff.
Goldney, Mrs. K. M., 77 ff., 174
Gowan, C. H. B., 147
Gregory, C. C. L., 38 ff.
Hallucinations, 12 ;
Reciprocal, a
Case of, 166 ff. ; Collective (Bos-
castle), 174
Herbert, C. V. C, 48, 50, 127
Hettinger, Dr J., 4
Hope, Dr Olive, 116 ff.
Hyperaesthesia, 61-2, 84, 103
Hyslop, Dr George H., 133
Jephson, Ina, review by, 66
l82 Index to Vol XXXII
King's College, London University,
experiments at, 4
Lodge, Sir O., " sealed envelope ",
2, 5
Maby, J. C, 14 ff., 38 ff.
Mace, Dr C. A., in
Motor reactions, paranormal, 13,
42 ff., 79
Murphy, Dr Gardner, 5
Murray, Dr Gilbert, Experiments
in Telepathy with, 29 ff.
New College, Oxford, and the
Blennerhasset Trust, 4
Palmstierna, Baron Erik, 144 ff., 154
ff.
Paranormal Cognition : of Draw-
ings, 2, 22-4, 127, 172 ; Mr Soal's
experiments, 71 ff.
Perrott Studentship, 5
Phillimore, Miss Mercy, 172
Philosophy, 10 ff., 42, 147
Precognition, 11 ;
enquiry into,
under the Blennerhasset Trust, 50,
127-8 ;
experiments with Mr B.
S., 71 ff., 91 ; A Dream Suggest-
ing, 135-6 ;
by Communicators,
158-9
Price, Prof. H. H., re-elected Presi-
dent, 5, 133 ; on telepathy, etc.,
in relation to philosophy, 10 ff.
;
42 ff.
Psycho-analysis in relation to para-
normal phenomena, 100-2, 179
Psycho-Therapist's View of Tele-
pathy and Mediumship, A, 99 ff.
Rayleigh, Lord, 61-2, 103
Recommended Literature on Psychi-
cal Research, 9
Redmayne, Geoffrey, 3, 133
Reviews. Books :
Rev. Harold Anson (Master of
the Temple), The Truth about
Spiritualism, 88
Hereward Carrington, Psycho-
logy in the Light of Psychic Pheno-
mena, 66
Julian Duguid, / am Persuaded,
103
J. W. Dunne, Nothing Dies, 87
Dr J. Hettinger, Exploring the
Ultra-Perceptive Faculty, 84
Reviews. Books : (cont.)
Gladys Osborne Leonard, Brief
Darkness, 170
Sir H. Wilkins and H. Sherman,
Thoughts Through Space, 169
Charles Williams, Witchcraft, 89
Reviews. Periodicals and Pam-
phlets :
Journal of Parapsychology, 64,
91, 106, 162, 164, 171, 178
Journal of the American S.P.R.,
105
Hibbert Journal, 147
British Journal of Medical Psy-
chology, 172
The American Imago, 179
Spiritualism : A Statement for
the Enquirer, 172
Rhine, Dr J. B., 5, 91
Richmond, Kenneth, 46-8, 50, 71 ff.,
127, 152-3
Richmond, Mrs Kenneth, 112
Salter, W. H., no ff.
Salter, Mrs W. H., 29 ff.
Saltmarsh, H. F., 120, 137 ff., 154 ff.,
159 ff-
Seymour, Lady Culme, 1 10
Soal, S. G., 4, 23-4, 42 ff., 50, 62-3,
71 ff., 174
Society for Psychical Research :
Accounts, 1940, 6 ff., 1941, 130 ff.
Committees, Membership of, 27,
150
Lectures, 10, 174
Library, 9, 133
Meetings : Annual General, 25,
151
Council, 5, 26, 94, no, 126, 150,
151, 173
Private, 10, 69, no, 152, 153,
174
Membership, 10, 133
Publications, 10, 134
Report, Annual, for 1940, 2 ff. ;
for 1941, 126 ff.
Research Work, 2 ff., 127-8
Survival, The Question of, 120 ff.,
137 ff., 154 ff., 159 ff-
Telepathy, in relation to philosophy,
Prof. Price on, 10 ff. ;
experiments
with Dr Gilbert Murray, 29 ff. ;
42 ff. ;
Experiments in (D. J.
West), 96 ff. ; in Macbeth, 99 ff. ;
in Dreams, 172, 179
Index to Vol. XXXII
Thomas, Rev. C. Drayton, 5
Thomas, Dr John F., obituary of,
27-8
Thomson, Mrs Edith (medium),
noff., 128
Thouless, Dr R. H., 5, m
Trinity College, Cambridge, and the
Perrott Studentship, 5
Tyrrell, G. N. M., 5, 142 ff., 152,
154 ff.
183
Unity of Minds, 13-14
Walker, Miss Nea, 9
West, Donald J., 96 ff., 120 ff., 139
ff., 1 60-
1
Worcester, Dr Elwood, Obituary of,
94 ff.
Williams, Mrs Roberta, " A Per-
sonal Experience ", 59 ff.
