{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1victoria_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Victoria D NDE 5032","mylang":"de"}
          	        Victoria D NDE 5032  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Victoria D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2605 Victoria D NDE 5032  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was falling, time seemed to really slow down. I was very aware of my environment and I experienced a lot of emotions including fear, sadness and hope.

I did experience a slight 'life review' in which I saw my family and focused on their faces for a few minutes. There were feelings of disappointment because I knew that I might not ever see them again.

Once I had landed, I was conscious and I waited for the ambulance to arrive. I had no NDE experiences at this point in time.

A few hours later when they had rigged up ropes and climbing equipment, I was moved from the tree on a spinal board. This was very painful and it was at this point that a strange thing happened.

Firstly, I felt like I had split in two with my physical body remaining on the ground. The other element was where my awareness was and it felt as if this was a ball of energy (I could not see this because my awareness was gone from my physical body). The energy ball hovered at the level of my eyes about ten centimeters away from my physical body's face and watched. I could see the physical body screaming in pain and crying but I felt no connection to that person.

After what seemed like an eternity, I travelled as the energy ball up to a place. I don't know how I travelled there but it was above me somewhere. This place was dark and it had lights of different colors travelling through it. The colors where yellow and orange and green - no blue colors. When I could see this place, I felt an overwhelming sense of happiness and excitement. I felt like I had arrived home. I was impatient to enter this 'highway' of light. It was almost as if I had somewhere I wanted to be.

I tried to enter but could not. It was as if there was a glass panel stopping me. I was then told by a voice that I needed to go back down to my physical body. I had a conversation with this voice and said that I was disappointed with the physical body because it was broken. I felt as if the physical body had the potential to cease movement, which frightened me as I was an energy ball and needed to keep moving. I was then told that I needed to look past this and return.

I returned although I have no recollection of how.

The next minute I was back in the physical body and felt 'whole' again. I was very frightened by the situation as I was being carried along a cliff path on a spinal board.

Shortly after returning to my physical body, I looked up at the men carrying me (about four of them) and I realized that I could see large ovals of colored light around their heads. When their ovals of light came close to the other guys, they connected and the color changed. The colors were orange and yellow.

I also saw three small tennis-ball sized ovals of light hovering between the men. These were aqua blue - a color I had never seen throughout the whole experience. When I saw these, I instantly recognized them as spirits that I had known before. They were very comforting and we communicated although I am not sure what they said. After we had communicated I felt instantly calmer and my pain decreased.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  6th February 2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was hiking with friends and I slipped and fell approximately fifty meters. I landed in a tree, which broke my fall. I sustained many injuries including vertebra fractures, sternum fractures and ankle fracture.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Straight after I communicated with the three blue circles of energy.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time went away.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see colored ovals of light around my rescuers' heads. This stopped after a while.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    When I was looking down at my physical body I could see that I was screaming and crying but I could not hear anything. The sounds of the physical world disappeared until I returned to my physical body.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I spoke to someone although I was not sure who it was. I think it was a man and at the time, they were familiar to me.  On returning to my physical body, I encountered the three blue energy balls and I felt as if I had known them before. They felt like family.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a dark area with millions of brightly colored lights travelling very fast through it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The place where the lights were was beautiful.  It was like a massive space that was black and it had thousands of coloured lights travelling through it very quickly which made it sparkle.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Feeling of coming home.  Welcoming feelings.  Feelings that I had been there before.  Impatience that I couldn't travel on the 'highway' of light.  After returning to my body fear was replaced by unconditional love and support from the three light balls.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I am still investigating my spiritual side.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I am still investigating my spiritual side.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I felt as if words cannot describe what I experienced. It was so overwhelming.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I could see the circles of light around people's heads. They communicated with each other. It was like an aura. This went away very quickly although I do at times feel as if I can read people's auras. I do not see them though.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me a while to tell anyone. I have told a few members of my family and a few friends. Some people find it really interesting and inspiring. Others are quite dismissive.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was very life changing. It has stayed with me since the accident and all the details are so vivid in my mind. I have no religious beliefs even though I was raised a Christian, and this has shown me that there is nothing to be afraid of in relation to death.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I did feel that my physical self and my energy-ball self were very different. I felt that there was a need for more cohesion. It still perplexes me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1victoria_d_nde.html