{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1victor_b_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Victor B Possible NDE 7914","mylang":"de"}
          	        Victor B Possible NDE 7914  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Victor B Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			4101 Victor B Possible NDE 7914  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was four, I had a very serious surgery. One night my left kidney stopped working. I lost consciousness immediately and was transported to a hospital by ambulance. My kidney was removed. I had no recollection of the event for more than 30 years. Since my childhood, I had a recurring dream, in which I was getting more and more farther from the world. I felt like I was a powerful magnet, which repels the whole world from itself. It is hard to describe with words. I had this dream at least a thousand times during the years.  When I was 35, I started visiting a psychologist, mainly because I only had a few memories from my childhood (before I was 12 years old). I wanted to know the reason of this. During the sessions, more and more childhood memories surfaced. Bad and good ones as well. One time, with the help of the KIP method I was brought back at the time when I was four, and then I was lying on the operating table and the well-known scene from my dreams started happening and I was moving away from the world. I saw myself lying on table. I also saw that the doctors started to rush. I drifted further and further away from everything. After the first fright, it wasn’t a dreadful experience at all. Finally, I have arrived to a bright, white place. It looked as if I was in clouds. There was silence, peace and it seemed like time ceased to exist.

I don’t know how much time I spend here, but after a while, I started to fall back, towards my body. Like a very strong magnet pulled me back. I tried to resist, I didn’t want to return, but the force was stronger than I was.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1984

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related. While under general anesthesia.      Other: nem tudom behatárolni  Loss of consciousness due to kidney failure

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw everything that was happening in the Hospital.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I saw everything that was happening in the hospital, I felt like there are no limits.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout the whole experience

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     At the white, bright place, there was simply no time…

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My field of view was much wider. Maybe 360 degrees.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The noises were gradually fading away until I arrived to the bright white place. I could only hear the silence there.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It seemed more like the World disappeared in a tunnel...

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I arrived at a big, bright place.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     A big bright place seemed as if I was in the clouds.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       First, I was scared, then curious

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated   Kisgyerek voltam, semmilyen vallási nézetem nem volt.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I didn’t meet God or unearthly beings. Although I had a feeling that I only reached some kind of a ‘vestibule’…

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I take life less seriously, because I know that it won’t end with death.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I knew I was dead, in itself is the evidence, that there is something after the death.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life.     I don’t fear death. It was relieving to know, that death is not a big thing.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no accurate words to describe it.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events.   As I described before, I was very young (4 years old). I had been dreaming about it countless times but I had no clue what it was, then I successfully discovered with the help of a psychologist that it was a real remembrance and now I can remember it as a memory. I hope it is not too confusing what I write.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The divergence from my body

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately, with my SO. She was sympathetic.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It is hard to describe. I know it was real and not a hallucination.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is hard to describe. I know it was real and not a hallucination.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   As I mentioned before, I have dreamt about it several times.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It is impossible to describe the experience with words. Those who haven’t had this kind of experience would never be able to understand it accurately.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1victor_b_possible_nde.html