{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vicki_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Vicki S NDE 892","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vicki S NDE 892  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Vicki S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						366  Vicki S NDE  892  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was standing on the roof of our old garage trimming an overgrown hedge - we had recently purchased the property. After completing the work, I stepped backwards from the edge to admire the result. I did not realize that there was a brittle plastic skylight set into the roof. Before I knew what was happening, I had fallen ten feet onto the concrete floor below landing on my back and hitting my head.


I remember the sensation of falling and hitting the ground. The next sensation was of 'seeing' myself as a crumpled body below me on the floor. A split second later, I was 'back in my body' but aware that this body was in some sort of spasm from the neck down - I had no feeling in my body even though I could see my limbs flailing about. I could move my eyes voluntarily but nothing else. At that moment, I was conscious of a disjunction between my body and my mind/soul. It was as if the normal state of seamless synchronization had been broken and had exposed the two distinct constituents of my being. This 'out-of-sync' moment was replaced by a feeling of 'coming to', and I began screaming for help as my 'seamless' consciousness returned.


A medical examination revealed that I had no broken bones or internal damage. I had sustained a hit on the back of my head, which left me with a hematoma but no other problems. It would appear that I was lucky not to realize that I was falling before I hit the ground, as I did not have time to tense my muscles in anticipation. Although I experienced trauma to my spinal cord, it sustained no damage other that bruising.


The feeling of disjunction is the strongest feeling that has stayed with me. I am fascinated by the realization that whilst still living, I momentarily experienced the separation of my body and my life essence, an event that normally is believed to happen only at death.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    October, 1995

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Accident    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening Fell from a garage roof.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was a presence looking down from the ceiling in the corner of the garage to the left of my body lying on the floor below.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I felt present throughout the whole episode, although in an altered state.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   In the sense that time appeared to stand still as I experienced the separation of body and mind/soul.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Absolute silence.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     For a brief moment the seamlessness of being human was broken and the separate entities of body and mind/soul were distinctly revealed.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     As time has passed I have developed a sense of calmness about my existence, after being initially disturbed by the incident in the days following the accident. I feel more aware of life experiences than I was before.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       One in the same - the disjunction between body and mind/soul.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vicki_s_nde.html