{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vickie_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Vickie M NDE 144","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vickie M NDE 144  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Vickie M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						582  Vickie M NDE  144  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I was in a car accident in august of 1990. My boyfriend at the time was driving and I was in the front passenger seat. We came round a corner, he wasn’t looking ahead, and we crashed into a car that had stopped to turn right. My face smashed into the dashboard and the windscreen came in on me. My seat came un-welded from the floor and my head smashed into the roof of the vehicle. I also had quite a deep injury to my leg.


The next thing, I was screaming and being dragged out of the car by my boyfriend and neighbors that had come out of their houses. I then passed out on the ground, which was when I had my strange experience.


I felt as though I was looking down on myself for a brief moment and then there was a real feeling of peace and calm. I was no longer scared or in pain. I remember I was in a very beautiful and vast place with stunning landscapes of trees, lakes and waterfalls, and everything was blue. There were people around me. I am not sure how many, as I didn't really see them. I could just feel their presence and the feeling of love. They knew my name and they reassured me that everything was going to be all right; particularly one man who I believe could have been my grandfather. He died before I was born so I did not know what he looked like.


The next thing I know, I had come round and was back to reality. I felt a huge sense of sadness and longed to go back.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    August 2, 1990

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Accident    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening
 
Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  For a very brief moment, I was looking down at myself and the people that were around me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No   

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     The people were all around me. I didn't know them, but I felt they knew me. They reassured me that everything was going to be alright.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   Everything was blue.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     There were beautiful landscapes with trees, lakes and gushing waterfalls. Everything was blue.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Love, peace, calm.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Only that I now believe that when we die there is nothing to be afraid of. We will meet our loved ones again in another place.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was the feeling of love and peacefulness around me. The worst was coming back to the reality of the car accident.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vickie_m_nde.html