{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vicky_nde.html","mytitle":"Vicky NDE 3488","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vicky NDE 3488  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Vicky NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1550 Vicky NDE 3488  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My skin turned red and I was having problems breathing. I tried to take a cold shower because I felt as if I was on fire. I believe the shower made it worse. I had to lay down. By the time they got me in the ambulance, I had to totally force in on breathing. The last thing I remember was telling the guys that I was having real bad chest pains. Felt like a ton of bricks weighing me down.

When I saw the light, I felt the love and wanted to go into it. Wondering who was there with so much love for me as I started to go into the light. Out of the darkness, as if it was coming from me, a big brown-eyed baby girl came to me, face-to-face; eye-to-eye. Eyes open wide as if to say, 'Hey, what are you doing?' With that I replied, 'Okay, I'll fight!' She looked one or two years old.

When I came to, I heard one of the ambulance drivers say, 'We're lucky we don't need it because it is broken.' The other replied, 'What, isn't charging?' 'Yes, but the handle is broke.'

By the time, they got me to the hospital I was so cold that I was shaking all over when I asked for a blanket. I was told that I had a fever and couldn't have one.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'July 19,2007'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction    Other bad reaction to medicine

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I saw my baby's eyes.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw my baby's eyes.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was in a tunnel and light that wasn't any place on earth.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was backed up with a heavenly glow. And a baby I'm still waiting for.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     There was a tunnel and light. But as I started to go deeper in the tunnel those big brown eyes stopped me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A baby before reaching the light.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, peace, joy and hope.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I am going to be a mother!

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     My baby girl.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Improvements - getting ready to give her my best.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Improvements - getting ready to give her my best.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I am going to have a baby.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I know who my baby daddy is. They both have really big eyes.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My baby.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They all think I am crazy. Asking often if I had my monthly.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   TV and my father said he had one but didn't want to talk about it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I feel excited still! Waiting for my baby. Happy joyful.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Still excited, wondering when she will be here.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vicky_nde.html