{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vicky_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Vicky M NDE 3627","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vicky M NDE 3627  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Vicky M NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1636 Vicky M NDE 3627  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was six years old, diagnosed with meningitis and pneumonia and a collapsed lung. It was after 'bedtime' as the nurses had gone back to their station; I had nobody else in the room. I was alone.

Then I was suddenly looking down at my body. I was keenly aware in my young mind what had happened. I could look around the room, seeing everything clearly but noticing nothing mattered - in a material sense. I was very aware of the fact I had died, and I had a choice to go to heaven or return to life on earth. I also felt very connected to the universe and could feel how we are all connected. I knew what I had to do - as I felt, knew, I had work to do on earth; I was here to help others.  I knew it was too soon to die. It was not a frightening experience, but definitely a life changing experience. It has affected everything I've done to this day and will to the end of my days.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Spring 1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't know how long I was 'gone' - I was very aware the entire time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Awareness of time is infinite once we have left our earthy bodies.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion, peace, sense of purpose.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I have a keen sense before things happen all the time.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew why I was born. I knew I have to help people that is my purpose. Material things are worthless - helping people is priceless.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I know when people die. I have always known. Since I got home from the hospital that is. My grandfather died shortly after I came home, I knew when the phone rang and my mother answered it, what it was about.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My purpose for living.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared this with my sister, she has a similar sense but not as 'tuned in' as I am.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Don't remember having such a sense, but cannot say for sure as I was so young.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I grew up real fast, a six year old knowing the reason they exist is pretty profound.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Nothing has changed. I knew from an early age, from this experience, and have strived, well - not really as it comes naturally to me to need to help people, help them through rough times, it's why I'm here.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No, I think I've been pretty clear.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vicky_m_nde.html