{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vickie_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Vickie G NDE 21970","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vickie G NDE 21970  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Vickie G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1845 Vickie G NDE 21970  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					‘Bring your son into the examining room, the doctor will be there shortly’ the young nurse instructed.  As I took my two-year old son by the hand, I walked into the stark white room where I sat in a chair and held him in my lap.  He was resting his head against my chest.  He had complained of a sore throat, and I could tell he wasn’t feeling well because he had become lethargic and wasn’t as active as he normally was.  Within a few minutes, the doctor came into the room assisted by the nurse.  He asked, ‘What brings you into the office today?’  I replied, ‘He’s had a little bit of a fever, a sore throat, and has just lost most of his energy’.  The doctor then said, ‘Well, let’s take a look at you young man’.  He then sat my son upon the examining table and had him open his mouth so that he could check his throat. ‘Red throat’.  He then took the end of his stethoscope and listened to David’s chest while he told him ‘Breath a deep breath and hold it now, okay let go’. 

I had not been aware that I was feeling dizzy or anything while I was standing off to the side of the exam. I felt perfectly normal. 

The next thing I remember was that I saw myself crumpled onto the floor.  I was floating above my own body and the sensation was euphoric, it was a feeling of perfection in the highest form.  I was completely weightless and hovering over my own body in complete bliss.  I watched and listened suspended above my own body. At the same time, it was as though all questions of the universe had been answered in that one moment. The nurse exclaimed ‘Oh my gosh, doctor, what happened?’  The doctor turned as quickly as the nurse had and was checking me.  I could see my lifeless body lying there, the eyes were shut and the face was expressionless.

  He then said, ‘She is sick too, but she’s been taking care of her family and hasn’t even been aware of her own self’.  The doctor then called to the assistant ‘Bring the ammonia inhalant pack’.  I thought as I was hovering over watching all this ‘No, please don’t do that, I don’t want to come back from where I am, let me stay here’.  The feeling was so good, so weightless, so careless and oblivious to any problems of the world, it was the most peaceful feeling I’ve ever experienced. Suddenly I saw the nurse come into the room and hand the white gauze tiny bullet-like packet to the doctor.  He snapped it open and the sensation in that split second was that I was being sucked back into my body.  The heaviness and confinement of my body came back and I was back in my body in an instant.  I never told the doctor of the experience for fear he would think I was insane.  At that time, 1971, I had never heard of an ‘out of body’ experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1971

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    Doctor said it was fatigue from caring for family that caused me to faint.   Fatigued.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It was like a vapor form and appearance of myself with no constraints or feeling of weight or worry. Total bliss and total profoundness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       On the floor and passed out, I had no alertness or consciousness.  Hovering above my body, I had weightlessness and saw the entire happening from the perspective as being above all that was going on.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard exactly what was going on in the room below me.  I saw every expression the doctor, his nurse and assistant had and saw them as they spoke the words and questions.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     The entire experience was at the doctor's office.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     All senses were intact, though it was more like an aura rather than five individual senses.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Elation, profoundness, weightlessness, bliss, complete understanding without question and a desire to stay where I was in that moment.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     It was a feeling of ‘This is what it is all about, I know the answers now, if only people really knew, how can they not?  It's so clear!’

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   When the doctor called for the smelling ammonia packet, I knew that he was going to pop it under my nose and that I would be returning to my body. I didn't want him to do that.  I wanted to stay suspended above my body because it was where I felt heaven was.  The minute he popped the packet, it was as though my spirit was sucked hard back into my body form.  I immediately felt the weight of the body that confined me.  I have tried to remember a way to describe what I had known as the ‘answer’ and I was never able to find the words to describe it.  It was as if it were something you had to experience to know.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I wasn't afraid of death any longer, just the pain that comes with it before dying.  I knew after this experience that those who claim these things to be false or hokey can only be those who have never really actually experienced an out of body experience.  To try and recreate such a thing is not the same as actually experiencing one that is not induced with drugs or man-made experimental devices.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have had lots of psychic things happen in my life beginning when I was a young child.  This was the first out of body experience.  I did dream of the heavens at night being filled with colored stars aligned in chemical symbols, shooting stars, and comets, which was frightening in the dream.  Three days later the events of 9/11 happened.  I've had other dreams where I have tried to awaken but was paralyzed and could not move or scream out.  I've had several dreams where I hear three knocks which awakens me and then the next day someone will call to tell me of the death of someone in the family.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was the entire time that I got to spend suspended out of my body and the sense of knowing all and feeling so blissful.  The worst part was not being able to trust telling anyone about it for fear of being called crazy.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Those who have had similar experiences understand.  Those who have not always tried to make up some excuse as to why it cannot be real.  Just as in life, there are those who do not believe in the concept of God. If they cannot see it for themselves they cannot imagine it having any truth to it and pass it off as crazy thinking.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I once experienced the feeling of being surrounded by a warm and hugging type magnetic sensation which felt like the form of a telephone booth. It had no visual appearance to it, but I could feel the form of it around me.  I had just prayed for help in getting a job that I needed very badly.  I was waiting to take the test for the position.  As I stood, the form moved with me and stayed with me until the test was completed.  The interviewer was impressed with my test scores and said that he had never seen anyone take the test without a college degree and make such a high score. I got the job and then the aura moved away from me. While in that form's magnetic pull and warmth, I felt completely at ease and it was as though someone else had taken over and guided my every movement and answer.  It was the same sense of calm and bliss that I had felt while in the out of body experience, only this time I stayed in my body and was surrounded by an unseen aura.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Only that it displeases me that people who have not experienced such things are so inclined to dismiss as true what they cannot understand or experience themselves.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vickie_g_nde.html