{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vernon_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Vernon C NDE 7443","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vernon C NDE 7443  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Vernon C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3792 Vernon C NDE 7443  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I went swimming in Gold River with two friends and got swept out into a fast current.  Where the two rivers came together, I went under the first time.  I tried waving at my friends because I could not swim to shore. So, I tried going with the current but got sucked under again.  I came up for third time but saw bright lights and bubbles rising above.  Then everything was quiet.  

The next thing was that I was about a few hundred feet in air watching my body tumble down the river. I thought how weird it was that I had drowned; yet I could still see, think, and wonder.  I thought, 'OMG, here we go again.  We don't die. All the hogwash about heaven and hell isn't real.  I just drop my body off and, wow! I am not dead.'  As I rose higher and higher, I lost vision of my body.  Then I turned around and saw the light.  

I was taken to a big room and shown myself on a screen for a life reading.  I saw everything in my life that I had done, frame by frame, and in slow motion.  I re-experienced every moment and its cause and effect.  There was a sense of oneness, no judgment, no criticism, and no condemnation.  There was just a sense of peace.  Then it was over and I was told that I had to go back. As I turned and descended, I saw my body caught on a tree that was part in and out of water.  

As I slowly approached, I saw that my head was out of the water.  As I came into my body, I was pulling myself out of water by pulling on the branches.  I don't recall much about getting up and walking back to town, except that I was very cold.  The first house that I recognized was a friend that I knew, so I knocked on door.  Her little sister was the only one home and asked if I could get warm.  Apparently, I collapsed on the couch and slept for 3 days, only getting up to go to the bathroom and drink tea.  At least 6 hours had passed since my friends had last seen me.   My friends didn't know that I had drowned; they thought I was waving to them to join me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  spring 1969

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Other:  drowned, no one around.  I went swimming and got caught in river current.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Tunnel

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I saw my body floating down the river.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Same

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Life review

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

The experience included:       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   was raised in several protestant churches penecostal,united,presbyterian,anglican, baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I still meditate daily.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   new age christianity, buddahism,ascended master teachings etc etc

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It confirmed what I understood and felt before about religion: there is no heaven or hell or a God that judges.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No   was aware but not named

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     had the thought here we go again.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     we are one

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     we are all one

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   A sense of oneness

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     yes not my time to leave body had to return ..mission

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     you dont die only your body does  there is oneness

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     experienced

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I have had a lot more.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Empath, healing, awareness: that the Jesus and Mother Mary, and the ascended masters are real but nothing like religion portrays them and I continue to walk and talk with them daily.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Years ago, no one really understood. Since I met Dannion Brinkley and others, they understand.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I was aware of karma and reincarnation at about age 11 as I was doing yoga and meditating, but my family really wondered about me, they said it wasn't true: only Jesus.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It confirmed what I knew within my own being.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It confirms what I know within my own being and so much more now.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I continued to have out of body experiences regularly and Mother Mary appeared to me once about 20 years ago and set me straight again.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vernon_c_nde.html