{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vernon_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Vernon G NDE 2607","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vernon G NDE 2607  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Vernon G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						846  Vernon G NDE  2607  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  At the time I started to fall I seen my life flash in front of my eyes. It was like a very crystal clear slide show of all the things that I shouldn't have done. Just after that all I could think of, was who was going to take care of my three beautiful little babies and my loving wife? I guess that's what gave me the will to live. So I put my right leg back as far as I could and hit on my right leg first and then the rest of my body impacted with a force that destroyed the rest of my body. After the impact, I remember getting the knowledge of the universe. I had my eyes wide open but I couldn't blink an eye or move a finger.

Then I saw my spirit sitting up out of my body wearing the blue jean jacket and the clothes that I was wearing. Then I remember looking down on my body and saying oh well it's just the shell I was trapped in anyway. But on the concrete ground, what was strange is that I was saying no I want to live to take care of my family and I saw that my spirit was only about half way out of my body. I could hear the sound of people gossiping about me and the things that I had done and that I shouldn't have done. I also heard a voice in my head saying that if I got up off the ground I would live in terrible pain for the rest of my life. I said that I don't care about that and my spirit was half way out of my body.

I started fighting my way to my feet. It was the hardest fight of my life and as I was getting up before my spirit could completely leave my body my knowledge of the universe started to leave me. However, I knew I was going to live to see, love, help my family once again, and continue to take care of them until I die. I thank God the father and Jesus his son for letting me stay to help my wife and children. I've been living in constant miserable pain for almost twenty five years but it has been worth every minute of it to be with my family.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 11/24/81  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury  entire body injured  Life threatening event, but not clinical death fell backwards 18 feet very fast and impacted the concrete very very hard.  At the time of falling it was knowing you're going to die.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Because God is in your life more than ever at that time because you are so very close to death and the other side.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I would have to say yes very much so.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     It was like a place without time or everlasting time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Seeing your life flash before your eyes is very crystal clear.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing a clear voice in my head telling me that I would be in pain for the rest of my life if I got up off the ground.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I couldn't have a feeling of joy or happiness because I wanted to be with my family and not dead and away from them.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   I didn't get that far because I fought my way to my feet.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     just seeing that there was another side and that i was there.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, love, and the will to live - and as I was floating over my body knowing there was no pain on the other side.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     Seeing all the things I never should have done. That helped me live a better life and do better things with the time I have left.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     You're not supposed to know your future if you are going to go back to life.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I'll always love God the father and Jesus his son.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   catholic  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I'll always love God the father and Jesus his son.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I can't tell you that because when I started to fight my way back up off the ground the knowledge of the universe, which is the knowledge of everything, faded away and when you come back from death you do not have that anymore. You go back to the knowledge you have in life until you die and regain it once again.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Your family has a very close binding, one that can't be torn apart.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I've had spiritual experiences since I was a very young child.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just read my story, it was all very meaningful and significant to me.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told them many of my spiritual experiences and including my fall to death and I think it helped them to look towards heaven and look away from hell.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It's still with me as if it just happened.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's still with me and will be forever I still feel the same about it.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Not at this time maybe some other time.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not at this time maybe later. I am very tired and painful so I must rest. Thank you very much for letting me tell my story, sincerely, Vernon.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vernon_g_nde.html