{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vern_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Vern D NDE 127","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vern D NDE 127  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Vern D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						559  Vern D NDE  127  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

In 1974, I was a serving member of the 'Royal Signals', stationed in Cyprus, and engaged in work 'partnered' by the National Security Agency. On the evening of November 28, 1974, I (along with others) had enjoyed a few drinks in the local bar. I kept 'getting up' during the night to go to the toilet. On one occasion, I walked around the 'lockers' scattered about the room but tripped against an obstruction and fell headlong to the floor. Unfortunately, lying on the floor was a 'soldier box', a small locker made from pressed steel. As I fell to the floor, I struck my head forcefully against one of its sharp corners. I felt incredible pain for a fraction of a second, and then stood up.


Standing up, I could feel no pain whatsoever. I touched my head and could find no real damage. I walked with no pain (and no lack of function) to the small table located in front of one of the barrack-room windows. Although it was still quite dark, I could clearly see the other occupants of the room. I felt that I was seriously injured and ought to get someone to assist me. I walked around the room looking at the other people lying asleep in bed but for some reason I knew I could not wake them. I sat down at the table and attempted to complete a child's puzzle I could barely remember: 'Make 23 from how many matchsticks'. I did this to pass the time, for I wanted someone to find me and get me medical attention.


When I looked out of the window, the light appeared (I realize this sounds daft) ‘too yellowish’ or ‘golden’ and there appeared to be a limit to how far I could see (this limit could possibly have been early morning mist). After a time (I’ve no idea how long), I had the thought that should someone find my body and I'm sitting over here, they could miss me...(an odd thought). So I walked back toward my own 'bed space' (situated behind the 'lockers' at the bottom of a 'bunk-bed'). I looked toward one of the people sleeping and that's the last thing I remember until 'waking-up' on December 3, 1974.


Being so real, I had no reason to believe that what I experienced had not occurred 'physically' and after waking-up, I proceeded to relate my story to one of the nurses. She went on to state that I'd been found, 'just after 5 o'clock' and that I lay where my head had struck the soldier box. She said I couldn't have walked about the room and done all I had, as no one moves after the level of injury I'd sustained. She also said I'd been found suffering hypothermia and that I'd died twice: once in the ambulance and again on the operating theatre. 

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    November 28, 1974

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   AccidentCriminal attack  Who knows?   severe fracture of the skullSignificant head injury.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Apart from the afore-mentioned strange effects, I believed I was still 'within' my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Fully conscious but I felt I couldn't wake anyone up or communicate with them - I just hoped someone would wake up and find me, so as to get me the help I needed. I felt no physical ill-effects, but knew I required help.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No   

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I could hear no noise (that I can remember).

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     The only other beings I saw were those alive in the room.

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light of the dawn looked quite strange.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Frustration that the people in the room wouldn't wake up. I felt myself to be waiting for something to happen.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I knew I had to get back to where I'd been injured. I was frightened to 'go and look' but decided I had to go back. I cannot remember seeing 'myself'.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Anglican (church of England)

What is your religion now?      Moderate   I'm an Anglican in a Roman-Catholic family. (Wife and children)

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I believe that sometimes the 'dead' don't know they've gone.  

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Surviving is the best part, and the physical pain (experienced upon waking up five days later) was the worst part.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My wife. She doesn't really want to know 'either way'. I would seriously doubt the value of bringing up the subject during 'any other business' at the end of management meetings.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I'd rather have avoided it all together, had I the choice.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Can't think of any.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vern_d_nde.html