{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1veronica_a_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Veronica A Probable NDE 2187","mylang":"de"}
          	        Veronica A Probable NDE 2187  		  		  		  		  		    		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Veronica A Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						613  Veronica A Probable NDE  2187  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was in the labor room of a clinic in my city trying to give birth to my son after twelve hours of labor. They took me to the labor room without answering my questions and they only wanted to know when I had last eaten. After answering, they put me on a gurney and told me to count backwards from one hundred. At the beginning, everything was illuminated by white light, which I immediately associated with death, but I was afraid to ask if I was dying. I saw my husband dressed as a doctor, with the white surgical gown and mask. Truly, I barely recognized him. Later I found out he was praying constantly for the baby and me.

Somehow, I began to move through some kind of brightly colored geometric figures that served as a sort of matrix, yet I did not feel alone. It was as if many eyes were watching me. The only thought I had was, 'Aha! I recognize this. I know what it is. I have experienced this before.' I don't know whether I went upwards or forwards, but I immersed myself in those colors. I intermixed with them. Further on, I felt as if I left the previous experience by passing through some tiles or bricks. I was flying but I didn't understand much of what I saw. People were working down below, while I was near some windows. In another scene, I saw myself down below but not in the hospital bed; rather standing up, very pregnant, saying goodbye to the 'me' that was flying.

Without further experiences, I awoke in the hospital bed but only for a short time because I continued sleeping for about five hours.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 3 de julio de 1997  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Surgery-relatedChildbirth       Other Me anesteciaron para poder sacar a mi hijo que en ese momento estaba naciendo  Keeping in mind the health-care system in my country, it's possible that I was in danger but they didn't tell me about it because before having the experience I asked why they were giving me general anesthesia for giving birth, but they never answered my question. I felt ignored. The strange thing is I thought my son should have been born about 9:00 am and the clinical report says it was at 11:00 am.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was very skeptical before this experience but I found out I came from an greater source, that earthly existence wasn't the only reality, that I had experienced life before in some unknown dimension.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I began the experience and during the time I was moving through those colors.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Perhaps somehow I understood that time and space are the same. As space began to expand from a certain point, it gave birth to time. And I understood I existed even though I didn't have a human body.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     A field of vision that was at least 180 degrees with bright colors that were alive as if they had life themselves.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     It was as if I definitely knew I was not alone and I even felt I was being watched. Not by beings with human form, but by some other consciousness or entities that I don't know how to explain.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Everything around me was incredibly white at the beginning. There were no limits or reference points.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Aquel mundo de figuras tridimensionales de colores brillantes, pero en tonalidades que van desde rojos, hasta violetas.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At the beginning fear and uncertainty, but as the experience transpired I felt the familiarity of something previously lived, well known, but later as something just completely natural.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     Of course as a result of this experience I understood that when I die it won't be the complete, absolute blackness of nothingness that I had supposed. My consciousness came from somewhere and I separated from it for some reason that I now believe I understand. When I was two years old, I was baptized Catholic. Before that, I didn't profess any religion. Now I know there is something beyond this life but I'm not longing to get there. Somehow it will come on its own.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Since I didn't believe in the Judeo-Christian God who was, to a certain degree, too human, I began to discover a God that transcends all earthly understanding, a source, pure and primordial from which all things emanate; alive and present in absolutely everything that can come into being, that exists and will ever exist. Because of our five senses, time is only a limitation of our very limited human perceptions. But this is the way it should be.  Everything that happens has a perfect reason for being.  It is necessary to experience the agreeable as well as the disagreeable in order to know the difference. We need to live through 'Heaven and Hell' in order to choose. It's that simple.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Since I didn't believe in the Judeo-Christian God who was, to a certain degree, too human, I began to discover a God that transcends all earthly understanding, a source, pure and primordial from which all things emanate; alive and present in absolutely everything that can come into being, that exists and will ever exist. Because of our five senses, time is only a limitation of our very limited human perceptions. But this is the way it should be.  Everything that happens has a perfect reason for being.  It is necessary to experience the agreeable as well as the disagreeable in order to know the difference. We need to live through 'Heaven and Hell' in order to choose. It's that simple.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   First, there is something beyond normal consciousness. Somehow, I understood that my thoughts or ability to reason was very connected to what purely terrestrial rationality, seeming more like a computer processor, is becoming aware that I exist, that I am something, and continue to be. By becoming aware of myself I discover how to be.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I can say from that experience began a point of no return toward my eternal father, God, divine source; an awakening of consciousness that of course has influenced me in all aspects of my life.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I believe that everything in the experience is difficult to describe in words or perhaps emotionally since I think one leaves the time-space parameters that our mind deals with in ordinary reality.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Knowing that I exist as something.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I tried to bring it up with my husband, but he didn't give it any importance. I also mentioned it to a psychotherapist, but I didn't describe it. I only said that I had changed my way of seeing life.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard stories of this kind perhaps on television and had read about some out of body experiences and reincarnation. But my experience wasn't like those others.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Since returning to normal reality, I have relived the experience. Coincidentally, the day Princess Diana died, I dreamed about part of the experience, of those colors that spoke and had consciousness, who judged one and belonged to a dimension that exists in another place in space.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Before I was a skeptic when it came to spiritual things or the continuation of our beings. I believe my understanding was primitive, to be sure, scarcely realizing I was something more than a body still very connected to the known, material world of this life. Today I believe by an accumulation of knowledge that is never destroyed but rather stored eternally within the atoms, it is possible that the memory of a computer can become aware of its own existence, can become conscious of itself.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Only the dream I mentioned which occurred months afterwards.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Well, perhaps recalling the experience, my feelings were those of birth, like 'from this point I began,' I began really to be.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It is very interesting to hear of all these experiences because they have an influence on people and give us to know that in order to arrive at a spiritual goal, you can't go after it. It will arrive of its own accord to touch each person's consciousness just at the right moment.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1veronica_a_probable_nde.html