{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vanna_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Vanna S NDE 23075","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vanna S NDE 23075  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Vanna S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4068 Vanna S NDE 23075  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was above myself looking down, as I was placed in the ambulance. I was flanked by two unknown presences that were supportive, but didn't speak. That is all I remember. I believe it was a sign for me to move forward toward healing, noble suffering, and to find more healing. I began a spiritual path of meditation and began to experience more, deeper spiritual states. Like being a small thread in a weave created in a giant field of fabric. A presence said I was unimportant. That was a sense of relief. After holding that space for a while, I felt that the only important thing was for me to be of service to my students.  I felt I could do that by letting them be supported and encouraged in the arts of drawing, painting, and creativity. In another meditation, I sensed a being of light and felt my own light emerge inside me. I wept. I tried to embody that feeling of light. Another time, I sensed that: 'This is the one that never dies' and I felt a sense of light and freedom in my being. I think that anything experienced in an out of body experience can be had inside the body in this life, also. I now believe that any time I'm triggered by someone, or have strong feelings and reactions to them, that says more about who I am than anything about them.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female


    NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Suicide attempt.          If they hadn't pumped my stomach there might have been a life-threatening situation.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I don't remember any form, maybe I was entirely me but I just was looking down on myself.

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      I felt alert

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt alert

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There were two beings flanking me, being very supportive of me.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I had no emotions; I was interested in what was happening.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I went to lots of therapy and read a lot.  Years later, I went on a spiritual journey to find out if there was more to life than suffering. I found great joy and relief. I still work hard with my difficulties but now I believe I have real knowledge.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     If I had not had this experience I may have just given up on life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Personal relationships I'm more tolerant of people's personalities. My 32-year marriage has gotten more interesting. I can stand up in front of 20 students and talk to them.  

After the NDE:

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     No  No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That my parents were so upset. The best was that I liked the self that was observing me and that I wasn't alone.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I spoke to my meditation teacher about it for the first time a few months ago. I went to a NDE, OBE meeting recently.  Things make so much sense to me now.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Early on in my meditation practice.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vanna_s_nde.html