{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1valerie_k_other.html","mytitle":"Valerie K Other 21664","mylang":"de"}
          	        Valerie K Other 21664  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Valerie K Other  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1230 Valerie K Other 21664  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It was January or February, 1968. I had been visiting with a friend of mine that lived in the apartment three doors down from me. It was just a typical Saturday afternoon. My friend’s boyfriend came to see her and brought a friend with him. He wanted to know if the two of us would like to go to the stock car races with the two of them. We decided it might be fun so I went to my apartment to get a jacket while they waited for me. I was just at the doorway of my apartment, when suddenly I found myself walking in a thickly forested area. Looking around me, I realized I was in a jungle following a small group of soldiers (American). The two soldiers at the end of the line stopped and turned when I stumbled over a vine and helped me through a thickly wooded area. They did not seem surprised to see me (a civilian) there although they acknowledged my presence.

After walking a ways with them, I realized I was in Viet Nam. I talked with the soldiers quietly as we walked along. Then I realized that a very close friend of mine was the soldier in the lead. (He was the only soldier there that I knew.) I excused myself from the companionship of the two soldiers walking with me and started to walk to the front of the line to talk to my friend. (This friend and I were very close in high school and I was glad to see him again.) As I neared the front of the line, another soldier grabbed my arm and restrained me just before I reached him. Just then, we heard the click. My friend had stepped on a land mine. The force of the explosion threw me backward against a tree. I screamed as blood splattered my body.

The next instant found me again in the doorway of my apartment, I heard the sound of feet running as my friend, and the two boys waiting for me came to see what had happened. They found me standing in the doorway with my hands braced against the door jam on each side. I had blood and dirt splattered on my clothes and face and my right shoulder was painfully swollen and turning black. It had been dislocated when I hit the tree. We did not go to the races that day; it took some time before my friends could calm me down. I have had many such experiences and wasn't upset about that, but the fact of what I had just seen happen with my dear friend.

The problem with my shoulder, although it was reset, has persisted to this day. The doctors cannot understand the problem with it!  It had been a normal day, I was under no stress, nor was I ill in any way. I was wide awake when it occurred. I was not taking any medication or on any kind of drugs and was not attempting to have any such experience. I used to think my experiences were some sort of out of body experience but as I've heard other people talk I think my experiences may be more like Astral Projections. They happen often. Sometimes with physical evidence afterwards and sometimes not.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    Numerous occurrences since age 3 (am 59 now)

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No     None of the above   Just a normal afternoon for me. I decided to go to the races with some of my friends. We thought it might get cold later so I went into my apt. of a jacket before we left. My friends were waiting for me..


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was wide awake.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    All my senses were intact. I heard the muffled steps of the soldiers, the rustle of leaves on the trees, the caws of birds, I smelled the damp musty loam in the jungle, felt the humidity against my skin.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I was in the jungle in Viet Nam. I saw no creatures there, only the soldiers I walked with, although I did hear birds.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     Just the soldiers.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   Not like a big bright light like some talk about in near death experiences. The only light was splashes here and there as it found its way down through the canopy of the trees.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      First- curiosity at where I was

Then joy- at seeing my friend there.

Next shock and horror- at seeing him step on the land mine and the results.

Later grief-at the loss of my friend.

And finally, fear- after I received a letter from my mother two weeks later confirming what I had witnessed right down to the day and hour of the happening. I did not ever want to experience anything that horrible again.

Later- following my grief, reconciliation- to the happenings that have always been a part of my life.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     There was no way anyone could have known about this event before it happened. And as I said, it was confirmed in a letter two weeks later, when my mother wrote me to tell me about it.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Not really future, I was just there at the exact time and place where it happened.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was seeing my friend one last time. The worst part was the loss of my friend.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I am very careful who I share these experiences with. I use lesser experiences to feel my way in before I relate some of my heavier experiences, like this one. Few people know of my experiences. And of those that do, I'm not sure even all of them believe me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I have had numerous events both before and after this one.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I knew about the war in Viet Nam as everyone else at that time did, but I did not think about it one way or the other. I was not involved with any antiwar movements nor did I even care enough to read or keep up with any news about it. I don't know why I was projected to Viet Nam, except to maybe see my friend one last time.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      You might ask more about any physical manifestations present following the episode.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1valerie_k_other.html