{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1valerie_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Valerie H NDE 3172","mylang":"de"}
          	        Valerie H NDE 3172  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Valerie H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1258 Valerie H NDE 3172  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The first time this happened to me I didn't really understand what was happening. I was very ill and had not yet been diagnosed with a heart condition. I was lying in bed with my husband and I was feeling very sick, my ears started to ring and then I was looking down at myself and my husband and I did not feel sick anymore at all. I had no bad feelings only good ones. Then I was back in my sick body feeling sick again.

The second time was different because I knew what would happen. I had to go for a test to diagnose my condition. They had to cause the episode to see how my body would react. I was afraid because I knew I was going to die and I didn't know if they would be able to bring me back. I was not afraid of being dead but I was afraid of dying it is the most horrible feeling while you're still alive but on the edge. I was also afraid for my family. I made sure they all knew that if anything ever happened to me, not to be sad because I am okay. I also prayed.

The Episode: At first, I feel very, very sick, and then I start to go numb from my hands and feet all the way to my tongue. My body becomes completely saturated with sweat. Then my ears begin to ring and I can't see anymore but I can still hear and think. I feel sick and scared; I have no strength to breath. Then I cannot hear anything. Suddenly I can see again, but from a different angle, both episodes I was above to the left of my body looking down.

  					  I feel very different; I do not feel sick at all, I had no bad feeling what so ever. My mind thought, 'HMM... HMM, HMM... HMM, HMM.' I did not realize bad things were happening; I was like an innocent child humming. Even though I was looking down at my body and saw people working on me, I was not afraid, nor was I worried about my family. I could hear the nurses calling my name but, I paid no attention to them, I didn't realize I was 'Val.' I began floating backwards toward the open door to the hallway and then into the hallway. There were two men walking in the hallway saying, 'Did you see any cables for this?' I remember wishing I could help them. Then I could hear someone calling 'Valerie!' and I recognized my name and started to listen to them say, 'Come back to me, breath,' and I did, then I was back inside my body and I felt sick again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  approximately 2003 and again on 7/15/04

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    'Neurocardiogenic Attack During test for Neurocardiogenic sycope'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I have a heart condition that causes may heart rate to drop, my blood pressure to drop until it is gone.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   When I could see and hear again from above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I could see and hear again from above.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Doorway to hallway.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Pleasant, peacefulness, content, no fear - all good and no bad.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I only told my husband at first. I didn't want people to think I was crazy, I still don't.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   Definitely did not believe in it until it happened to me.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it is real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have episodes where I lose consciousness and I plan to look at things up high that I would not normally see at my height, so I can prove reality.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1valerie_h_nde.html