{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V34 1947-48","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v34_1947-48.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V34 1947-48","mylang":"de"}
JOURNAL
of the
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXXIV
1947 - 1948
For private circulation among Members
and Associates only
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
31 Tavistock Square •
London •
WCi
All rights reserved
So I
"2?
> .
CONTENTS / / •
[
PAGE
Annual Report for 1946 - -- -- - - -
4
Telepathy and Electromagnetic Waves - - - - - 7-10
A New Case of Disturbed Coffins in Barbados - - - -11-12
Annual General Meetings - - - - - - - -16, 219
Annual Accounts - - - - - - - "
- -17, 170
Case : Precognitive Dream - - - - - - - 21
Case : Veridical Information given by a Medium of Matters outside
the Sitter's Knowledge - - - - - - - 22
Donations - -- -- -- -- 25, 122
Some Recent Communications received through Miss Cum^mins - 32
Mass Experiments on the Psi Cognition of Drawings - - -
43
Case : Forecasts of Horse Races ------ 63
Case : A Case of Premonition ------- 6g
Case : Veridical Information obtained through an Ouija Board - 70
Case : Poltergeist at Netherfield - - - - - - 71
Case : A Case of Apparent Retrocognition ----- 74
Psychic Phenomena in Indonesia - - - - - -_8o
1 Research Officer's Notes --------85
Broadcast Talks on Implications of Psychical Research - - 87
Case : Three Apparently Precognitive Dreams - - - - 91
Case : A Recent Investigation of Some Unusual '
Psychic Pheno-
mena '
- - - - - - - - - -
93
The Appeal to Physical Mediums ------ 94
Prediction of the Date of the End of the War - - _ - 103
Note on the Reactions of an Audience to a Simple Experim.ent with
Pendulums - -- -- -- -- 107
E.S.P. Tests : A Summar}- of Results ----- 109
Cambridge University Psychical Research Group - - - 1 1
1
Experimental Investigation by the Cambridge Psychical Research
Group - - - - - - - - - -112
Library Notice - - - - - - - - - -119
Trinity College Perrott Studentship - - - - - 123, 290
A Verified Reference in Automatic Writing - - - - 124
An Unfulfilled Precognitive Dream ------ 124
A Case of Apparent Retrocognition - -, - - - - 125
Recent Cases of Hauntings - - - - - - -129
111
IV Contents
PAGE
Annual Report for 1947 - -- -- -- - i^-j
Result of Prize Offer to Physical Mediums - - - - -i53
Case : Coincidence or Precognition ?- - - - - -i55
Case: An Apparently Precognitive Dream - - - - - ^57
Emergence of an Apparently Pseudo-Communicator - - - lyj
Mass-Observation Questionnaire on Hallucinations - - - 187
Family Telepathy ----- - - - - 196
'
Out-of-the-Body ' Experience - - - - - - - 206
Some Experiments in Divining ------- 220
An Unsuccessful Attempt to locate Water by Divination - - 222
A Note on the Mass-Observation Questionnaire on Hallucinations 223
The Kenneth Richmond Memorial Books ----- 239
New Course on Psychical Research at Morley College - - - 240
A New Periodical - -- -- -- -- 240
Editorial Note - - - - - - - - -241, 302
Notices to Members - - - - _ ^ ; _ _ 257,314
Programme of Films - - - - - - - - -261
Course of Lectures on Practical Psychical Research - - - 262
The Esarp Tragedy -------- - 263
Investigation of a Case of Xenoglossy ----- 267
The O. J. L. Posthumous Packet ------ 269
The Fox Sisters and the Development of Spiritualism - - 271
The '
Haunted '
Dance Hall ------- 294
Precognitive Dreams and the Dunne Experiment - - - ^oo
New Members 1-2, 14, 30, 62, 90, 102, 122, 146, 169, 218, 259, 315
Meetings of the Council
'
3, 14, 31, 62, 90, 91, loi, 103, 122, 147, 175, 218, 259, 314
Meetings of the Society
3, 13, 17, 29, 31, 61, 62, 89, 102, 175, 219, 259, 263, 315
Correspondence - - -
25, 55, 119, 139, 160, 177, 224, 242, 305
Reviews - - - 27, 88, 98, 117, 165, 183, 211, 237, 250, 286, 310
Obituaries - - - - - - 12, 25, 94, 95, 238, 290, 314
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
Jan.-Feb., 1947 - " Vol. XXXIV—No. 631-632
CONTENTS
PAGE
New Members - i
Meetings of Council -
3
Meetings of the Society ------ -
3
Annual Report for 1946 ------ -
4
Telepathy and Electromagnetic Waves by A. J. B. Robertson 7
A New Case of Disturbed Coffins in Barbados - - - 11
Obituarj' : Sir Ernest Bennett - - - - - - 12
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 23 October 1946)
Coggin, M. E. H., M.A., Roskilde, Totnes, Devon.
Cuimingham, P. S. G., 66a King's Road, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Gilbert, W., 213 Woodcote Road, Purley, Surrey.
Herbert-Jones, J., M.Sc, Cartref, Terrick, Butlers Cross, nr Aylesbury,
Bucks.
Hill, Captain G. U., 38 Morrison Avenue, Bournemouth West.
RidgT^ray, A., 5 Cecil Court, Hollywood Road, Chelsea, London, S.W. 10.
Sandover, R. L., D.S.O., Knoll Lodge, 39 The Ridgeway, Sanderstead,
Surrey.
Shaw, C, 53 St John's Road, Petts Wood, Orpington, Kent. ,
Sills, H. D., Christ's Hospital, Horsham, Sussex.
Steuart, Mrs M. D., Down, Whimple, Devon.
Vearnals, S. A., 47 Wimborne Road, Poole, Dorset.
Wellman, Miss A., 350 West 55th Street, New York 16, U.S.A.
Winspear, G. D., Hazeldene, Darlington Lane, Durham Road, Stockton-
on-Tees, Co. Durham.
[Elected 2 December 1946)
Anderson, D. S., Ph. D., Braehead, East Montrose Street, Helensburgh,
Dunbartonshire.
Bates, Mrs R., Torr, 1 1 Riddlesdown Avenue, Purley, Surrey.
Chiplin, G. E., Corner House, Fishery Lane, Eastoke, Hayling Island,
Hants.
2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1947
Damas, Professor L., 62 Rue de I'Eglise, Mont-sur-Marchienne,
Belgium.
Eisenbud, J., M.D., 145 West 58th Street, New York 19, U.S.A.
French, Lady Essex, 32 Sheldon Avenue, Highgate, London, N. 6.
Laker, J. H. C, 353 The White House, Albany Street, London, N.W. i.
MacLaughlin, Mrs N. H., 13 Park Crescent, Portland Place, London,
W. I.
•
Proctor, J. D., Court in Holmes, Forest Row, Sussex.
Pryor, Captain A., 13 London Street, Chertsey, Surrey.
Ridgway, Miss G. W., 32 Sheldon Avenue, Highgate, London, N. 6.
Sampimon, Dr D. F. H., Boulevard Heuvelink 58, Amheim, Holland.
Spong, A. Noel, Penland Farm, Steyning, Sussex.
Wright, K. A., 15 Hazledene Road, Chiswick, London, W. 4.
Yuill, E., Noi-wood, Towthorpe Lane, Haxby, York.
Student-Associates
Andrew, A. M., 13 Torwood Avenue, Larbert, Stirlingshire.
Place, Miss D. E., Sowber Gate, Northallerton.
* .
'•
(Elected g January 1947) .
.
Ashmore Baker, C, The Manor House, Alphingtbn, Exeter, Devon.
Dutton, C. F., 14 Cyncoed Road, Cardiff.
Gardner, E. K., Avalon, 41 Syke Ings, Iver, Bucks.
Gough, Mrs A. B., 4 Albion Villas, Folkestone, Kent.
Griffith, Rev. M. L., 5 St Martin's Place, London, W.C. 2.
Irving-Bell, Dr R. J., 5A Oakfield Road, Clifton, Bristol, 8.
Lee, Miss L, R., 6324 Georgeland Avenue, Detroit 4, Mich., U.S.A.
Leslie, Captain L. A. D., 32 Gordon Place, London, W. 8. ,
Millard, Dr C. Killick, The Gilroes, Leicester. '
Munro, Miss B. D., Red Lion House, Watlington, Oxford.
Panayotou, Dr P., 102 Oakley Street, London, S.W. 3.
Rolfe, Mrs M., 17 Sheffield Terrace, London, W. 8.
Sivudu, R. Venkata, Danavayipet, Rajahmundry, Madras Presidency,
India.
Strutt, Mrs Gerald, Newhouse, Terling, Chelmsford, Essex.
Strutt, Hon. Mrs J. A., 18 Hyde Park Square, London, W. 2.
Toksvig, Miss Signe, Bethel, Conn., U.S.A.
Varley, H., 14 Fog Lane, Didsbury, Manchester 20.
»
Student-Associate
Western, A. M., 23 Langland Gardens, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
JAN.-FEB. 194^ Meetings of Council 3
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 41 8th Meeting of the Council was held at 3 1 Tavistock Square, London,
W.C. I, on Wednesday, 23 October 1946, at 3 p.m. The President in the
Chair. There were also present : Miss Bosanquet, Mrs Goldney, Mrs
Heywood, Miss Jephson, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr
Parsons, Mr Salter, Mrs Salter, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, the Rev.
C. D. Thomas and Dr Thouless ; also Mr West, Research Officer, and
Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed as
correct. Thirteen new Members were elected ; their names and addresses
are given above.
The 419th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Monday, 2 December 1946, at 2.30 p.m. The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Miss Bosanquet, Mrs
Goldney, Mrs Heywood, Lord Charles Hope, Miss Jephson, the Hon.
Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr Parsons, Professor H. H. Price, Mr
W. H. Salter, Dr S. G. Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, the Rev. C. D.
Thomas and Dr Thouless ; also Mr West, Research Officer, and Miss
E. M. Horsell, Asst.-Secretar}^
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed as
correct. Fifteen new Members and two Student-Associates were elected ;
their names and addresses are given above.
The 420th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, at 4 p.m. The President in the Chair. There were also
present: Miss Bosanquet, Mrs Oliver Gatty, Mrs Goldney, Mrs Hey-
wood, Lord Charles Hope, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E.,
Mr W. H. Salter, Dr S. G. Soal and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt ; also
Mr West, Research Officer, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Asst.-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct.
Seventeen new Members and' one Student-Associate were elected ;
their names and addresses are given above.
PRIVATE MEETINGS
The 190th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on
Saturday, 9 November 1946, at 3.30 p.m. The President in the Chair.
A paper entitled " Emanuel Swedenborg : His Life in Two Worlds " was
read by Dr E. J. Dingwall.
The 191st Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on
Saturday, 30 November 1946, at 3.30 p.m. The President in the Chair.
A paper entitled " The Psi Processes in Normal and Paranormal Psycho-
logy " by Dr R. H. Thouless and Dr B. P. Wiesner was read.
The 192nd Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on
Thursday, 9 January 1947, at 6.45 p.m., when Mr D. A.- H. Parsons
read a paper on "A Critical Review of the Published Work on Psycho-
Kinesis".
4 * Jourfial of Society for Psychical Research ^an.-feb. 1947
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR 1946
1 . Once again the Council are pleased to be" able to record a very
substantial increase in membership of the Society.
2. Research Officer. In May the Council appointed Mr D. J. West
Research Officer of the Society, with effect from midsummer. Mr West,
whose work in connection with various branches of research, and also with
the editorship of the Combined Index for Proceedings and Journal, is well
known to our members, will devote his full time to the S.P.R. as soon as
his medical studies are completed. Since his appointment Mr West has
been actively engaged in all kinds of research coming within the scope of
an Officer of the Society. He is now in residence in the upper part of
31 Tavistock Square. It is hpped that his appointment may help to promote
a greater activity in research than has been possible until recently, and
that in this policy all our members will heartily co-operate.
3. Report of Research Officer. In the field of experimental E.S.P., efforts
have been mainly directed towards securing a successful percipient.
Various subjects have been tested with cards and drawings. Advertisements
have been inserted in the Press asking for persons confident of their tele-
pathic powers. A group of members interested in this work has been
meeting on Tuesday evenings for the purpose of testing likely subjects.
So far no positive results have been obtained.
A group telepathic experiment with drawings was carried out in July,
but no evidence of paranormal faculty was found. A mass experiment with
drawings was performed on December ist, but the results are not yet known.
Mediumistic research has been restricted by the difficulty in procuring
the services of a satisfactory medium. About a dozen mediums have
allowed themselves to be tested (including a direct voice medium), but
with one slight exception they gave no evidence of paranormality.
Experiments in psychometry with absent sitters are in progress, Mr
John Mayes acting as medium. Each person whose object or letter is
" psychometrised " is given five readings to annotate, without being told
which one was intended for them. In this way it is possible to obtain an
objective statistical check on the individual appropriateness of the psycho-
metric readings. The results so far have been promising.
Cases of spontaneous psychic occurrences have been reported with
slightly increasing frequency. They are all followed up as far as circum-
stances permit. Although most of them have points of interest, only a small
proportion reach the evidential standard desirable for printing in the
Journal. Some interesting cases of haunting have been investigated. The
Council wish to thank several members of the Society for reporting
spontaneous cases or for assisting in their investigation.
Inquiries have been initiated into the subjects of paranormal healing
and the Society has been fortunate in securing the co-operation of Mr
Harry Edwards, the well-known psychic healer.
The Working Group, which is open to all members wishing to take part
in current activities, was re-formed in May, and has been meeting regularly
on alternate Thursdays at 6.45 p.m. Meetings of the Group have so far
been devoted to informal discussions, talks, telepathy experiments, sittings
with mediums and demonstrations by a hypnotist and a dowser.
JAN.-FEB. 1947 Annual Report for 1946 5
Owing to limitations of printing, it is not possible to give a full report of
all the investigations carried out by the Society, many of which yield
inconclusive or negative results, but any member wishing further in-
formation may, on application, consult some of the detailed accounts
contained in the Research file.
4. Psycho-kinesis. About a year ago Mr Whately Carington began a
series of experiments in psycho-kinesis. This subject involves problems
likely to be of great importance to the Society's work, inasmuch as the
relation of mental and physical factors appears to be closer than could be
demonstrated in any other phenomena. Mr Carington is at the same time
engaged on a study of the theoretical aspects of the phenomena which it is
hoped will ultimately be published in book form. To enable him to carry
on this important work the Council have made him a grant of f^zoo for
the year.
The Research Officer and others have been unsuccessful in their
attempts to reproduce Rhine's dice-throwing effects. Mr D. H. Hyde and
Mr Denys' Parsons, who both reported some experiments in Proceedings,
have completed further series with chance results.
5. Publicity. The Pamphlet issued by the Society towards the end of
1945 and mentioned in the last Annual Report has promoted knowledge
of the Society's work in the Press and among the public generally. In
consequence of favourable notices of the Pamphlet in the Observer for
August loth, and in the Guardian and Nature, there was so great a popular
demand for it that the first issue was rapidly exhausted and a second issue
of 1,000 was printed. This reprint has also sold well.
Encouraged by the success of the original Pamphlet the Council are
making arrangements for the printing of other pamphlets of about the
same size, which will deal rather more fully with particular aspects of the
Society's history and work. It will be made clear in each of the new
pamphlets that while it is issued with the Council's approval, the author
alone is responsible for any opinions expressed in it.
The Council receives frequent requests from persons up and down the
country to provide lecturers, and these requests are as far as is practicable
met by sending down some speaker with knowledge of the subject. They
regret that distance, and the many duties that Officers of the Society have
to perform, sometimes make it impossible to comply with these requests.
6. The Questionnaire. The Council wish to express their cordial thanks
to 196 members who were good enough to answer the Questionnaire issued
in February. Mr Parsons and Mrs Sendall have analysed the results for
the Council and a brief summary of the analysis appears in the Journal
for December. The Council welcome the suggestions made by members
for the conduct of the Society's business, several of which they hope to be
able to carry into eftect. The replies to the Questionnaire showed that
there were many members of the Society who would be glad of advice as
to the conduct of sittings with different types of mediums, and as to the
appreciation and assessment of the results obtained. To meet the wishes
of such members the Council appointed a Committee of persons with
considerable experience of sittings, who have drawn up some " Hints " as
to the conduct and evaluation of sittings, of which copies can be obtained
on request.
6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1947
7. Presidency. Mr Tyrrell was re-elected President of the Society for a
second term of office. On October 8th he delivered an Address, " The
Modus Operandi in Paranormal Cognition ", which will shortly be
published in Proceedings.
8. Endowment Fund. Professor Dodds has been appointed a trustee of
this Fund in place of the late Mr H. F. Saltmarsh.
9. Donations. The Council wish to acknowledge with the warmest
thanks several donations which have been particularly welcome at a time
when all-round increases in costs make the balancing of the Society's
budget difficult. They wish to make special mention of a most generous
gift of £1,000 from Lord Rayleigh, a former President, and also two
donations, already acknowledged in the Journal, from American members.
10. Proceedings and Journal. Mrs Salter, who has edited the Proceedings
for thirty years, for the first few years as Editor but for most of the time as
Hon. Editor, having expressed a wish to be relieved of these duties,
Mr Tyrrell kindly consented to add the duties of Hon. Editor to those of
President. The Council wish to take this opportunity of thanking Mrs
Salter very cordially for her long services.
The Editorship of the Journal having become vacant through Mr Rich-
mond's death, the Hon.' Secretary agreed to act as Hon. Editor of the
Journal for the time being.
11. Discussion Meetings. As announced in the Journal it is intended
that during 1947 Discussion Meetings should be held regularly on the
first Thursday of every month, and that some of the meetings should be
devoted to an account of the past work of the Society in various lines. It
is thought that talks of this kind might be helpful to the large number of
new members of the Society who are not already familiar with the Society's
history, and who in consequence find some difficulty in following reports
of research which though recent in time has its roots in past work.
12. Foreign Members. News continues to be received from various parts
of Europe of members of the Society with whom the Society has perforce
been out of touch during the years of the war. Every eftort is being made
to establish contact with such members arid to co-operate with them in
research wherever practicable, but there are still parts of the Continent to
which it is not at present possible to forward the Society's Proceedings and
Journal.
'
13. Memorial to Kenneth Richmond. A Committee was formed to
organise the purchase of books in memory of Kenneth Richmond, from
funds subscribed by members and friends. The members of the Commit-
tee are the President, Mrs Richmond, the Hon. Mrs C. H. Gay and Mr D.
Parsons. A shelf in the Library has been set aside and an engraved plate
will be affixed. It was decided that it would be appropriate to choose such
books as would help to make up the Library's deficiency in works on
psychology and philosophy. A number have been put on order.
14. Library. During the year 835 books were borrowed by Members
and 74 books were borrowed by the National Central Library for Students.
15. Membership of the Society. 109 new Members and 10 Student-
Associates were elected. The total loss from deaths, resignations, etc., is
28, leaving a net increase of 91 in the total membership, which now
stands at 764. Among the losses by death the Council regret to record
JAN.-FEB. 1947 Annual Report for 1946 7
the name of Professor W. Macneile Dixon, a member of long standing,
and for some years a member of Council.
16. Publications. Two parts of Proceedings were published during the
year, the App. to Part 171 and Part 172.
The Secretary's sales to the general public amounted to 12 4
and to members of the Society ^'j'j o 9 ; and ^59 2 o to members and
the public through the Society's agent in the United States.
17. Meetings.
27 Feb. Annual General Meeting.
" The Mediumship of Mrs Helen Duncan " by Mr D. J. West.
10 July. " The Telepathic Explanation of Apparitions " by Mr D. J.
West.
8 Oct. " The Modus Operandi in Paranormal Cognition " by the
President.
9 Nov. " Em^knuel Swedenborg: His Life in Two Worlds " by Dr
E. J. Dingwall.
30 Nov. " The Psi Processes in Normal and Paranormal Psychology
"
by Dr R. H. Thouless and Dr B. P. Wiesner.
7 Dec. " Emanuel Swedenborg " by Miss Signe Toksvig.
Discussion Meetings.
10 Jan. Mrs W. H. Salter on " Possible and Less Possible Lines of
Research ".
7 Feb. Mrs W. Sitwell on " The Tibetan Book of the Dead ".
7 Mar. Mrs de Beausobre on "A Child's Perception: is it an extended
Sensory Perception or a Mental Activity?
"
4 Apl. Brigadier R. C. Firebrace on " The Direct Voice Home Circle ".
2 May. Mr L C. Grondahl on " Intuition and Mysticism ".
6 June. Miss D. E. Traill on "A Beginner looks at Psychical Research ".
4 July. Countess Nora Wydenbruck on " Psychometry ".
3 Oct. Mr A. D. Howell Smith on "Antiquity and Psychical Research '.
7 Nov. Dr A. J. B. Robertson on " Is a Physical Theory of Telepathy
possible?
"
5 Dec. Mrs Longman on " Proxy Sittings ".
TELEPATHY AND ELECTROMAGNETIC WAVES
By A. J. B. Robertson
In the discussion given here on the possibility of a relation between tele-
pathic phenomena and electromagnetic radiation it will be assumed as an
empirical fact of observation that the transmission of impressions and
thoughts from one mind to another can occur in some manner which has
not yet been related to ordinary sensory perception, although this question
might still be regarded as controversial.
Sir William Crookes in his presidential address to the Society for
Psychical Research in 1897 made the provisional suggestion that electro-
magnetic radiation from one brain to another might be a possible mode
of telepathic action. In more recent discussions of telepathy, however, any
.8 - ' Journal of Society for Psychical Research JAN.-FEB. 1947
such possiblity has been dismissed in somewhat definite terms. Thus
W. W. Carington (i) considers telepathy to be a phenomenon outside the
physical world of matter and energy, and he strongly emphasises the im-
possibility of it having anything whatever to do with wireless at all or any
other sort of radiation phenomena. Again S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney
(2) remark that adoption of Bergson's theory of memory precludes any
view regarding the telepathic process as a transmission from one brain to
another after physical models like electric waves.
In support of views of this kind a number of arguments are usually ad-
vanced. Thus the intensity of uniformly radiating energy diminishes with
increasing distance from the source of radiation according to the inverse
square law, whereas telepathic communication does not seem to diminish
in the same way. Hence it is argued that telepathy is not associated with
radiant energy. Another difficulty raised against a physical theory is that a
code is normally required in transmitting thoughts. In broadcasting, for
example, the ordinary code of speech, or a morse code miy be used. The
idea of some special coding mechanism in the brain for telepathic trans-
mission is considered unreasonable. The question of how a telepathic
message reaches the right percipient is frequently raised as a difficulty for
physical theories. More recently precognition is supposed by some in-
vestigators to have finally eliminated the possibility of physical theories.
Sometimes experiments on the screening of telepathic subjects are quoted
as evidence against radiation theories.
It seems possible, however, to express some doubts as to whether these
arguments against the possibility of the telepathic process involving the use
of electromagnetic waves do in fact finally settle the question. A number of
observations might be made in connection with the inverse square law.
When it is argued that a radiative theory of telepathy requires a diminution
of telepathic influence with increasing distance, the assumption is made that
the intensity of the radiation incident on the brain of the percipient is the
predominating factor in stimulating the appropriate telepathic image.
Now a number of physical and biological systems are known where an
effect produced by a certain stimulus does not depend on the size of that
stimulus within very wide limits, provided that it is above a certain
threshold value. Thus when a single nerve fibre is stimulated the magni-
tude of the resultant electrical disturbance transmitted along the fibre is
independent of the size of the stimulus in this way. Again the energy of
electrons emitted from a metal exposed to suitable electromagnetic
radiation depends on the frequency of the radiation and not on its intensity.
This question of telepathy and the inverse square law has been discussed
by B. Hoffmann (3) who considers that the usual arguments against
radiation theories confuse intensity with intelligibility, and goes on to give
some examples where a decline in the intensity of radiation according to
the inverse square law is not accompanied by any decline in intelligibility.
The possiblity might also be considered of a receptor mechanism having a
response proportional to the logarithm of the magnitude of the stimulus.
Then very large changes in radiation intensity could produce very much
smaller changes in the size of the response. Finally doubts might perhaps
be expressed from the experimental viewpoint as to the strength of the
evidence from which it is concluded that telepathic effects do not decline
JAN.-FEB. 1947 Telepathy atid Electromagnetic Waves gf
with distance. J. B. Rhine (4) in some earlier experiments observed a
disappearance of telepathy with several subjects with increasing distance,
but it is not clear to what extent this was a psychological phenomenon.
Other subjects continued to obtain very high scores with increasing dis-
tance. Very high scores of this kind have not, however, been maintained
as the telepathy experiments have become more rigorous, a feature which
might suggest the possibility of some defects in the earlier experiments.
The necessity for a code in telepathic transmission does not seem so
'
obvious if the process is visualised as the production of a certain complex
wave form by the agent, which on interacting with the brain of the per-
cipient produces impressions similar to those responsible for the original
wave form. The process would then resemble television broadcasting or
the making and playing of a gramophone record more closely than com-
munication of ideas with the speech code. What is needed for a direct
transmission would seem to be a mechanism rather than a code.
The question as to how a telepathic message reaches the right per-
cipient does not arise as a difficulty for physical theories in the usual ex-
perimental investigations on which the case for the occurrence of telepathy
is most frequently based, since the percipient is in general consciously
attempting to receive the message. In spontaneous cases the agent and
percipient are usually very well known to each other and it does not seem
inconceivable that some subtle specific associative relation based on
electromagnetic waves could develop in such cases. No detailed hypo-
thesis can be advanced in the present state of knowledge, but one might
note in this connection the very close relation between the emission and
absorption of electromagnetic radiation exemplified in atomic and molecu-
lar spectra. The brain is, of course, enormously complicated compared
with such systems.
A general association between telepathy and precognition is not by any
means clearly apparent in considering the bulk of work on telepathy. In
most telepathic experiments precognition has not been observed. One
may note in this connection that W. W. Carington's (5) statistical evalua-
tions of drawings do not always make a clear separation between retro-
cognition and precognition considered as two distinct phenomena, and
certain criticisms of the procedures have been advanced by C. E. Stuart (6)
and others (7). The experiments of S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney (2)
provide weighty evidence for a psi-faculty, but a number of hypotheses
alternative to that of precognition might be advanced to explain their find-
ings. In view of the large bulk of earlier work of various kinds in which
precognition was not noted, clearer experimental evidence would seem to
be desirable before telepathy and precognition is recognised as being in
general fundamentally associated. Another approach to this question has
been made by R. Wilson (8) who has pointed out that a physical mechan-
ism of telepathy might lead to precognition as a result of quantum in-
determinancy.
The effect of screening in telepathic experiments does not seem to have
been investigated in a systematic way. In such experiments consideration
would have to be given to the possibility of leakage of energy through
small apertures and to the propagation of electric waves in conducting
media (9). A discussion of some relevant points has appeared recently (10).
lo Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1947
It is very difficult to formulate any physical theory of telepathy except in
a very general way. A number of problems of some difficulty present them-
selves, vi^hich may, however, be clarified to some extent by increased
knowledge of the physics of biological systems. Little seems to be known
about the emission of electromagnetic radiation as a consequence of cere-
bral activity, although electrical phenomena in the brain are well known.
In connection with telepathic reception one might consider questions of
very specific interactions between radiation and matter, and the possibility
of very small stimuli producing relatively large effects by some magnifica-
tion process depending on a series of interdependent systems each in-
volving many processes giving over all steady state conditions. The ques-
tion of the association of sufficient complexity for telepathic images with
small radiative stimuli or a small number of quanta may perhaps bear
some resemblance to that of the production by the small number of atoms
in the chromatin network of complex order by replication, as recently dis-
cussed by A. J. C. Wilson (11) in reviewing some considerations of E.
Schroedinger from the viewpoint of psychical research.
The discussion given above is confined to interaction between two brains
through the intermediary of electromagnetic radiation. It might, however,
be permissible to speculate on the possibility of some other mode of long
range physical interactions with very complex systems, a mode not at pre-
sent known to science. If anything of this kind could be found a new
physical approach to telepathy would become possible.
To sum up, it seems that in attempting a rather general discussion of
telepathic phenomena it is possible to regard the usual arguments against
physical theories of telepathy as being rather less conclusive than they are
usually considered to be, and the theory of electromagnetic radiation
might be given the status of a working hypothesis to be tested by further
advances in the study of brain physiology and of telepathic phenomena.
REFERENCES
(1) W. W. Carington, " Telepathy : an outline of its facts, theory and
implications ", Methuen, 1945.
(2) S. G. Soal and K. M. Goldney, Proc. S.P.R., 47, 21, 1943.
(3) B. Hoffrnann, Jour. Parapsy., 4, 149, 1940.
(4) J. B. Rhine, " Extra-Sensory Perception ", Faber and Faber, 1935.
(5) W. W. Carington, Proc. S.P.R., 46, 34, 1940 ; 46, 277, 1941 ; 47,
155 1944
(6) C. E. Stuart, Jour. Parapsy., 8, 127, 1944.
(7) S. B. Sells, Jour. Parapsy., 4, 153, 1940.
(8) R. Wilson, Jour. S.P.R., 33, 121, 1945.
(9) G. Joos, " Theoretical Physics ", Blackie, 1934, Chap. 17.
(10) " Radiophare ", Wireless World, 51, 214, 314, 1945 : G. D. Dawson
and W. G. Walter, Wireless World, 51, 282, 1945.
(11) A. J. C. Wilson, Jour. S.P.R., 33, 242, 1946.
JAN.-FEB. 1947 A New Case of Disturbed Coffins in Barbados 11
A NEW CASE OF DISTURBED COFFINS
IN BARBADOS
Among the multifarious forms of poltergeist activity must be mentioned
the disturbance of coffins in vaults in circumstances apparently excluding
all normal agency, human or non-human. Several instances of this have
been reported, one of the best known being the case of the disturbances at
Arensburg, in the Baltic, discussed [Journal, XIII) by Count Solovovo and
others. Another well-known case is that of the Chase Vault, Christ Church,
Barbados, described by Commander R. T. Gould in his book Oddities.
In this latter case disturbances were discovered on several occasions when
the vault was opened between 18 12 and 1820.
It is curious that Barbados should recently ha\e provided another
instance of this not very common phenomenon. It appears from an article
by Sir A. Aspinall in The Journal of the Barbados Museiun and Historical
Society for May, 1945, that some leading Freemasons of Barbados, hearing
that the vault of Sir Evan AlacGregor, Governor of Barbados, which also
contained the remains of Alexander Irvine, the founder of Freemasonry- in
the island, was to be opened for repairs, met by arrangement in the church-
yard on the 24th August, 1943, just as the undertakers were beginning to
unseal the vault.
Sir A. Aspinall's account proceeds as follows :
"First of all the stone slabs over the steps leading down to the entrance
were removed, and the arched doorway which had been hermetically
sealed by a brick wall built after the burial of the Governor, was revealed.
Then brick by brick the wall was taken down. After a few bricks had
been removed the opening disclosed some metal object resting against
the inner side; then after more had been shifted it was seen that it was
the end of a large leaden coffin one end of which was propped up against
the wall, while the other rested on the floor. After the removal of the
last row of bricks the coffin came to rest on the floor of the vault, lying,
not parallel to the sides, but askew. It was the only coffin in the vault
and the inscription upon it proved that it was that of Sir Evan Mac-
Gregor. It read : [sir evan john murr,\y m.\cgregor, bt., [governor
OF BARBADOS, [DIED 14 JUNE 1841. Of Ir\'ine's coffin there was not the
slightest trace and the visitors came to the conclusion that it must have
been made of wood and have fallen to pieces when the Governor was
interred. But at the far end of the vault, on a stone ledge running the
entire length of the vault, were a skull and some bones—apparentlv all
that was left of Alexander Irvine.
Governor MacGregor's coffin was in perfect condition except for
three small holes where the lid had been soldered to the sides. It was
not opened, but a newspaper accoimt of the funeral stated that it
enclosed a mahogany coffin covered with crimson velvet. The coffin
was very long, as long indeed as the vauh.
The coffin was reverently replaced in its proper position along the
left side of the vault, leaving ample room for other coffins. How it came
. '
to be tipped up remains a myster^^ It could not have been originally
placed in the peculiar position in which it was found, resting against
12 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1947
the inside of the brick wall. It was plain that it must have been shifted
after the vault had been closed ; but by whom or what? If sufficient
bricks had been removed to permit anyone inside to get out of the vault
the coffin must have fallen, and it certainly could not have been raised
up on end from the outside into the fantastic position in which it was
found.
As was the case at Christ Church, there was not the slightest indica-
tion that floods or an earthquake were responsible for the derangement.
Had poltergeists been at work again? Who can say? The whole affair
remains a complete mystery."
We are indebted to Mr Charles Cave, one of the oldest members of the
Society, for calling our attention to this curious case.
OBITUARY
As we go to press we regret to learn of the death of Sir Ernest Bermett,
who had been a member of the Society since 1894 and was at the time of
his death the senior member of the Council to which he was co-opted in
1 90 1. When a young man he became a close friend of the Hon. Everard
Feilding, one of the very best investigators of physical phenomena, pol-
tergeists and haunted houses that the Society has ever possessed, and he
took part with Feilding in several enquiries. In 1906 he was elected to
Parliament and after that his main interest lay in politics in which he had
a long and successful career. When in 1934 a series of talks on psychical
research was given by the B.B.C. Sir Ernest Bennett gave the talk on
" Ghosts and Haunted Houses "which was afterwards printed in the little
book " Inquiry into the Unknown." His talk aroused wide interest and
resulted in many cases of haunted houses being communicated to him,
and formed the basis of the book " Apparitions and Haunted Houses
"
which he published in 1939. The issue of xhe. Journal for December 1946
contained a report by him of a poltergeist case which he had investigated
during the war.
The Accounts for the year ended 31 December 1946 were not to hand in
time to be printed in this issue of the Journal : they will be printed in the
next issue.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
March-April, 1947 Vol. XXXIV—No. 633-634
CONTENTS
PAGE
Discussion Meetings - - - - - - - 13
New Members
Meetings of the Council - - - - - - - 14
Annual General Meeting - - - - - - 16
Private Meetings - - - - - - - - ly
Annual Accounts - - - - - - - _ ly
Cases : Precognitive Dream - - - - - - 21
Veridical Information given by a medium of matters
outside the sitter's knowledge - - - 22
Obituary : W. Whately Carington ----- 25
Donation : Blennerhasseft Research Fund - - - 25
Correspondence - -- -- -- -25
Review - - - _ _ _ _ - .
27
DISCUSSION MEETINGS
The following Meetings will be held in the Society's Library, 31
Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i.
Thursday i May 1947 at 6.45 p.m.
The Research Officer, Dr D. J. West, on " The Work of the Society's
Research Department ".
Wednesday 14 May 1947 at 6.30 p.m.
Mr J. H. Bekker, F.R.A.I., on " Psychic Phenomena in Indonesia ".
Thursday 5 June 1947 at 6 p.m.
Mrs K. M. Goldney on " D. D. Home as a Study in testimony in
relation to Physical Phenomena ".
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1947
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 12 February 1947)
Clarke, K. E., 9 Bucks Avenue, Oxhey, Watford, Herts.
Cornforth, Miss D., 55A Palace Gardens Terrace, Kensington, London,
W. 8.
Crichlow, F. A., M.D., 57 Keate Street, San Fernando, Trinidad, B.W.I.
De Boni, G., M.D., via Malenza 2, Verona, Italy.
Drew, Miss A. M. C, Stoneleigh, Exmouth, Devon.
Fletcher, W. D., Pinderfields E.M.S. Hospital, Wakefield, Yorks.
Harris, A., 73 Southport Road, Ormskirk, Lanes.
Leslie, Mrs W. E., Byeways, Ninfield, nr Battle, Sussex.
Maddock, F. N., 27 Park Crescent, Enfield, Middx.
Routh, Lieut-Col. H. C. E., R.A., Oldhouses, Ipplepen, S. Devon.
Scott, H., M.B.E., School House, Sutton, Ely, Cambs.
Smith, F., 4 Beechwood Avenue, Sunbury-on-Thames, Middx.
Turtle, Mrs D. M., 21 Valley Road, Welvv'yn Garden City, Herts.
Weaver, H. E., 50 Chaldon Common Road, Upper Caterham, Surrey.
Yallop, J., Meece House Annexe, Cold Meece, Stone, Staffs.
Student-Associates
Baldwin, J. A., 211 Upper Fant Road, Maidstone, Kent.
Pringle, C. B., 15 Fitzroy Square, London, W. i.
Sharp, A. J., 116 Chapman Street, Heaton, Newcastle upon Tyne 6.
{Elected 26 February 1947)
Bacon, Mrs Alban, The Malt House, Burghclere, Newbury, Berks.
Shelley, K. E., K.C., 6 Pump Court, Temple, London, E.C. 4.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 421st Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 12 February 1947, at 2.30 p.m., The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Miss T. Bosanquet,
Mrs K. M. Goldney, Mrs Frank Heywood, Lord Charles Hope, Mr D. A.
H. Parsons, Mr W. H. Salter and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt ; also
Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
MAR.-APR. 1947 Meetings of the Council f > '
15
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed as
correct. Fifteen new Members and three Student-Associates were elected ;
their names and addresses are given above.
Miss Theodora Bosanquet was appointed an elected member of Council
to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Sir Ernest Bennett.
Brigadier R. C. Firebrace, Dr A. J. B. Robertson and Mr Richard Wilson
were co-opted members of Council for the current year.
The 422nd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 26 February 1947, at 3 p.m. The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Miss Bosanquet,
Brigadier R. C. Firebrace, Mrs Goldney, Mrs Frank Heywood, Mr
D. A. H. Parsons, Mr W. H. Salter, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, the
Rev. C. D. Thomas and Mr R. Wilson ; also Mr D. J. West, Research
Officer, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed as
correct. Two new Members were elected ; their names and addresses are
given above.
•
The 423rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, immediately after the Annual General Meeting. The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Miss Bosanquet,
Brigadier R. C. Firebrace, Mrs Frank Heywood, Mr D. K. H. Parsons,
Mr W. H. Salter, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, the Rev. C. D. Thomas
and Mr R. Wilson ; also Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
Mr W. H. Salter was unanimously elected President for the year.
Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt was re-elected Hon. Treasurer, Mr W. H.
Salter, Hon. Secretary, Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell, Hon. Editor of Proceedings,
and Miss T. Bosanquet, Hon. Editor of the Journal.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication : Professor C. D. Broad, Mrs
Frank Heywood, Mr D. A. H. Parsons, Professor H. H. Price, Mrs
W. H. Salter, Dr R. H. Thouless and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell.
Finance Committee : Mrs Goldney, Mr G. W. Lambert and Admiral the
Hon. A. C. Strutt.
House Committee : Miss L Jephson, Miss L Newton, Mr W. H. Salter
and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Library Committee : Professor E. R. Dodds, the Hon. Mrs Gay, Admiral
the Hon. A. C. Strutt and Mr. G. N. M. Tyrrell.
Publicity Committee : Miss T. Bosanquet, Mr D. A. H. Parsons, Mr
R. W. S. Pollard, Mrs Sendall and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell.
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were elected for the
year as follows :
Corresponding Members : President M. Butler, Dr Max Dessoir, Dr
G. H. Hyslop, Dr C. G. Jung, M. Maeterlinck, Dr Gardner Murphy,
Professor T. K. Oesterreuch, Dr J. B. Rhine, Dr R. Tischner, Mr C. Vett
and M. Warcoilier.
Honorary Associates : Miss H. Carruthers, Mr J. A. Hill, the Rev.
W. S. Irving, Dr Eva Morton, Mrs Kenneth Richmond, Professor C.
Sage, Mr B. Shackleton, Mr G. H. Spinney, Dr A. Tanagra, Dr W. H. C.
Tenhaeff, Dr R. H. Thouless, Miss Nea Walker and Dr Wereide.
1:6^' r Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1947
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was held at
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 26 February 1947,
at 3.30 p.m. The President in the Chair.
The following Members were present : Miss T. Bosanquet, Dr E. J.
Dingwall, Mrs Duddington, Dr A. J. E. Duddington, Brigadier R. C.
Firebrace, Mr G. W. Fisk, Mrs Goldney, Mr Grondahl, Miss Harding,
Mr S. G. Howell Smith, Miss Lea, Mrs Longman, Mr J. Fraser Nicol,
Mr D. A. H. Parsons, Mr W. H. Salter, Mr R. L. Sandover, Admiral the
Hon. A. C. Strutt, the Rev. C. D. Thomas, Mrs Turtle, Mr R. Wilson and
Mr K. E. Wright ; Mrs Parsons (Associate), and Miss L Newton and
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo (Hon. Members) ; also Mr D. J. West,
Research Officer, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Hon. Secretary having read the notice convening the Meeting, read
the Annual Report which had not been distributed to members before the
Meeting owing to current restrictions on the issue of periodicals. Copies
of the Journal containing the Report and copies of the Annual Accounts
were handed round to Members attending the Meeting.
In moving the adoption of the Report, the Hon. Secretary referred to the
loss which the Society had recently sustained by the death of its senior
member of Council, Sir Ernest Bennett, and also to the grave illness of
Mr Whately Carington. He proposed to send Mrs Carington a letter
expressing the good wishes of the Meeting.
He also read a letter from Mrs Blennerhassett in which she stated her
intention of increasing the Blennerhassett Fund from £1,000 to ^1,500 so
that the Fund might have an increase rather than suffer diminution owing
to the reduction in the rate of interest. The adoption of the Report was
seconded by Admiral Strutt, and carried unanimously.
The Hon. Treasurer presented the Accounts, and pointed out that the
Society was just paying its way, the balance in hand at the end of the year
being due to donations which had been received. He moved the adoption
of the Accounts, which was carried unanimously.
The Chairman announced that there were no candidates for election to
membership of the Council other than the six members who retired by
rotation. On the proposal of Mr Salter, seconded by the Rev. C. Drayton
Thomas, the following six members were accordingly unanimously
elected : Professor C. D. Broad, Mr Whately Carington, Professor E. R.
Dodds, Miss I. Jephson, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., and
Professor H. H. Price.
On the proposal of Admiral Strutt, seconded by Mr. Salter, Messrs. Miall,
Savage, Avery & Co. were re-elected Auditors for the forthcoming year.
MAR.-APR. 1947 Annual Accounts 17
PRIVATE MEETINGS
The 193rd Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on
Thursday, 6 February 1947, at 6.45 p.m., when Mr W. H. Salter read a
paper on " The History of Psychical Research ".
After the Annual General Meeting on February 26th the Research
Officer read an account of some recent experiments in psychometry.
Owing to the weather, Mrs Goldney's Discussion Meeting on D. D.
Home was postponed, and the meeting was devoted to informal discussion.
ANNUAL ACCOUNTS
[As mentioned at the Annual General Meeting, it was impossible to
arrange for the printing of the Society's accounts before the Meeting. A
copy of the accounts, as certified by the Auditors, is printed below.]
o O r-
X a to oo
CO
O iH CO
CO r-( (M
^+1
3
o
1-5
3 C4
. <^
o _
o
a
3 § c
I—t i—i
O: CO r-( CO rH M r-( CO »-i r-f
CM
Si
a S2 g>
O CD O ^ O
O O CC lO (M
o ts s
5'^
O
•a
£ s, s
t. „ gi s
^ S
c s 5
CO
'
s
5: ^ o
«> ^ ^ *7 Cj
Cj Co
s
o
00
CO o COt^
o iH rH
CO in
CO CO i-<
o_
of
a
o
s
O o3
" r
q z
a?
•a
C3
c
05
CO
c: c:
-t<(Mr-lO
'-^ rH C:
CO coo i-H <M CO OO
CO -Xi iC coo:
i-H rH
CI i-H O O O rH Oi-f
Ol uO
o 1-t CM .-. r?] CM
1—
1
P=H
CD
a> o
lOCDt
o •* o
OfMOl
c PS
^ •S 5
^ % ~ oj ^
•
g SB, =0031^
•So e
oo
oo
s a
S 5i *9 O
g ^ £ m
c a; ^
O CD ^
CO o 00 rH
l-t
CD CO COI>
1-H
t+i
s
2 ac.2
V § o tS
CO
9.^L
CD S
r CD
, 3p^ »
^ G -ij
a
c
C3
CS
o
H
! O O o t~
a}
B
CD
1=1
i S
tig g
o .574
=4
^ i ^ ^
e s;
^ -I^
=^ ^^^^
^
-
•a P ^
-a o
O X 00 o o
iH
rHOiOOiriCO
OO^r-l O
° «
" I art
Q ^ s.^ O
o
I—
I
H
P
O 3
s. =^ =^
S o o
v, .2 « a
;3 g c a
iH COO O CO
T—
1
I> i-l lO I> t-- 00
T-H I—
1
I>
X I—
i
C<1
3
^ S St:
« ^ ?:
S a.
S S ^
H
CO
K
OGO O CO
I—
1
CO
to o o
MO
i-H
Ol o
a
S
o
•o
0
o
p
c3
<D 3 O
-
a ft r-
s ^
o
0 0+^-^
5 !5
C3
a
c
^ ^ -a
C!3 O
O o
CO
o a
a o
a «
^ -^o o"- a
r^s^ O
^ CO CO CO M
o o o o o
c o o o
o o o o
^ 0 0 0 05
-+ O CO X I'-
a
+J
CS t3
CJ a
(-1 o
O O
o o o
o o
LO o 00
o
o CO
t+i
c*!
H a
o ca *^
-o cc
^
a ^
M CO <M
O M C>
n
C5
=0 .
S" CO
in Hi
<^ in
rH in
^ 2
.o
("^ a CO
• u a)
^ ,-*^ oj c6
' "a S
i IM i? 3
5 g " -<
> a "3
= ^ ° -
^^ o a ~
cs o d ^
•a i-i ca
a> CO o a>
a
J2
. a
in ce
in p,
§
-•^ ca
CO
I
>>
a
c3
p,
o
o
>>
C3
t/3
'.2 °
5« §
o s
a -o
a a
> -o
ca a °
•n 5 S
.£f g
o
-a
S
•a
ca
5
>.
'3
a
5
-a
Q CD
= "2
o
p5 fq
a
•§ «
a
o
a
^ .a
P a
H CO
oiinT^i>ooooo
i-i^^OOOlOOOO
oocicocrioiooor-^
incooOi-HOOinoco
C+lr-IC+i(NCOQ0C^{NrH
C+i C+) t+1 - '
CO CO
33
O
(A
•i
m
m
B
EH
«i
<
si
O
la
P
1-3
O
« o 3
SI S
c <=•
•3 en
o
c8 O
ca
fl
>. a
2 1^
•a c3
a .a
o fq
a
ft s
M a
II
W _
>i at
1 «
CO
1
1
£ C5
E Z
a) o
5 S
a
c4
a
3
O
ca
o
o
O
MAR.-APR. 1947 A Precbgnitive Dream
CASE : PRECOGNITIVE DREAM
The following case of an apparently precognitive dream has been contri-
buted by Mrs G. Bell, a mem.ber of the Society. The dreamer, Mrs Clark,
and her daughter, Mrs Brown, are near neighbours of Mrs Bell's, whom
she knows well and describes as reliable and accurate people. Mrs Brown
told Mrs Bell about the dream, which had occurred on the night of 23-24
December 1946, on 27 December, and at Mrs Bell's request she wrote the
following statement and had it confirmed by her mother the same day.
" On the morning of Christmas Eve, my mother told me of a strange
dream she had had the previous night. She found two German prisoners
in our hall, who said they had been invited out to tea at a certain house in
the village and when they arrived they were told the lady had gone away.
They were directed to another house but did not wish to go and wanted to
come to us. My mother said that one stooped and also spoke better
English.
" On Christmas Day, just before tea, I went out for a short walk and
noticed two German prisoners on the doorstep of a house and wondered if
they had been invited there. As I went on I argued with my conscience,
because I knew that if they were still there when I returned, I ought to ask
them to tea, because it was raining and miserable, and I did not want to.
To my relief they had gone when I came back, but glancing across the road
I saw them standing there. I immediately went over and invited them in.
" As they entered the hall I remembered the dream and after showing
them into the dining-room I fetched my mother and jokingly said, '
Your
Germans have arrived.' To my surprise, when she saw them she said,
'
They are the identical pair that I saw in my dream.
'
" signed M. Imrie Brown."
Mrs Clark added, " This account is absolutely correct, and several times
during tea I was quite aware what would happen next.
" signed L. Move Clark."
In answer to further enquiries Mrs Clark sent the following details of her
experiences during the visit of the Germans.
31;/- 47
"... One of the prisoners was taller and stooped a little just as I had
seen him in my dream. The other, short and dark, scarcely spoke
English at all, as his friend explained in my dream and also as soon as they
came into our house. Therefore conversation was difficult during tea.
As my son-in-law had been stationed in Germany during the war, I
suggested he should get some snaps he had taken when there and show the
boys. While he went to another room to get them something seemed to
say to me, '
One of these boys, the dark one, comes from there.' Such
proved to be the case. He got very excited when he saw the snaps, and his
friend interpreted what he was saying. '
It is his home.' Then again, I
knew that he would show us his family photos and immediately he drew a
small case from his pocket which I had seen before and showed me his wife
and daughter who looked quite familiar to me.
22 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1947
" The '
elated '
feeling certainly was mine though I called it
'
excite-
ment ', which lasted long into the night, keeping me from sleep, but
making me feel so happy that I found rAyself smiling."
A letter from Mrs Bell, enclosing the above account, states that these
details were exactly as told her verbally on 27 December. She adds that
Mrs Clark has had a number of other similar and more interesting dreams,
but that she sends this one as she heard it immediately after its occurrence.
It will be noticed that the dream is not an exact reproduction of what
occurred. This appears to be another case of the fact pointed out by
Professor H. H. Price in his recent broadcast that extra-sensory perceptions
are " representative " rather than photographic reproductions of what
actually occurs. He suggested the possibility that the information is
correctly received by the subconscious but gets distorted in the effort to
pass it through to consciousness. Success in doing this may cause the
" elation " mentioned by the percipient. It is of interest that other per-
cipients, particularly Miss Nancy Johnson, have reported similar feelings
of elation during moments of extra-sensory perception.
VERIDICAL INFORMATION GIVEN BY A MEDIUM OF
MATTERS OUTSIDE THE SITTER'S KNOWLEDGE
The following interesting incident from a sitting with a trance medium is
reported by the Hon. Mrs H. Gay, who writes as follows :
" I made an appointment in July 1946 with Mrs Bedford for September
1 8th with the purpose, if possible, of obtaining evidential messages from
a friend of mine who had been killed in a motor accident the previous May.
" Early in August I went to stay with Mr and Mrs B for a couple of
nights who had an old and intimate friend dying in their house. I saw him
for a few moments and he told me what a comfort it was to him to be there
with them, but he was too ill to talk much and a few days later he died.
" I was not there when he died and did not hear any details of his death
(beyond the fact that it had been peaceful), nor did I see the B 's until
after my sitting with Mrs Bedford on September i8th. At this sitting I
received no messages at all from the friend who had been killed in the motor
accident, but received the messages given in the enclosed notes, which I
took down verbatim in an abbreviated long-hand."
In the account which follows, the sentences printed in italics contain
information unknown to Mrs Gay which subsequently proved correct.
The comments in inverted commas are those of Mrs B., to whom the
record of the sitting was shown.
K. Gay. Sitting with Mrs Bedford
Sept. i8th, 1946 Commenis.
Your mother is here. Jack needs Applicable.—K. Gay.
help. Also your father. (Then
followed an account of my father's
last illness.)
MAR.-APR. 1947 Veridical Information 23
Sept. iSth, 1946 (contd.)
There is also another person
whom you saw before he died. An
oval face with eyes sunken in, high
forehead, you saw him in bed.
He passed on with a complication
in his mind about material possessions,
but he says " Thank God, I put
everything all right ".
Who is Harold? He is with
someone called Charles who passed
over recently.
(Then followed a number of
messages purporting to come from
my father.)
That person who was here
recently, liewas slim, he had another
disease as well as the one he died of.
You felt very sorry for him.
He speaks of a lady on this earth.
He is quite near her. Tell her he is
not dead. She had plans in her
mind about changes. She is not to
worry about these. He realizes
expenses are great, but she should
not look too far ahead in planning.
He speaks of her looking through
his papers.
He thanks her for what she put in
his coffin.
He knows she looks at his photo and
has talked to him.
She is to think more of herself and
to remember their conversation
about survival. There is a great
love round them. He realizes what
she feels.
He speaks of expecting a letter
before he passed over which did not
arrive.
Comments.
" A friend of mine—a man aged
69—died at the house on Aug. 9th,
1947. I had been nursing him."
Not placed.—K. Gay.
" He had been suffering from
heart disease."
Correct.—K. Gay.
All this would apply to Mrs B.
—K. Gay.
" I went through his papers and
destroyed some of his private
letters."
" I put some of his favourite
flowers into his coffin."
"I had looked at his photo and
spoken to him after his death."
"Before his death I had a con-
versation with him about survival
in which I expressed my firm belief
that after his death he would still be
able to be near me and see me."
"This is true, but Mrs Gay did
not know he was expecting a letter."
24 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1947
Sept. iSth, 1946 (contd.)
He knows she is worried about
finances. He has one or two valu-
able pieces which he gave her and
he says she is not to he sentimental but
to sell them if she wants to.
He is a man who had been
unfortunate for years before his
passing. He could have achieved
more. He was very sensitive. She
must not get rid of her house.
Good fortune will come to her there.
He will help her.
It gave him great comfort that she
was there at the end. He kneiv she
whispered to him that she loved him,
but he could not answer.
He was so afraid of her leaving
him. He went very peacefully.
Thank her for all the love and
comfort she gave him.
They had many years together.
I get the number 42. Does it
convey anything to you? (No.)
Find out about it. 4 and 2.
Jack, he is helping Jack in spirit.
He wishes he could have left more.
The house was very dear to him.
Tack missed him too.
He has met Arthur in spirit. The
initial B comes with someone.
Initials M and E in spirit.
He left some personal things to Jack.
(Then followed some references
to my father and some quite
unevidential stuff from other people.
—K. Gay.)
Comments.
"This remark about '
not to be
sentimental about his furniture
'
was very typical of him. He had no
sentiment over furniture, while I
always said I hated parting with
things associated with people I
loved."
" When he was dying I whispered a
message to him that I loved him, and
that he was not to worry as we should
meet again. He was apparently quite
unconscious when I said this to him.
The reason I whispered was because
I did not wish the nurse to hear as
she was a stranger who had recently
arrived."
" The number 24 would have a
great significance to me as it was the
number of a house he had lived in.
I feel sure if he had tried to send
me a number as a proof that he was
speaking, 24 is the number he could
have chosen."
Applicable.—K. Gay.
Not placed.
Not placed.
Correct.
MAR.-APR. 1947 Correspondence 25
It is interesting to note that the communications from Mrs Gay's father
were of much poorer quahty than those from the unexpected communi-
cator. The points mentioned were just those which would mean most to
Mrs B.
OBITUARY
We deeply regret to record the death, on 2 March 1947, of Mr Whately
Carington, whose work will be well known to all members of the Society.
A fuller Obituary will be published in Proceedings.
BLENNERHASSETT RESEARCH FUND
The Council wish to express their most grateful appreciation of the dona-
tion of ^(^500, given by Mrs Blennerhasset as an addition to the Trust Fund
in order to ensure that the income shall not be diminished by reduction of
the rate in interest. It seems clear that the income will, in fact, be
increased. Our readers will appreciate this generous gift to the Fund.
CORRESPONDENCE
Sir,—On January 7th I saw my son study a plan of London before going
out. On his return he remarked that it might interest me to know that he
had looked up West Eaton Place for he knew somebody was going to ask
him where it was while he was out, and he wanted to have the answer
ready. This happened as he had foreseen.
Professor Broad wrote in Philosophy for November, 1944, that the quan-
titative experiments performed by Dr Soal during the four previous years
provided " evidence which is statistically overwhelming for the occurrence,
not only of telepathy but of precognition ". Dr Soal's evidence does not
stand alone ; nor is Professor Broad the only eminent man to be over-
whelmed by it.
Professor Broad also said in his Presidential address to the S.P.R. in
1935 :
.
" The degree of belief which it is reasonable to attach to an alleged fact
or a proposed theory depends jointly on two factors, viz. : [a) its ante-
cedent probability or improbability, and {b) the trustworthiness of the
evidence and the extent to which it seems to exclude all alternatives except
the one suggested. On precisely similar evidence it would be reasonable to
believe much more strongly that an accused man had cheated at cards if
one knew him to be a bookmaker than it would be if one knew him to be an
Anglican bishop, because the antecedent probability of the alleged event is
much greater in the former case than in the latter. Now antecedent
probability depends very largely on analogy or coherence of the suggested
proposition with what is already known or reasonably believed about the
subject matter with which it is concerned. Antecedent improbability
depends very largely on lack of analogy or positive discordance with what
is already known or reasonably believed."
26 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1947
Before quantitative experiments proved the existence of E.S.P. to those
who are wilHng dispassionately to study the evidence, it needed a good
deal more evidence than would hang a man for the S.P.R. even to label
a case well-documented. This was essential when its aim was to prove
the existence of an antecedently improbable faculty. But the question
Does it exist.' " has been answered, except for those who for psycho-
logical reasons would not be convinced were the heavens themselves to
open. Are not the vital questions today: How, Why, and On what occasions,
does it emerge?
I have reason to believe that members are diffident about sending in
cases because they understand that the corroboration required must be
watertight in every case. Consequently a number of cases, which internal
evidence would show to be similar in nature to well-documented cases, are
not reported, and valuable cumulative hints as to the nature of E.S.P. may
thus be lost. For in future it is largely from the experiences of the per-
cipients themselves that we shall have to widen our knowledge. Further,
a wrong impression of the incidence of the faculty may thereby be created ;
private enquiry suggests that this is more widespread than the cases
received by the Society indicate.
In the changed circumstances, would not a statement of policy about
evidence, to include guidance on such points as the following, be of help
to members.?
1. Before the experimental confirmation of precognition, the case
quoted above would not have been considered evidential, because my son
did not tell me of his impression before it was confirmed. Even had he
done so it would probably still have been classed as a chance coincidence,
or we should have been suspected of delusions or collusion. Now that
precognition is no longer antecedently improbable, is such a case of greater
interest to the Society.?
2. During his childhood my son produced corroborated evidence of
E.S.P. Does this add to the value of the above case?
3. Before the experimental evidence, had the Archbishop of Canterbury
himself sent us an uncorroborated statement that he had seen the ghost of a
living friend, we should have been bound to believe any other explanation
of his statement rather than that he had seen what he thought he saw.
But now that such ghosts have become respectable " telepathic hallucina-
tions corresponding to the situation of some other person at the time",
may we legitin?ately take a serious interest in the unsupported word of
an Archbishop? Does the fact that my son is an accurately minded
mathematical scholar at Cambridge add to the probability that when he
said he had known that someone would ask him a certain question, he was
speaking the truth?
4. It is now widely accepted that telepathic impressions are representa-
tive, rather than photographic reproductions, and that they may be of any
degree of accuracy, or even symbolic. Does not this imply that cases of
apparent E.S.P. are of interest even if they do not exactly correspond to the
event portrayed? Distortions themselves, if studied in sufficient numbers,
should be instructive.
5. Could members be informed that a wider range of cases would now
be of interest, but that they would be classified in two categories :
MAR.-APR. 1947 . .
'
Review 27
A. With standards of evidence as heretofore.
B. First-hand reports of cases of apparent E.S.P. by percipients known
to members of the Society, which may be less well corroborated.
I am aware that this suggestion may bring down upon my head the
accusation of a wish to lower the standards of evidence of the Society. Far
from this being the case, I merely want to enquire whether, in view of the
confirmation of the existence of E.S.P., it may not be as unscientific to
ignore less well-documented cases as it would be to accept them uncritic-
ally. Also I feel that members need encouragement to send in cases and
guidance as to how to do so.
Yours, etc.,
Rosalind Heywood
Sir,—In the early numbers of our Proceedings numerous authenticated
accounts of Apparitions and Ghosts were published. At that time and ever
since, other accounts often equally well authenticated have appeared in the
Journal. To give two examples there is the case of Samuel Bull, sweep
(Oct. 1932) and that of the Misses Scott (Vol. VI, p. 146 and Vol. IX,
p. 298). The former is I think the most striking of all and was investigated
on the spot by Lord Balfour and others. The latter is a striking account of
an open air haunting. There are a number of others. Owing to their
publication in the Journal none of these are available to the general public.
I suggest that a selection of the best cases should be made and published in
a special volume of the Proceedings with any changes of name that may be
necessary to cover promises of anonymity. This would be of great assist-
ance to students of the subject.
Yours faithfully,
^ ^^^^^^^
We are grateful to Mr Abdy Collins for his suggestion. There are, as he
points out, many adequately authenticated cases in the Journal which
might well be published for the benefit of students of psychical research,
either in a special volume of Proceedings or, perhaps even more usefully, in
a separate publication.
—
Ed.
REVIEW
Some Human Oddities. By E. J. Dingwall. Pp. 198, 12 plates. London;
Home and Van Thai, 1947. 15s.
There is much more in Dr Dingwall's latest work than a lurid recital
of the doings of six queer people ; he has in fact given us a serious study
in the fantastic. Each chapter presents an unsolved problem. One chapter
is devoted to D. D. Home and another to the levitating saint, Joseph of
Copertino.
The D. D.. Home mystery is the one which most concerns psychical
researchers. Dr Dingwall's approach is unusual. He does not attempt the
customary detailed analysis and appraisal of seance reports. Instead, he
has made full use of his erudition in these matters to present the reader
with a choice and illuminating selection of contemporary observations. One
gets a clear picture of the attitudes of the people with whom Home came in
contact, and of the conditions in which his seances were conducted.
28 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1947
This chapter contains three fresh contributions to the accepted story of
D. D. Home. The author has unearthed a new report of the famous Ashley
Place levitation, when Home floated out of one window and in at the next.
The account is supposed to have been written by Lord Dunraven himself,
although it contradicts the classical version and does not fit in with the
actual configuration of the premises at Ashley Place. The theory is put for-
ward that Home had homosexual tendencies. This would explain the
scandalous rumours which dogged him through life, the mysterious expul-
sion from France after sittings at the Tuileries and the antipathy felt
towards him by Browning and others. The circumstances of the Lyon-
Home case are reviewed, and it is shown that Home was by no means as
guilty in that affair as is generally supposed. Mrs Lyon hoped to use the
famous medium to gain entry to spheres of society where previously she had
been snubbed. When she saw that her ambitions were not going to be
realised, she thought better of it and reclaimed the money she had settled
on Home.
Other sections of the book deserve more than the brief reference which
is all that can be given here. As far as witnesses and signed depositions are
concerned, the levitations of St Joseph appear to be the best attested ever,
not excluding those of D. D. Home. They occurred often, both in build-
ings and outside, and in the presence of all sorts of bystanders. The levita-
tions took place in broad daylight and were closely observed and commented
upon in great detail. We can only lament with the author that nowadays,
when we have the camera to record their feats, " saints do not seem to fly
as they used to do."
The chapter on Deacon Paris is mainly of medico-psychological interest.
It describes some extraordinary instances of submission to torture by
women under the influence of religious fanaticism. On reading the chap-
ter on Angel Anna—a disgusting wonder-worker who seems to have stepped
out of the pages of the Neivs of the World—one senses the writer's own
brutal experience of the seamy side of psychic phenomena. The odious
trade of the psychic charlatan, its revolting associations, the infamy of its
accomplices, and the degrading credulity of its supporters, are all brought
out in this unpleasant story.
Altogether, Dr Dingwall is. to be congratulated on producing a book
which is as fascinating as its contents are fantastic. D. J. West
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOE PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only ". The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
May, 1947 Vol. XXXIV—No. 635
CONTENTS
PAGE
Notice of Meeting --------29
New Members - -30
Meetings of the Council - - - - - - - 31
Private Meeting - - - - - - - - 31
Some Recent Communications received through Miss Cummins 32
Mass Experiments in the Psi Cognition of Drawings -
43
Correspondence - - - - - - - - 55
NOTICE OF MEETING
A PRIVATE MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
will be held in
The Society's Library,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i
ON
Thursday, 2 J^^b' ^947' (> p.?n.
WHEN A PAPER ON
EXPERIMENTAL EXTRA-SENSORY PERCEPTION
will be read by
- Mr D. a. H. parsons, M.Sc.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members and
Associates zvill be admitted on signing their names at the door.
30 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may 1947
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 31 March 1947)
Barnard, G. C, M.Sc, Southland School, Broadstone, Dorset.
Chalmers, J. S., 56 Ardmay Crescent, Glasgow, S. 4.
Dalton, G. F., i Seaview Terrace, Ailesbury Road, DubHn.
David, W. A. L., Ph.D., 36 Huntingdon Road, Cambridge.
Dewick, Mrs E. J., Curry Farm, Bradwell-on-Sea, Southminster,
Essex.
Dick, Mrs D. A., Street Ashton Lodge, Stretton-under-Fosse, nr
Rugby.
Due-Petersen, J., Aabyhoj, Denmark.
Marrian, L. H., i Blenheim Gardens, Wallington, Surrey.
Moore, Mrs W. A., Hill Farm House, Seend, Wiltshire.
Osborn, E. C, 18 Kensington Church Street, London, W. 8.
Peachey, Eleanor M., Ph.D., 83 Greenhill, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
Philbin, Miss M. M., Wilton, Chelmsford Road, Shenfield, Essex.
Woodley, F. J., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Cranleigh, 5 Jubilee Road, Dursley,
Glos.
Young, Lieut.-Col. T. C. McCombie, M.D., 68 Belsize Park, London,
N.W. 3.
Student-Associate
Young, Miss R. A., Stonegate Vicarage, nr Tunbridge.
{Elected 29 April 1947)
Austen, A. W., 144 High Holborn, London, W.C. i.
Chew, Miss D. N., 55 Ormerod Road, Burnley, Lanes.
Cox; G. W., c/o Barclay's Bank, Adderley Street, Cape Town, S. Africa.
De L'Isle & Dudley, Dowager Lady, Basil Street Hotel, Knights-
bridge, London, S.W. 3.
Jefferson, Mrs G., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., D.P.M., High Bank, Didsbury,
Manchester 20.
Lawford, Mrs I. A., 28 Aldwick Road, Bognor Regis, Sussex.
Roscoe, G. T., M.A., State High School, Charters Towers, Queensland,
Australia.
Ross, R. C, 149 Uxbridge Road, Hanworth, Middx.
MAY 1947 Meetings of the Council 31
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 424th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Monday, 31 March 1947, at 3 p.m., The President
in the Chair. There were also present : Miss T. Bosanquet, Professor
C. D. Broad, Professor E. R. Dodds, Brigadier R. C. Firebrace, Mrs
Goldney, Mrs Heywood, Lord Charles Hope, Dr A. J. B. Robertson
Mrs W. H. Salter, Dr S. G. Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, the
Rev. C. D. Thomas and Dr R. H. Thouless ; also Dr D. J. West,' Re-
search Officer, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct. Fourteen new Members and one Student-Associate were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
Mr D. A. H. Parsons was appointed an elected member of Council
to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Mr Whately Carington.
The following co-optations were renewed for the year 1947-48 : Brig-
adier R. C. Firebrace, Mrs Oliver Gatty, Mrs Frank Heywood, Dr A. J. B.
Robertson and Mr Richard Wilson.
The 425th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Tuesday, 29 April 1947, at 3 p.m.. The President
in the Chair. There were also present : Miss T. Bosanquet, Brigadier
R. C. Firebrace, Mrs Goldney, Mrs Heywood, Lord Charles Hope'^Miss
Jephson, Dr A. J. B. Robertson, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, the Rev.
C. D. Thomas and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also Dr D. J. West, Research
Officer, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant- Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed as
correct. Eight new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
Lord Charles Hope was appointed a member of the Finance Committee.
PRIVATE MEETINGS
The 194th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on
Thursday, 10 April 1947, at 6.45 p.m., when Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell read
a paper on " The Spontaneous Phenomena of Psychical Research ".
On Thursday, i May 1947, at 6.45 p.m., the Research Officer, Dr D J
West, opened a discussion on " The Work of the Society's Research
Department ".
32 Journal of Society for Psychical Researcli may 1947
SOME RECENT COMMUNICATIONS
RECEIVED THROUGH MISS CUMMINS
[Miss Gibbcs (E.B.G.) has sent us the following account of veridical com-
munications received during 1945 through Miss Geraldine Cummins, whose
mediumship is well known to our members.]
Fictitious names of persons and places are used throughout, but the real
names have been disclosed to the Hon. Editor.
Miss Cummins spent the greater part of the war years from 1939-1944
in Ireland looking after an invalid mother and doing other rather nerve-
wracking work. After the death of her mother in October 1944 she returned
to London in February 1945. She did not seem very well but we had a few
personal sittings for automatic writing before she returned to Ireland for
the summer in June of that year.
During one of these sittings (March 19th, 1945) the following announce-
ment was made by her control, Astor :
" I must tell you there is a stranger here, a quiet grey-haired woman
with a curious force. So I have been compelled to pass on what is her
message. She says she died in Kensington. She shows me a foot, that is
her surname, I gather. Then a daisy, Yes, Marguerite Foote. She says
she worked for a long time with an important public man—knew him well.
She gives the name James. She says she wants to talk to Donald about
James and that Donald hopes to come to this town in April. If so, she begs
that you see him for the writing, not to let anything interfere as she has
something important to say about James."
E.B.G. " I don't quite follow all this, Astor."
" You may know in April, as Donald is likely to want to see you if he has
time."
E.B.G. " I grasp whom you mean now."
" That is all about her now. She doesn't seem able to give surnames.
She seems to have been over here about three years. She says her message
is important in regard to future events."
E.B.G. " Tell her I will remember and arrange."
The above came as a surprise. I soon realised however to whom tl 3
reference was meant. Later I looked up the name Foote in the telephone
directory but could find no one in Kensington likely to fit the name given
in the script.
After the sitting Miss Cummins said she recollected something about
Donald X but couldn't remember what, and asked if any allusion had been
made to him. I answered in the affirmative and enquired if he might be
coming to London. She replied that she thought it extremely unlikely. I
made no reference to the stranger.
During Miss Cummins's absence in Ireland, she had given an occasional
sitting to a friend, Donald X. He had been much impressed by, and was
very interested in, her psychic abilities. Through her he had received
communications purporting to come from the mother of a well-known
business man. Thinking there might be some interesting developments, I
followed up this trail at the next sitting.
MAY 1947 Communications received through Miss Cummins 33
March 25TH 1945, at 25 Jubilee Place, S.W. 3
" Astor is here ;
Am I to call Hilda [my sister-in-law]? She and her
family have been together to-day."
E.B.G. " Yes, but I should first like to ask you a few questions."
" I shall try to reply to them."
E.B.G. " You remember the quiet, grey-haired woman stranger, you
described the other day.?
"
" Yes, she was an interesting woman with a keen brain, extremely quick
but quiet, like one w^ho had very great self-control and grip of herself."
E.B.G. " Had she spoken before?
"
" No, she never communicated through my child [i.e. the medium]. In
fact, it was her first visit. She knows Donald X. At least, she had seen
him when she was staying with her employer whom she called James.
When I asked her who James was, she replied that he was a man of affairs
and did not seem to wish to give more information. I said was he in busi-
ness and she replied that '
he was a very important business man '
and
smiled."
" I said what kind of goods did he deal in? " She said, " Every kind."
E.B.G. " I wanted to trace her."
" She seems to have had a confidential post with James."
E.B.G. " She said she died in Kensington. Is there nothing more you
can tell me in this respect?
"
" She said she died in Kensington and that Donald would know her
and that she did not particularly wish that you should find out who
she was."
E.B.G. " Well, we will leave it at that."
" That was her habit in life—to keep secrets, and so she was always
reserved with strangers."
E.B.G. " I tried to trace her name in a book here, but of course could
not do so, It was too vague, as she might have died in any house in Kensing-
ton." ^
" She did not say she died here. I asked her. She said, ' There is more
than one Kensington in the world '
and smiled."
At a subsequent sitting the following spontaneous reference to Marguerite
Foote was made.
25, Jubilee Place, Chelsea, S.W. 3
Saturday Afternoon, April 14TH, 1945
_
" Astor is here. There is near to you the quiet grey-haired lady, but if she
is quiet she is persistent. She has for over a week been pressing me to
speak to you about her first message. Her name is Marguerite Foote At
last I have that clearly from her. She says I gave her message wrongly to
you. She had said James is coming over here in April and that she wanted
to speak about James to Donald. She wanted to warn him that James was
coming over. I see now that this lady does not belong to this country but
she is not French. She died in Kensington, New Zealand. She says she
had retired there because she could not carry on her work any longer
34 Journal of Society for Psychical Research MAY 1947
She says she knows Sheila took her place lately with James ; but it wasn't
the same thing. Sheila is very clever but hasn't the experience of course.
Do you want me to send this lady away?
"
EBG. " I remembered, and would have asked Mr X to come here in
April if he had visited this country. But now, as you say the message has
been misinterpreted, we can convey it to him. We have not heard that he
is coming here."
" She says she was working for a long time in a confidential position
for James and that it has given her the greatest joy to see him resting
after the passage of death. He is with his mother, or rather, she came
to him."
EBG. " Tell her that I will send the message as she wishes."
" Yes, I have told her. She is satisfied."
After the death of James, Miss Cummins wrote a letter of sympathy to .
Mr X. She added something to the effect that, " A Miss Marguerite Foote
had called here in March and that she was worried about something
happening to a friend of his in April. She said she was from Kensington,
N.Z." Miss Cummins added that she hesitated to write to Mr X as she
knew nothing whatever about this lady. But she was a nice grey-haired
woman. Also that she had called again yesterday.
A letter from Mr X was received by Miss Cummins on May ist, 1945. -
It runs as follows :
(Extract) April 24, 1945.
Dublin.
" Dear Miss Cummins,
Thank you so much for your kind letter of sympathy. Millie and I
are both grateful for it. What you wrote about Marguerite Foote is most
interesting and evidential. You may have since learned that she was
James's confidential secretary for many years and died about two years ago.
What is most evidential is that she told you she lived in 'Kensington, N.Z.',
which is not generally known ; also the fact that she had white hair, though
relatively a young woman. How did that come through.? If I could have
excerpts from the script covering these two episodes, I should be most
grateful. Obviously, Miss Foote was hoping to get word to James through
you and me to take care of his health. ... If you come over let us know.
We not only want to see you but feel that some interesting things might
come through. Please remember me to Miss Gibbes.
Yours faithfully,
Donald X."
Copy of letter sent by Miss Gibbes to Mr X :
May 1st, 1945.
" Dear Mr X,
Miss Cummins has read me extracts from your letter to her concerning
Marguerite Foote. As I am anxious to collect any evidence of survival,
would you be so good as to let me know a few more details concerning her.?
I take a few questions from the three scripts copies of which I enclose.
Your answers would of course be regarded by us as confidential.
MAY 1947 Communications received through Miss Cummins 35
Was Marguerite " quiet, grey-haired and with a curious force "?
Did she " work for a long time with James and know him well "?
In your letter you say she died about two years ago. Astor says about
three years. But time is often a stumbling block in communications as you
probably know, so this is near enough.
Would you describe M. Foote as " an interesting woman with a keen
bram, extremely quick, quiet and self-controlled " etc. as described.?
She claims she knows you, or at least had seen you when she was staying
with her employer. Is this a fact.?
" A confidential post " with James. Your letter confirms this.
Was she " reserved with strangers " and " persistent
You affirm that she died in Kensington, N.Z. (A place, the existence of
which was utterly unknown to Miss Cummins and myself).
Was she " unable to carry on her work any longer and so retired ".?
Is it a fact that a woman named Sheila took her place with James and
was It just lately? Is Sheila not quite so efficient as M. F. as indicated?
Is Sheila " clever but not so experienced ".?
The script indicates that she was working for a long time as Secretary.
I note your letter states she was confidential secretary for many years.
In view of the fact that it v/as after the announcement of "
James's
"
death that Astor wrote he had misinterpreted the original message concern-
ing him, It is interesting to note a few points which would seem to indicate
that this statement is correct.
1. " She wants to talk to Donald about James. ... In April."
(Communication of March 19)
2. " not to let anything interfere as she had something important to say
about James ... you may know in April."
(March 19)
3. Her message " important in regard to future events ".
(March 19)
With reference to the suggestion in your letter that Miss Cummins may
have learnt that M. F. was his confidential secretary and died two years ago
1 can assure you that neither Miss Cummins nor I have seen anything of
the kind. Had we done so, we should have thought immediately of this
communicator. In any case it is indicated in script of March 25th that
M. b .
held '
A confidential post " with James. Also in script of March 19
that she worked for a long time with an important public man ".
Yours sincerely,
E. B. GiBBES."
Copy of letter received from Mr X :
(Personally typed)
"Dear Miss Gibbes :
^ 1
As I have written to Miss Cummins I shall be very happy to work
with you on this matter and give such assistance as I can for I think you
May loth, 1945.
36 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may 1947
have an evidential case of the first order. Answering your questions in the
order in which you ask them I should say that :
1. Marguerite Foote could be described quite accurately as a woman
with a " curious force ". She was gray haired even while a young woman
and white haired toward the end.
2. She did work for a long time with " James " and knew him extremely
well.
3. I will verify the time of her death. It may have been more than two
years.
4. She was the kind of woman that could make herself interesting to
anyone who interested her and whom she considered worth while. She
never could have attained the position she held without exceptional
qualities.
5. She knows me well. She was in my friend's household from, I think
it was 1922.
6. Yes, most confidential. I doubt if anything went over his desk that
she did not know about.
7. She never talked about my friend's aifairs or discussed any public
business to my knowledge.
8. She died in a Wellington suburb. I believe it was Kensington. I
will verify this as it is important.
9. Yes, she was unable to carry on for several years before she died.
ID. Yes, it is a fact that a woman named Sheila took over and she was
not so experienced but is clever.
I suggest that you try to obtain from Astor answers to the following
questions which I shall be able to verify :
What illness overtook M. F. ?
What was the name that she was known by in her employer's family?
This would be very evidential.
What other nam.e has Sheila? Describe colour of hair, married or single
(I can verify such answers out of my own knowledge). Does Astor know
of any kinsfolk of Sheila who have sent messages through him and Geral-
dine C. to me for others.
If M. F. comes again tell her I am very anxious to receive any message
from " James " who believes in communication.
The dates and the misinterpretation of Astor's messages are most
significant. . . .
I shall be glad to show you the scripts that G. C. obtained with me.
They contain some extraordinary things.
Yours sincerely,
Donald X."
Notes of sitting held on the morning of Mav i6th, 1945 at 25 Jubilee
Place, S.W. 3.
" Astor comes."
'
EBG. " The last time we wrote you said that the lady with grey hair, the
stranger, was around but we had no time then to talk with her. Would she
like to come now?
"
MAY 1947 Communications received through Miss Cummins 37
" Yes. I can call her Here she is. She is very interested in you and it
is because she knows Donald X. She says that James is with his own people
and that he was delighted too, to catch up on Walter R. whom, he said, had
beaten him on the post in the journey to this world."
EBG. " Who is Walter R. ? the rest of his name.?
"
" He said Walter and he were two sick men together and they had a private
bet as to which of them would live the longest. James lost the bet. James
thought he would go first. That is what this lady tells me. Walter R.,
that was the name."
EBG. " Has she any message she would like to send to Mr X? "
" She is delighted to hear you will give a message to Donald. Tell him
she says, that James is not only happy but so darned glad to be able to
think about himself. For the first time for many years he has been able to
have a good think about himself."
EBG. " Does she remember if she was called by any special name in
James's family.?
"
" She says she was known by more than one name."
(Here followed an attempt to write what looks like O or Q and Chap or
Cheep.)
" I am trying to get her to write it." (Another attempt.)
EBG. " When she first came you gave her name correctly."
" She showed me a large daisy and a foot, that's how I got it originally.
She may give it to Donald later."
EBG. " But he knows the nickname so it wouldn't be the same."
" She does not say anything more about that."
EBG. "I wonder if she can remember what other name Sheila had?
and the colour of her hair and if married or single.?
"
" Wait. I will ask her. She says Sheila's name is Ship—no, it begins like
Ship but it isn't a ship.
Shipton. That is the name she makes in signs to me.
Shipton. It may not be quite correct because the signs are difficult. But
the special name they called her seemed to begin with the sign C."
EBG. " And was Sheila married.?"
" She says Sheila was married, that she is a live wire and has a quick brain
and is very attractive. Her husband, I think, is in the Army. Marguerite
points to a uniform when she speaks of the husband who has some appoint-
ment."
EBG. " Astor, do you know any kinsfolk of Sheila's who have sent
messages through you and the medium here, to Donald X..?
"
(Some names were here given which were later verified by Mr Donald X
as relevant.)
(EBG. " I wonder if she recollects what illness overtook her?"
" She does not know to which illness vou refer. She was very ill at one
time from anaemia, debility, but I can't hold her longer. ..."
EBG. " Tell her I will ask for her again some time Astor. Your child is
tired. . . . Goodbye."
{Note made after the sitting.)
Miss Cummins is not as strong as she used to be before the war and so
the power does not, at present, last so long as formerly.
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may 1947
After the sitting I asked Miss Cummins if she knew who had been
writing? She rephed, giving the name of my relative, and then said she
" saw a woman with grey, silvery hair—pale, at least her face seemed pale
—
and she looked puzzled or rather, she got the impression that she was
puzzled, as though she didn't quite know what to make of me,"
—" a Httle
suspicious, that's all I got." Later she added " Didn't we have Mar-
guerite back? (yes) that must have been she then."
Copy of Letter from Donald X, dated May 25 and received by Miss Gibbes
June ist 1945 :
"Dear Miss Gibbes,
I was very much interested in your letter dated May i6th with
enclosures. It only arrived two days ago. The last script is most extra-
ordinary and convincing. I can tell you now that everything about Sheila
is correct. (Mr X then verified the names above mentioned.) The success
in getting the name Shipton through makes me suspect the possibility that
M. F. didn't want to have her " pet name " come out. Possibly she tried
to write " cheap " in protest though I see no reason for it. Perhaps later
she will give it so that I won't tell you now.
The bit about Walter R. staggered me. See if you can get the nick name
by v/hich he was generally known to his intimates. The reference is most
evidential. I won't give you the details yet but this was significant.
Give our best to G. [Miss Cummins]. I can quite understand that she
is worn out. Her devotion to her mother during her long and trying illness
was extraordinary and the shock of the ending.
If you get Marguerite again thank her for me and tell her I appreciate
very much her news of James and that when there is a favourable oppor-
tunity I shall pass it on to those to whom it means a great deal.
This has developed into a most interesting and evidential research.
Please keep me in touch with it and I will pass on any useful suggestions
that occur to me.
Yours sincerely,
Donald X."
Copy of letter sent to Mr X by E. B. G. :
"
25, Jubilee Place,
Chelsea, S.W. 3.
May 215/, 1945.
Dear Mr X,
We had a short sitting today for a relative. Astor at once wrote as
follows :
Astor is here. I have a word to say about a previous writing. There was
little power near the end of it so I was not able to obtain all the answers
clearly. You asked me to find out the Christian name the family knew and
used for Miss Foote. I think that was the request. I got the name Alice
from her in signs. So I presume that was the name required, Alice Foote.
She made the signs that shaped this name I have written.
MAY 1947 Communications received through Miss Cummins 39
(EBG. Thank you. I think the request was for the name by which she
was known in James's family).
The name of my relative was then announced. And the writing pro-
ceeded on other lines.
I hope the above has some meaning to you. Recently we had another
communication of a very evidential nature concerning a woman of the
name, Alice. ^ I hope there is no confusion.
As it happens, I have not shown G. the last script. I told her bits of it
but I carefully concealed the fact that there was any suggestion of a request
for a name. Nor did I tell her that I had sent you the page on which the
names were written. She is quite unaware that she had written any.
With kind regards.
Yours sincerely,
E.B.G."
Copy of letter from Mr X received by EBG. Dated May 30th 1945 :
" Dear Miss Gibbes,
Thanks for your letter of May 21st. I do not know whether " Alice
"
was one of the names of Marguerite Foote or not. Probably it-was not but
I will enquire. Alice is not the name I was hoping to get. How would it
be, when opportunity presents itself, to ask whether Marguerite Foote
wished not to tell the name James called her by and which James's family
used in speaking to and of her.
G.C. and Astor are so marvellous in giving names that I suspect that
there is a holding back on M.F.'s part. . . .
I am waiting with interest to see what you get on the subject of Walter R.
This is one of the most extraordinary bits of evidence that I have ever
come across.
With all best wishes.
Yours sincerely,
Donald X."
Notes of Sitting, Wed. eve : June 6th 1945, at 25 Jubilee Place, S.W. 3.
6. ij p.m.
(GC and EBG)
Having received Mr X's letter in which he said the name Alice was in-
correct so far as he knew, anyhow it was not what he wanted, and as G. is
returning to Ireland soon, I thought it advisable to endeavour to get replies
to his letters as soon as possible.
" Astor is here. You wish to talk to Hilda or to others."
E.B.G. " Who is there besides Hilda?
"
" There is your brother Frank and I think there is a woman in a mist
and also I see two others not quite clear to me yet."
E.B.G. " Will you ask the woman in the mist to come and talk to me
first?
"
'This case was printed \n Journal May 1945
40 journal of Society for Psychical Research MAY 1947
" The woman is the one who was here previously. She won't write
herself but I can report what she says. She is still a little distrustful of you
and afraid to give away any really personal information. She says that, in
connection with James, they always had to be very careful in their state-
ments, as there was the danger of the Press getting hold of it."
E.B.G. " Tell her she need not fear us in that respect."
" She says you can't trust anyone when it comes to careless talk."
E.B.G. " There I agree. Will you say that Mr X thanks Miss Foote
for the message re James and when the opportunity occurs will pass it on
to those to whom it means a great deal."
" She is very pleased indeed. ..."
E.B.G. " Can Marguerite say anything more about Walter R. ? He has
a nick-name by which he was known to his intimates."
" Wait. . . . She only calls him Wat. I don't know if she means that
as a nick-name. She says, " Wat is right here and darned glad we are all
together—the old trio." I don't know what she means by the trio."
E.B.G. " Can she explain the trio?
"
" '
We are going to get together '
she says, '
and start working after
James has had his rest in the holiday camp.'
"
E.B.G. " I conclude that Walter R. was associated with James in his
job."
" '
My dear Robson ', James used to say." That is M.F.'s answer.
E.B.G. " Astor, you gave the name Alice as connected with M.F.
could she explain why she gave this name.?
"
" She seems to think she told you that it was a name associated with
herself."
E.B.G. " It was not what Mr X expected to be given."
" She says, '
The name is my property—at least—it was my first name
so why should you object to my using it? '
"
E.B.G. " Well, she is cautious and we are also. Mr X wants to be sure
of her, so we are all cautious!
"
" She says she may have given away too much to you two. She is a
little upset now because I have told you what she said about ..."
E.B.G. " Please tell her we won't give anything away. She hasn't
given, I think, the name which James's family used when speaking of
her."
" I have said that to her but she won't give it, in fact, she won't tell
me anything more now."
E.B.G. " Well, tell her that I only asked her because Mr X wanted to
know and your child here is going over to Ireland very soon."
" She won't, I think, trust you with any further information. I led
her on to talk and now she is distressed at realising some of her remarks are
written down and are in the hands of two strangers."
E.B.G. " Tell her it is all right. We often have confidential things
- written down and she need not be upset."
" Yes, I shall tell her, it is only a passing mood with her. I think the
man who was with her told her that she was indiscreet in communicating
with strangers on earth through an interpreter. It is the fault of this man.
She was quite ready to talk until he spoke to her about you. He was also
connected with James—worked for him in a confidential capacity."
MAY 1947 Communications received through Miss Cummins 41
E.B.G. " Tell her to trust us, and now what about the other two you
said were near?
"
" Yes, this person has given her name as Pussy. She has a connection
with M.F. They spoke to each other. Pussy has the symbol of fire near
her now I see. I think she died through a fire. Wait I will ask her more.
She would like Millie to know that she is more alive than she ever was on
earth. Pussy has been over here a number of years it seems. She has gone
now. She talked so quickly I don't know if I gave her message correctly.
I think I picked it up, at any rate, something she wanted to be sent. . .
."
Copy of letter sent by E.B.G. to Mr X. :
"
25, Jubilee Place, S.W. 3.
June 6ih 1945
Dear Mr X,
Many thanks for yours of May 25th and 30th returning page of
names belonging to the script. You say the name Shipton is correct.
But to whom does it belong.'
I am very interested in what you say about Walter R. In view of the
fact that G. returns to Ireland in a few days, I decided that I would try to
get in touch with M. Foote again so as to obtain if possible answers to your
questions and thus eliminate the influence of the sitter's mind. For you
will be seeing G. in Dublin shortly. Herewith is the result. From it, do I
gather that Walter R.'s name is Robson or is that the nick-name? And
that he was also at one time a secretary or confidential friend ? You will see
that M. Foote says Alice was her first name. Can you verify this—Also if
she died in Kensington, N.Z.,—if there is such a place?
I shall be glad to hear if the name Pussy conveys anything to your wife?
Geraldine told me her name was Millie in course of conversation a short
time ago. Would you also let me know if the reference to fire is correct?
Also, if she has been over a number of years? And also if she talked very
quickly when on earth? This is a small point but may have been a
characteristic of the alleged communicator.
In yours of May 25th you say " Everything about Sheila is correct."
Am I to take it she is a " live wire " and has a quick brain and that her
husband is in the Army and has some appointment?
I asked G. later on, as she said she thought M. F. had been speaking, if
she had ever had a Walter R. writing through her to you? She replied in
the negative so far as she could recollect. She was very anxious to hear if
anything of interest had been communicated at enclosed sitting. But
beyond saying that it was very interesting I thought, I told her nothing as
I didn't want to spoil anything else that might come through her to you by
her previous knowledge of what had been said, etc.
I shall be very intrigued to hear what you think of the enclosed. But it
is unlikely that we have any more sittings before she goes, as she seems
very tired and her " power " does not, alas, last as long as it used. I have
assured her that you are delighted with the results of this experiment and
that encouraged her. Please forgive typing errors, etc.
With kind regards.
Yours sincerely,
E.B.G."
42 Joimial of Society for Psychical Research MAY 1947
Copy of letter from Mr X dated Sunday, June 17th 1945 :
" Dear Miss Gibbes,
I have been long delayed in answering your last very interesting letter
with script enclosed. This is, your letter of June 6th.
Shipton is Sheila's married name. She is James's daughter.
Waker R. is Walter Robson. For many years he was James's close
friend. He died on board ship when on a voyage with James. James
always called him by a nickname as did all his circle. This I will not tell
you yet. The trio might well mean Robson, James and Miss Foote.
They worked very closely for years. To me this is very evidential. I shall
find out whether Marguerite Foote 's first name was Ahce. I did not know
it.
" Pussy " is my wife's sister, that is correct. My wife is Millie. She,
Pussy, was burned to death in her house. There are some details that
might come through which would be evidential so I shall not say more at
present except that she was a very vivacious personality. . . . We expect to
see G.C. on the 20th and if she is up to it, I would like to have a short
sitting, not over 15 minutes, as she should not get tired. But if this comes
off, it might be well not to ask any questions regarding the things that have
been coming to you. If anything comes, well and good. But since I know
the answers to several questions, I think it is best to wait until you might
take it up again. We have got hold of something very good and should be
patient. Don't you think so.''
Yours sincerely,
Donald X."
From enquiries made by Mr X it was ascertained (i) that Marguerite
Foote 's middle name began with A, but it was not ascertained that it was
Alice ; (2) that she was treated at a hospital known as Kensington Hospital,
but died not at Kensington, N.Z., but in a neighbouring district ; (3) that
James and Robson both knew they were ill when on the voyage mentioned,
but that nothing could be ascertained about any bet between them.
Further investigations in this case were ended after June 20th, 1945,
owing to the severe operation and subsequent long convalescence of Miss
Cummins.
Several points of interest would seem to emerge from a study of this case.
One of the most important is that facts have been given in the automatic
script which were not only unknown to Miss Cummins and myself, but
also unknown to Mr X. The latter is the only individual who could
reasonably be regarded as being in possible telepathic communication
with the automatist while writing these facts. But this hypothesis does not
cover the statement apparently indicating James's death, over three weeks
before it occurred.
So far as we know, we had never heard of Walter Robson. It is of
interest to note that the characters of both Marguerite Foote and Sheila
Shipton are accurately described. As these two women were entire
strangers to us, it appears that these descriptions could only have been
given by someone who knew them both.
—" Astor "describing Marguerite
and the latter describing Sheila.
MAY 1947 Mass Experiments in tlie Psi Cognition of Drazvings 43
It is of interest to note that Astor appears to have acted as reporter of
Marguerite's remarks at these sittings. If this is accepted as the manner
in which the communication was conducted, it may explain the discrepancy
between fact and statement when Marguerite is alleged to have said she
died at Kensington, whereas she was in hospital in Kensington and died at
another place not far olf.
Perhaps readers will agree that this case is the more interesting because
of the illustration in this case, of a very human failing—inaccurate report-
ing.
When analysing evidence one should always compare it with the
behaviour of human beings. So often the sceptical investigator appears to
assume that the hypothetical communicator must be infallible. If he is
fallible, that is to say, makes inaccurate statements, then the communicator
is considered by sceptics to be an invention of the medium's subconscious
mind. If he is infallible and makes accurate statements, it is often assumed
that the subconscious mind of the medium is wholly responsible for the
alleged communication. Cryptacsthesia or invention accounts for all the
phenomena, the communicator is never there!
E. B. GiBBES.
MASS EXPERIMENTS IN THE PSI COGNITION OF
DRAWINGS
By D. J. West
Acknowledgment
The experimenter wishes to place on record his great indebtedness to
Mr M. T. Hindson, who willingly undertook the laborious task of scoring
all the drawings, and gave unstinted practical help throughout the experi-
ments. Mr Hindson is already known to members of the Society for his
work in judging drawings in Mr Carington's experiments.
Introduction
Those who have followed or been engaged upon experiments in psi
cognition are more or less generally agreed (at least on this side of the
Atlantic) that the ability to divine by telepathy or clairvoyance the order of
a randomly arranged pack of cards is a rare one. It seemed, when the
card-guessing campaign was first launched by Ina Jephson, that statistics
might reveal a latent faculty in most people. Later work in conjunction
with Besterman and Soal showed that when adequate precautions were
taken no results were obtained in tests on groups of unselected per-
cipients. Dr Soal's Herculean labours over many years, as well as many
sporadic unpublished trials, confirm the impression that good card-
guessers are a rarity. In earlier days the Americans made the claim that
about one person in five was a successful card-guesser ;
but, judging by
recent comments in the Editorials of the Journal of Parapsychology, their
present view is much more conservative.
44 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may 1947
Table
No. TARGET CONTROL PERCIPIENTS
of
trial
Subject Subject Manning Fletcher Wretich
I Million I Church 2 Cat (2) Bell (2)* -(2)
bell
2 1 umbler 3 World 4 Pear (4) Key (3)* Shape (4)
3 Piano 5 Crown 6 Cube (—
)
Lamp- Hat (6)
shade (6)
4 Spectacles 7 Basket 8 Candle (8) Swan (7) Bottle (8)
5 Bath 10 Teapot 9 Book (10) Pillarbox Lamp (9)
(9)
A
D Penny 12 Envelope 1
1
Flower (12) Ship (11) Plate (12)
7 Snake 13 Horse- 14 Teaspoon Bow (13) Book (13)
shoe (13)
0 Electric 15 Weighing 16 Clock (15) Bridge (16) Spoon
light bulb scales (15)
9 Broom 18 Switch- 17 Caterpillar Shovel (18) Spoon
back (18) (18)
10 Key 20 Hook 19 Bullrushes Window Plate (ig)
(19) (20)
SCORE 5/9 5/10 4/10
TOTAL SCORE : 50 EXPECTATION : 48.5
In striking contrast to the needs of card-guessing, choice of percipients
seems not to matter when drawings are used. Carington concluded from
his great work in the paranormal cognition of drawings that a degree of
psi capacity existed in the population at large which could be detected by
any conscientious experimenter. The present experiments are an attempt
to demonstrate this generalised psi faculty.
It was decided not to use Carington's catalogue method of allotting
scores based on empirical probabilities. It does not seem beyond dispute
that Carington's catalogue would be valid for a dilTerent group of per-
cipients working some years later. The passage of time, particularly such
an eventful time as the war years and their aftermath, will inevitably
make some items more popular and others less so. A simpler method of
assessment, one that took into account general resemblances as well as
palpable hits, seemed more appropriate for the proposed demonstration.
The method used was a variation of the time-honoured " matching-
technique ", which has the advantages of essential simplicity and self-
evident reliability.
The First Experiment
A small-scale preliminary test
Some weeks previous to the experimental session, twenty objects
capable of being illustrated were chosen randomly from a dictionary and
MAY 1947 Mass Experiments in the Psi Cognition of Drawings 45
I
PERCIPIENTS {continued)
1
Uiiddingtoii dentlClLi levvy EOVgitlCDl i\eisey
Dustbin (2) Pitcher (2) Garden Crown *
Tree (i) Tumbler * — (—
)
seat (2) (2) (2)
Trowel (3) Wineglass Teapot Hand- Book (3) Chair (3) Dome
(3) *(4) rail (4) (—
)
Fence (5) Candle (6) Ship Pail (5) Cistern (5) Head (5) Cross
(5) (6)
Bicycle (7) Cucumber Cherry Parasol Whip (7) Flask (8) Candle
(7) (7) (7) (7)
Pencil (9) Glass (9) Cart Book Boxing- Scissors Flower
(10) (10) glove (9) (9) (9)
Clothes- Telegraph Table Knife Hammock Pail (12) Shovel
hanger (12) pole (11) (n) .(12) (II) (12)
Loaf (14) Pliers (14) Ring Picture Feather Boat (13) Book
\ ^4/
Cake (16) Top-hat Shapes Cutlass Sickle (15) Book (16) Fork
(15) (16') \^ J/
Saw (18) Plume (18) Boat Flag Gibbet (18) Knife (18) Tele-
(17) (17) phone
(17)
Chest of Spoon (19) Shoe Barrel Wheel (20) Wringer Books
Drawers (20) (19) (19) (20) (19)
6/10 4/10 4/10 5/10 8/10 6/10 3/8
equals palpable hits on one or other of the controls or targets.
drawn by the experimenter. They were placed in envelopes numbered
I to 20. On 12 July, ten of these envelopes were selected at random (by
tossing a coin) for use as target drawings. The other ten drawings were
used as controls. The target cards v/ere removed from their envelopes,
scrutinised by the experimenter, and then replaced. This was to ensure
that the subjects of the target drawings would be more firmly implanted
in his mind than the controls.
The experiment took place at the Society's rooms on 18 July, 1946.
Ten percipients took part and Mr. Denys Parsons acted as invigilator.
D. J. W. acted as agent. He sat in a separate room and concentrated on
the target drawings one by one. After the attempted transmission of each
drawing, when all the percipients had recorded their guesses, Mr Parsons
summoned the agent. D. J. W. then opened one of the controls, and
brought it and the target drawing into the room, and showed them both
to the percipients. Each percipient was required to try to say which was
control and which was target. The following table shows the subjects of
the target, control and guess drawings for each of the ten trials performed.
The numbers represent the choice of the percipients when asked to dis-
tinguish between target and control. The scores represent the numbers
of correct choices (p equals h). They are close to chance expectation.
All the drawings were then given to an independent judge, Mr M. T.
Hindson. He was not told which member of each pair of originals was
46 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may 1947
the control, or which was the target. He scored all the percipients'
attempts against all the originals, both targets and controls, giving three
marks for a " palpable hit ", two marks for a " plausible hit ", and one for
a " resemblance ". The results were as follows :
Score on targets ----- 7
Score on corresponding controls - - 11
Total Score over the other nine controls 54
>) )) )> )i )> 1) targets -
45
There is no excess score on the targets as opposed to the controls. The
fact that the average score is smaller on the targets and controls not
immediately in use is no evidence of psi ; it is probably accounted for by
the fact that in scoring the judge paid rather more attention to the immedi-
ate target, and its corresponding control, than to the rest of the drawings.
We must conclude that in the small number of trials concerned the
percipients showed no appreciable ability to distinguish between target
and control.
The Second Experiment
That the First Experiment yielded no detectable psi effect was of no
great significance, because it was such a small-scale trial. In the Second
Experiment a much larger number of percipients took part, the target
drawings were widely spaced in time of exposure, and the scoring system
did not make use of ambiguous controls.
About 200 notices were circulated among S.P.R. members and their
friends asking for co-operation in an experiment in telepathy. Two draw-
ings were to be exposed in the Society's library, one at 7.30 p.m. and the
other at 8.00 p.m. on Sunday, i December, 1946. No information was
given about the nature of the drawings except that they would represent
" common objects ". Participants in the experiment were requested to
send in their impressions on two separate pieces of paper labelled respec-
tively No. I and No. 2.
The drawings were chosen by D. J. W. about a week beforehand. He
opened a dictionary and selected at random the first drawable word,
repeating the process for a second word. Each was illustrated with a
rough sketch in ink. The first word chosen was " Trough ", the second
" Foot ", and these were written in large capitals on their respective
illustrations. The first drawing showed a gutter-shaped receptacle sup-
ported on straight trestle legs, the sort of thing used by animals for drink-
ing purposes. The second drawing depicted an unclad human right
foot, viewed from the inner side. The two drawings were put away in a
private place. No-one was told where they were, or even that they
existed.
At 7.30 p.m. on I December, the drawings were taken out and D. J. W.
placed the first one, the Trough, on the desk in the Society's library. He
sat staring at it leisurely, keeping his mind as blank and restful as possible.
So as not to allow his attention to wander, he very slowly prepared a
tracing of the drawing. At 8.0 p.m. the second drawing wass ubstituted
for the first and the process repeated. At 8.30 p.m. the drawings were put
MAY 1947 Mass Experiments in the Psi Cognition of Drazvings 47
away again. D. J. W. was alone the whole time, and nobody else saw the
drawings.
It was hoped that displacement effects would not be so marked as to
prevent percipients distinguishing between two drawings spaced at half-
hour intervals.
On 2 December, the tracings of the two originals were posted to Mr
M. T. Hindson, who once more kindly consented to act as judge in mark-
ing the drawings. Mr Hindson was requested to keep the tracings private,
and in fact no-one else was told what the originals were until all the guesses
had been received. Mr Hindson himself was not informed of the order
of the originals, that is he did not know while he was marking the drawings
whether foot or trough was the first original.
Some percipients recorded impressions of more than one object for each
original. Where possible these were split and counted as separate guesses
as if they had been received from different percipients. Some percipients
failed to record any impression for one or other of the originals. For these
reasons the guesses were not quite evenly distributed between the two
originals.
Mr Hindson was asked to compare every drawing with both originals,
and to record any resemblance he observed as follows :
Palpable Hits—when the percipient's drawing plainly represented the
subject of the original.
Fair Resemblances—when the drawing is closely connected with the
subject of the original, e.g. shoe and foot.
Faint Resemblances—when there is some detectable association be-
tween drawing and original.
Mr Hindson's scores are shown in the following table :
Table H
Number Hits on Target Hits on Target
of Guesses Trough Foot
When Target Palpable Hits I 0
Fair Resemblances 5 I
Aim Was 192 Faint Resemblances 24 0
Total 30 I
Trough Expectation 24.8 1.6
When Target" Palpable Hits 0 0
Fair Resemblances 0 2
Aim Was >
171 < Faint Resemblances 17 0
Total 17 2
Foot Expectation 22.2 1.4
This table shows no significant deviation from chance expectation, but
such as it is the deviation is in the right direction.
48 Journal of Society for Psycliical Research may 1947
When Mr Hindson had finished scoring tlie drawings, he numbered
them I to 363, and all markings which indicated the target aim (i.e. first or
second guess) were cut away. A record was kept of which was which, but
when the second scorer Mr F. W. Masham saw the drawings he was not
told the target aims. He was shown the originals, but like Mr Hindson he
was not informed which was which.
Mr Masham was asked to run through all the guesses marking them T
or F according to whether he thought they were more like " Trough " or
like " Foot ". If he showed a tendency to match the drawings against the
original at which they were aimed, that would be evidence of telepathy.
The actual result was as follows :
Table HI
Target Aim
T
Target Aim
F Total
Scorer Matched 122 92
T (Expt'n 1 13.2) (Expt'n 100.8) 214
Scorer Matched 70 79
F (Expt'n 78.8) (Expt'n 70.2) 149
Total 192 171 363
X2 eq. 3.54 with one degree of freedom.
With Yates' correction p is approx. 0.075, which is approaching the
borderline of significance. The result is promising and suggests that a
repetition would be useful.
In putting forward an experiment of this type as a demonstration of psi
we are making one assumption. We have shown that there was a slight
excess of associations with " trough " appearing as first guess, an excess
of associations with foot in the second guesses. We are assuming that
there is no reason for this sequence to be observed in the absence of a
telepathic factor. It does not seem a very big assumption ; for sequence
preferences, while understandable with numbers and cards, are not ex-
pected to the same extent in qualitative material. However, it would be
possible to argue somewhat as follows :
Most people when asked to make a guess will think of something
commonplace. Asked for a second guess they will think of something
more abstruse. One might expect an excess of common objects among the
first guesses, and a comparative excess of uncommon things in the second
guess. As the figures of the experiment show, the associations of trough
were commoner than those of foot. One would therefore expect the
trough associations to predominate in the first guesses even in the absence
of telepathy.
In order to answer this objection, we must demonstrate by a control
experiment that in the absence of trough and foot as originals there is no
MAY 1947 Mass Experiments hi the Psi Cognition of Drawings 49
tendency to draw trough first and foot second. This has in fact been done,
using as controls the drawings of the Third Experiment (see below) with
the following result :
Table IV
Scoring by M. T. Hindson
Number of J-Jif^ on Hits on
Guesses Trough Foot
Attempts at 'Palpable Hits - 0 0
First Original
I,.,'
Fair Resemblances I 2
in the Third Faint Resemblances -
30 0
Experiment ^Total 31 2
Attempts at Palpable Hits - 0 0
Second 147 « Fair Resemblances ->
0
Original Faint Resemblances -
34 0
^Total 37 0
Table V
Forced Matchings by R. A. Caldzvell
Matched Against
Trough
Matched Against
Foot
Total
Guesses
Aimed at the 77 74 151
First Target (Expt. 85.6) (Expt. 65.4)
Aimed at the 92 55 147
Second Target (Expt. 83.4) (Expt. 63.6)
169 129 298
There is certainly no tendency in these control scorings for resemblances
to trough to precede resemblances to foot.
An experiment of this kind is useful for picking out promising per-
cipients. Some 200 percipients had taken part in the experiment, but only
one scored a direct hit. She was Miss P. M. Clark, an Oxford under-
graduate, who w'as known to D. J. W. through her success in informal
drawing experiments with members of the Oxford S.P.R. Miss Clark did
not actually describe her drawing as a trough. It was in fact a stool with
trestle legs, but it so closely resembled D. J. W.'s drawing that Mr Hindson
felt he must regard it as a palpable hit.
The Third Experiment
The Second Experiment having yielded a statistically inconclusive
result, it seemed logical to try a repeat experiment on a larger scale. For
this purpose, D. J. W. wrote to Mr Rex North of the Sunday Pictorial,
5° Journal of Society for Psychical Research may i
947
who was at the time conducting a series called, " We Investigate the Un-
known ". A description of the Second Experiment was enclosed, and it
was suggested to Mr North that he might care to attempt a similar experi-
ment using the readers of his paper as subjects.
On Sunday, 22 December, 1946, an announcement appeared in the
Sunday Pictorial that on Christmas Day, Wednesday, 25 December, 1946,
an experiment in thought transmission would be carried out. Two draw-
ings of simple objects would be used. Mr North would concentrate on
the first drawing from 4.0 to 4.30 p.m., and on the second drawing from
4.45 to 5.15 p.m. Readers were asked to post their guesses to Rex North.
On Thursday, 2 January, 1947, the drawings were sent to D. J. W. for
statistical analysis. There were only 298 attempts, a somewhat disappoint-
ing response from a paper with so wide a circulation. It is possible that
some of the drawings were lost. In a description of the experiment which
appeared in the columns of the Pictorial on Sunday, 5 January, 1947, it
was stated that twenty people had chosen " cat " for the second drawing.
D. J. W. was able to find only four cats, counting both first and second
drawings. Moreover, the two guesses which D. J. W. had himself sent in
were not returned for scoring.
The 298 drawings were scored by the same method as was used in the
Second Experiment, with the following slight modifications :
(1) Composite drawings were not split, but were counted as single
guesses.
(2) The drawings were shuffled so as to separate the two attempts sent
in by each percipient.
(3) The numbers showing target aims were removed from the drawings
before being given to the judge, Mr M. T. Hindson.
(4) Mr Masham having left London, the forced matching scoring was
performed by Mr R. A. Caldwell, another member of the Society.
Table VI
Hindson Scores
Hits on second
Hits on first original original
{Cross within a circle) {Circle on
straight line)
Drawings aimed Palpable Hits 3 2
at first Fair Resemblances 4 6
original Faint Resemblances 4 35
(151 attempts) Total - 1
1
43
Expectation - II. 15 46.11
Drawings aimed Palpable Hits 3 6
at second Fair Resemblances 4 8
original Faint Resemblances 4 34
(147 attempts) Total - 1
1
48
Expectation - 10.85 44.89
MAY 1947 Mass Experiments in the Psi Cognition of Drawings 51
Table VII
R. A. Caldwell, Forced Matchings
Matched against
cross
Matched against
circle
Aimed at cross 65
Ex. 66.9
86
Ex. 84.1
151
Aimed at circle 67
Ex. 65.1
80
Ex. 81.9
147
132 166 298
Neither method of scoring reveals any suggestion that the percipients
were able to distinguish between the two originals. In these circum-
stances, it is hardly worth while to perform a cross check control to
demonstrate that there is no special sequence preference for cross before
circle.
The Fourth Experiment
It was considered that the completely negative result of the Sunday
Pictorial experiment might have been due to the close resemblance
between the two originals—both of which contained a circle—which
mitigated against the percipients' chances of distinguishing between
them.
In order to test this matter experimentally, the drawings obtained in the
Second and Third Experiments were shuffled together and renumbered
(i to 661). They were given to a fresh judge (Miss Mountford, a member
of the Society) who was asked to force-match them against either trough
and foot, or circle on a straight line. Miss Mountford was not asked to
match any of the drawings against the original cross. This original had
been one of those used in the Third Experiment which took place on
Christmas Day, and it was considered that to demonstrate an excess of
crosses at that time would contribute nothing to the evidence for psi
cognition.
The great objection to all cross-matchings between separate experi-
ments is the question of topicality. It might be that for some subtle
reason circle was more topical on Christmas Day, 1946, than it was on
I December and if this were so it would give rise to a spurious positive
eiTect.
The result of Miss Mountford's matchings is set out in the table
below :
5a Journal of Society for Psychical Research may 1947
Table VIII
Target
Trough and Foot
Target
Circle
Matched against
Trough & Foot
163 (Expt. 146.6) 104 (Expt. 120.4) 267
Matched against
Circle
200 (Expt. 216.4) 194 (Expt. 177.6) 394
363 298 661
eq. 6.97 with i degree of freedom. p<.oi
It must be noted that this inter-experiment matching is statistically
independent of the previous matchings.
The Fifth Experiment
It was considered that the results of the Second and Fourth Experiments
were sufficiently promising to warrant a repetition on a larger scale.
Accordingly, all members of the S.P.R. were circularised, and notices
were printed in Light, Prediction, The Two Worlds, and Psychic News, to
the effect that at 9.0 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. on 7 February, 1947, an experi-
menter at the S.P.R. rooms would concentrate his thoughts upon the
drawing of some simple object. The American S.P.R. was also notified,
and altogether a gratifyingly large response was obtained.
The originals were : No. i at 9.0 p.m. " Statue "
—portrayed by a Greek
figure of a naked man ; No. 2 at 9.30 p.m. " Maze "
—portrayed by a
straight-line maze of the picture-puzzle variety.
The scoring procedure was the same as for the Third Experiment,
except that Mr Hindson did the forced matchings as well as the scoring by
resemblances. The results are shown in the following table :
Table IX
Resemblances to
Target Statue
Resemblances to
Target Maze
Aimed Palpable hits
at Fair Resemblances
Statue. Faint Resemblances -
Forced matchings
:^
8}
248
= 10
(Ex. 12)
(Ex. 239)
4j
43 J
258
^
59
(Ex. 57)
(Ex. 267)
Aimed Palpable hits
at Fair Resemblances
Maze. Faint Resemblances -
Forced matchings
.^1
9 J
207
' 15
(Ex. 13)
(Ex. 216)
.sj
39J
249
'
59
(Ex. 61)
(Ex. 240)
MAY 1947 Mass Experiments in the Psi Cognition of Drawings 53
It will be seen that there is complete agreement with chance expectation
in every respect.
So far all had gone well. The result of the Second Experiment had
seemed promising, and its statistical significance was apparently con-
firmed by the Mountford cross-matchings. It was confidently expected
that the Fifth Experiment, w-hich was on a much larger scale, would pro-
duce highly significant deviations. Instead, it yielded a result in close
agreement with chance expectation.
The hope that at last a simple repeatable method of demonstrating psi
had been discovered was quickly dashed. The fact that the most recent
and carefully conducted large-scale experiment failed to confirm previous
results suggested a possible fallacy in those results.
The figures which had seemed so promising were the forced matchings
of Masham and IMountford. In the latter case, it was realised that there
was a flaw. When the drawings of the Second and Third Experiments
had been shuffled together and renumbered it was not possible to eradicate
the numbers w^hich they had previously received for the purpose of Mr
Hindson's scoring. Moreover, the numbers put on for the Second and
Third Experiments were in different colours. Here, then, was a clue
which would have enabled Miss Mountford to divide the drawings into
two target categories without any reference to supernormal resemblances.
If she had remembered a statement made to her over the telephone, she
would have known that the trough and foot experiment had produced
some 360 responses. Observing that the red numbers ran from
I to 363, she could have deduced that these drawings were aimed at
trough and foot, and consequently the rest were presumably to do with
the circle.
When this possibility w-as put to her. Miss Mountford asserted that any
such train of reasoning in her mind must have been unconscious, and she
did not believe it could have occurred. There is, however, a piece of
evidence to suggest that something of the sort did in fact occur. Besides
force-matching all the drawings Miss Mountford was asked to note any
positive resemblances to either target. Her scoring of resemblances was
as follows :
Table X
When drawing Appreciable Resemblances to :
was aimed at : Trough and Foot Circle
Trough & Foot 55 (E-^pt- 57-3) 84 (Expt. 81.7) 139
Circle 65 (Expt. 62.7) 87 (Expt. 89.3) 152
If a genuine effect in the drawings was the basis of Miss Mountford's
scores it is extraordinary that her markings of appreciable resemblances
should be in complete agreement wdth chance, and her only significant
matchings should be on those drawings which bore little or no resemblance
to either target. The most likely explanation is that in the latter case.
54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research MAY 1947
when the matchings were only a matter of guesswork, her choice became
influenced unconsciously by normal clues in a way that was impossible
when she was preoccupied with actual resemblances.
In the case of the Masham forced matchings, retrospective investiga-
tion showed that here, too, normal clues were available. In the Third and
Fifth Experiments the cutting of the drawings to conceal the target aim was
done effectively, either by D. J. W. himself or under his supervision at the
S.P.R. rooms. In the Second Experiment, although the actual numbers
were cut oft, certain clues still remained. For instance, in many cases,
where percipients had put both attempts on the same sheet of paper, it
was still possible to distinguish which was the top half of the sheet ; and
this presumably contained the lirst attempt. D. J. W. picked out seventy
drawings in which he thought he could tell what the target aim had been.
In fifty-seven of them he was correct.
Mr Masham would have had to guess which target came first, but having
done so correctly (p eq. -J ) there was then every likelihood of unconscious
bias leading to a spurious result. It is, however, only fair to state that
Mr Masham did not appear to have used some of the most obvious clues.
The Sixth Experiment
It remains only to recount briefly one final experiment, equally negative
in result, in which Miss P. M. Clark (the percipient who scored the only
hit in the Second Experiment) was tested individually. During a visit to
the S.P.R. rooms Miss Clark tried to reproduce ten target drawings which
a friend of hers looked at one by one in an adjacent room. Later, Miss
Clark tried to reproduce (from a distance of some 100 miles) ten drawings
concentrated upon by D. J. W. at set times during January and February,
1947.
No appreciable resemblances were obtained. Pairs of attempts, coupled
with corresponding pairs of targets, were posted to Mr Masham to see if
he could match them correctly. Of ten such pairs he got only six correctly
orientated. A similar type of matching score by R. A. Caldwell was also
negative.
The final conclusion must therefore be completely negative. In all
experiments the results were in agreement with chance expectation, with
the two comparatively minor exceptions of the Masham and Mountford
matchings ; and in both these cases there was strong presumptive evi-
dence that unconscious bias was the explanation of the deviations.
It is important to notice that cross scoring by resemblances between the
Second and Third Experiments yielded a null result. This shows that
displacement effects, causing confusion between drawings used on the
same evening, is not the explanation of the failure.
Another explanation of the failure is that D. J. W. may be a bad agent.
However, it must be taken into consideration that Mr Rex North of the
Sunday Pictorial was no more successful, and that in the last mass experi-
ment at the Society a subsidiary agent was used in addition to D. J. W.
MAY 1947 Correspondence 55
CORRESPONDENCE
Sir,—Discussions of experiments on psycho-kinesis seem sometimes to
assume that psj'cho-kinesis can only be demonstrated if the dice used are
unbiassed. This is not the case. If each face is taken as target an equal
number of times it can easily be shown by simple algebra that the deviation
from mean chance expectation of the total number of hits is independent
of the bias of the dice.
Let a, b, c, d, e, /, be the probabilities of the faces i, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6
respectively turning up in any one throw. Then a + b + c + d + e +f= i.
Suppose that in 6A' throws, during which each face has been aimed at as
target N times, one obtains A' hits. If the dice were assumed to be un-
biassed the mean chance expectation would be and the deviation from
expectation would be A' - A'. These values will be exactly the same if the
dice are biassed, for the mean chance expectation of hits on i will be Na,
on 2 will be A^^ and so on. The total number of hits expected will be,
therefore, N x {a + b + c + d + e +f) which equals Nx i. The expected num-
ber of hits and, therefore, the deviation of any given score from expectation
will thus be independent of the bias of the dice if each face is taken as
target an equal number of times.
The variance will not, however, be independent of the bias of the dice.
If the dice were unbiassed this would be taken to be 6A^ x 1/6 x 5/6 = 5A^/6
(if 6A' is the number of throws). But if the dice are biassed the variance
will be different for different target faces, e.g. with i as target it will be
Nxax{i -a) = N{a-d^). The variance of the total will be the sum of
the variances on different target faces, that is, it will be I!N'{a - a^) =
N{Za-Zar). iTa = i, so the total variance is A^ - ATa^. If the dice are
unbiassed, this quantity Zd^ becomes 1/6 and the variance will be 5AV6 as
above.
This correction for bias in the variance is not generally made. This is
unimportant for two reasons. The effect of bias is to reduce the variance, so
ignoring the correction means that the variance tends to be overestimated
and therefore the significance of any deviation is underestimated which
is an error on the right side. Also the correction required is very small.
For example, the relative probabilities of falls of the difTerent faces in the
results shown in Table 2 of " A large series of PK tests " by Gibson,
Gibson and Rhine in x\i& Journal of Parapsychology, December 1943, are :
160, -163, -165, -166, -171, and -175. The sum of the squares of these is
•1668 which makes the true variance -83 3 2 A^ instead of -8333 A' as calculated
by the ordinary formula. The error of rather more than -01% is, of
course, altogether negligible.
That results obtained when each face is target an equal number of times
are independent of the bias of the dice is perhaps sufficiently obvious.
Some of the North Carolina results have, however, been obtained under
conditions in which this equality was not secured. These are commonly
treated as if this inequality rendered the results necessarily dubious. It
is, however, possible to treat them also by a similar method which renders
the deviation independent of bias, although the method I suggest has not
been used by those who have published such results.
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research MAY 1947
Let A, B, C, D, E, F be the number of times that the targets i, 2, etc.
have been thrown for. If A, B, etc. are unequal and the dice are biassed
it is obvious that the probable total score (Aa + Bb + ttc.) will not be
independent of a, b, c, etc. But if the scores for each target face are
weighted by factors inversely proportional to the number of times that
target face has been aimed at, one obtains a new total which will be inde-
pendent of bias. The weights, for example, could be MlA, MjB, MIC,
etc. The chance expected score for face i will then be MIA x Aa = Ma,
and the chance expected total score will be M{a + b + c + etc.) = M. That
is, it will be wholly independent of the bias of the dice.
But by thus weighting the scores we have also weighted their variances
and the change of variance must be taken into account in estimating
significance. By weighting the score on target i by multiplying by the factor
MIA we have weighted its variance by the factor (MIA)". Since the original
variance of throws on target i was A{a - a^), the contribution of its variance
to that of the weighted total score is {MIAYxA{a-a^) = M\a-a'^)IA.
The variance of the weighted total will, therefore, be M'^S[{a - a^)IA\.
To illustrate this method I will take the data given in table 2 of the
article by Gibson, Gibson and Rhine referred to above. This was a series
of witnessed experiments by three subjects with a total of 24,132 throws
of 6 dice each showing when worked out in the ordinary way (ignoring
bias) a total deviation of + 1,057, with a critical ratio of 7*46. Examination
of the table shows that subjects most commonly chose to throw for high
faces and that these were the ones that fell uppermost most often. The
question to be decided is whether, on the hypothesis that the high faces
fell uppermost most often as a result of bias, the observed deviation was
due to the subjects choosing as targets those faces which were favoured by
bias. The exact numbers for scores on each target face are not given in
the article which gives only average scores, but Professor Rhine has very
kindly sent me the details of exact scores.
The results are as follows :
Target faces 12345 ^ Total
No. of single
dice throws 24,804 12,816 15,444 9>684 39,168 42,876 144,792
Hits 4,098 2,150 2,630 1,656 6,923 7,732 25,189
One would have preferred to estimate the bias of the dice from all the
falls (whether hits or not) but since these were not recorded we must
estimate it from the relative values of the percentage of hits on each target
face. It is no objection to this procedure that the relative frequency of hits
might be determined by preferential action of PK on some target faces.
We are testing the null hypothesis that there is no PK and on this null
hypothesis relative frequencies of fall will be entirely determined by bias.
The question at issue is whether these results can be explained on this null
hypothesis, so for testing significance the null hypothesis is assumed.
The percentages of hits on each target face are : ; ,
16-54 1678 17-04 17-10 17-67 18-04
MAY 1947 Correspondence 57
Dividing the values by their total (103-17) gives us the following esti-
mates of bias :
These are the estimated probabilities of each face on a single throw. It
will be seen that (as is usually the case) the general direction of the bias
is in favour of the higher numbers.
In order to weight the score to reduce it to the value it would have had
if each target face has been thrown for an equal number of times we must
multiply the observed deviations by a weighting factor inversely pro-
portional to the number of throws on that target. The denominator chosen
for the weighting factors makes no difference to the final result but it will
be convenient to make it the average number of single throws per target,
i.e. 24,132. The weighting factors will, therefore, be 24,132/24,804,
24,132/12,816, etc.
To three decimal places, these weighting factors are :
•973 1-884 1-562 2-495 -616 -563
Multiplying the observed number of hits on each target face by these
factors we get :
Target faces i 2345 6 Total
Weighted hits 3,987 4,048 4,109-5 4,127 4,265-5 4,352 24,889
This weighted total of 24,889 is smaller than the observed total of hits
25,189 since the preponderant influence of the favourite throws of 5 and 6
on which scoring was heaviest has been eliminated. This may be regarded
as the score that would have been obtained if all targets had been aimed at
the same number of times and the total number of throws was still 144,792.
It may be directly compared with the mean chance expectation of one-
sixth of 144,792 (24,132). The deviation from expectation is +757 (in-
stead of 10,578 as calculated from the unweighted total).
An exact estimate of significance can be made as suggested earlier by
allowing for the elTects on the variance of the bias and of the different
weighting of the hits on difl^erent faces.
For this we need to calculate the quantities {x - x") where x is the bias
for each face. We have :
x (bias) -1604 -1627 "1650 "1657 "1714 -1748
x^ -0257 -0265 -0272 -0275 -0294 -0306
{x-x'^) "1347 -1362 -1378 "1382 -1420 "1442
This must be multiplied by the weighting factor for each target face, i.e.
by MlA, MjB, etc. where M is the mean frequency of target faces. This
gives :
(jv - X-) X weighting factor -1311 -2566 -2152 -3448 "0875 -0812
Total = 1-1 164
Target face
Estd. bias
123456
•1604 -1627 -1650 -1657 -1714 '1748
Total
I -0000
58 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may i
947
This total is the quantity MZ[{a - a")IA] which muhiplied by M gives the
variance :
I -1 164 X 24,132 = 26,941.
The standard deviation will be the square root of this, which is 164. This
gives a critical ratio of 757/164 = 4-62. This corresponds to a chance
probability of less than -00001 which, though less impressive than that
calculated when bias is ignored, is still more than adequately significant.
The object of this letter is to point out that PK results are not necessarily
vitiated by inequality of target faces and to show how they can then be
treated in a way that makes the results independent of bias in the dice.
It remains true, of course, that if the subjects are given free choice of
target face, such results might be explained by precognition. F"or this
reason and also because statistical treatment is much simpler, it is to be
hoped that future investigators will adopt the method of equalising target
faces.
Yours faithfully,
R. H. Thouless
Madam,—In my paper " Attempts to detect clairvoyance and telepathy
with a mechanical device " {Proc, XLVIII, 1946, pp. 28-31), I concluded
that no evidence of Psi faculty was found in 24,000 trials with 44 subjects.
There was, however, a single isolated significant score. Because of its
isolation I did not attach any importance to it, and did not mention it,
but on further consideration it seemed worthy of publication.
The percipient was Basil Shackleton (Soal's " Mr B.S."). Six sessions
under conditions of pure clairvoyance were conducted, with 175 successes
(p=i/5, expected 176) in the 882 trials. Attention was then turned to
conditions which allowed telepathy, i.e. the spy-hole was opened and an
agent was stationed at it. Two hundred trials were made at each session,
and at the fourth session a postcognitive (—i) score of 58 was obtained.
(Postcognitive hits are possible on 199 of the trials). A score as high as
this would be expected only once in about 757 similar sessions of 200 trials.
A correction must be made for the fact that the results were scored in
three different ways (i.e. on the target, precognitive, and postcognitive).
This gives 252 to i. Now the equivalent of 120 sessions were in fact
performed so it was almost an even chance that a deviation of this magni-
tude would be obtained in the course of the experiment.
There are just two facts in favour of a Psi interpretation, (i) The
high score was obtained with a proved sensitive, known to give frequent
displacement scores usually precognitive but sometimes postcognitive,
(see Soal and Goldney's report, Proc. ,
XLVII, 1943, pp. 21-150). Shackle-
ton only contributed 10% of the total trials. (2) I was accustomed to note
down any remarks made by the percipient during the session. On this
occasion at about guess no. 25, Shackleton said :
" I feel I am getting one
behind all the time." Previous scores had not shown a tendency in this
direction, and the percipient had not made any other remarks about
deviating from the target.
I
r
MAY 1947 Correspondence 59
Four further sessions under telepathic conditions gave resuks close to
chance expectation. The percipient was only told about success or
failure at the end of each 200, or occasionally 100 guesses.
Yours sincerely,
Denys Parsons
Madam,—Mrs Heywood's interesting and persuasive letter in the March-
April number raises a crucial question. Now that many members of the
Society are convinced that ESP is proved, Mrs Heywood seems to con-
sider exclusion on grounds of evidence no longer necessary. We incline
to the opposite view especially if it is intended that such cases should be
printed in the Journal.
The respect which the Society's publications have won in the past has
been due largely to the policy of printing only the best attested cases. It
would be a great pity if acceptance by the Society's Editor could no
longer be any guarantee of quality. There are as it is plenty of spiritualist
journals ready to supply the demand for less well authenticated cases. We
feel that the standard of corroboration in material published by the
Society is already low enough. However convinced one may be that
genuine cases exist, it can hardly be denied that cases of unconscious
exaggeration, pathological hallucination, faulty memory and hoaxing also
exist. Only by maintaining a consistently high standard of evidence can
one hope to eliminate these side effects and avoid mistaking the phsyco-
logical for the psychic.
Those contributing cases should make sure they are confirmed in every
way possible. The aid of the Research Officer can now be enlisted in
seeking new cases and following up any sources of independent corro-
boration. We would, however, wish every success to those who think
it useful to study uncorroborated cases, and we hope they will report any
discoveries of value to psychical research.
{Research Officer's Note. Uncorroborated cases are not discarded, but
are indexed and put away in the Society's files, where they may be con-
sulted by members on application.)
E. J. Dingwall
K. M. GOLDNEY
W. D. Jones G. K. Spinney
A. M. Western
I. P. Williams
R. Wilson
C. S. O'D. Scott
S. G. SOAL
J. Eraser Nicol
D. A. H. Parsons
A. J. B. Robertson
6o Journal of Society for Psychical Research MAY 1947
"HINTS ON SITTING WITH MEDIUMS" ,
The Council wish to call the attention of members to the following
passage in their last Annual P.eport
:
The replies to the Questionnaire showed that there were many members
of the Society who would be glad of advice as to the conduct of sittings
with different types of mediums, and as to the appreciation and assessment
of the results obtained. To meet the wishes of such members the Council
appointed a Committee of persons with considerable experience of sittings,
who have drawn up some " Hints " as to the conduct and evaluation of
sittings, of which copies can be obtained on request.
There is still a stock of the " Hints " available to applicants. ;
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private nature
of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made without the
previous consent of the Cotmcil. Ever since the first issue of the Journal in
1884, much of the material appearing in it has been contributed on the
definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated on the cover, issued " For
private circulation among Members and Associates only ". The Council
hope that all Members and Associates will continue to co-operate with
them in maintaining this privacy.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
June-July, 1947 Vol. XXXIV, No. 636-637
CONTENTS
PAGE
Notice of Meetings - - - - - - - 61
New Members - 53
Meeting of the Council ------- (,2
Private Meetings - .52
Cases : Forecasts of Horse Races - - - . .
63
A Case of Premonition - - . . _ 5q
Veridical Information obtained through a Ouija
Board ------- yo
Poltergeist at Netherfield - - - - -
71
A Case of apparent Retrocognition - - -
74
Psychic Phenomena in Indonesia - - - _ . go
Research Officer's Notes
Broadcast Talks on Implications of Psychical Research -
87
Book Notice - .-«q
NOTICE OF MEETINGS
PUBLIC LECTURES ON PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
A series of Lectures by well-known members of the Society will be
given at Caxton Hall, Westminster, London, S.W. i, at 8 p.m. on the
following dates :
' Friday, 19 September 1947
Friday, 17 October 1947
Friday, 21 November 1947
Friday, 12 December 1947
The first of the series will be an Address by Mr W. H. Salter, M.A.,
the President of the Society. The other Lectures will be given by
Professor C. D. Broad, Professor H. H. Price and Dr S. G. Soal.
Further particulars of these meetings will be announced later.
In view of the general interest of the contents of this Special
Number of the Journal, the restriction of circulation to Members
and Associates only is remitted.
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research june-july 1947
NEW MEMBERS
Andrews, W. A., 41 Pimlico Road, London, S.W. i.
Coutts, C, 40 Garden Place Aberdeen.
Cowie, W. B., 127 Mayfield Road, Edinburgh, 9.
Gardiner, S. M., 2 Munro Road, Glasgow, W. 3.
Jenkins, Rev. H. O., St Martin's Vicarage, Bradley, Bilston, Staffs.
Maxwell, M. W., 2 Dr Johnson's Buildings, Temple, London, E.G. 4.
Orford, E. J., 47 Lowther Hill, London, S.E. 23.
Ridgway, J. D., i; Gecil Court, Hollywood Road, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 10.
Saraiva, Miss G., 34 Rua Miguel Pereira, Botafogo, Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil.
Stott, Rev. H. B., The Rectory, Bolton-by-Bowland, Clitheroe, Lanes.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 426th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Thursday, 22 May 1947, at 3 p.m.. The President,
Mr W. H. Salter in the Chair. There were also present : Miss Bosan-
quet, Mrs Goldney, Mrs Heywood, Lord Charles Hope, Mr Parsons,
Dr Robertson, Dr Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, Mr Tyrrell and
Mr R. Wilson ; also Dr West, Research Officer, and Miss Horsell,
Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct. Ten new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
PRIVATE MEETINGS
A Discussion Meeting was held in the Library on Wednesday, 14 May
1947, at 6.30 p.m., when Mr J. H. Bekker spoke on " Psychic Phenomena
in Indonesia ".
On Thursday, 5 June 1947, at 6 p.m., Mrs K. M. Goldney opened a
discussion on " D.D. Home as a Study in testimony in relation to Physical
Phenomena ".
!
JUNE-JULY 1947 Forecasts of Horse Races 63
P. 307 CASE : FORECASTS OF HORSE RACES
We are indebted to the Hon. John Godley of BalHol College, Oxford, for
the following report of his three prophetic dreams. Mr Godley is well
known to Mr Parsons, a member of the Council of the Society, to whom
the account was sent in September 1946. The cases are particularly well
substantiated. Mr Godley and certain of the witnesses were interviewed
by Mr Richard Wilson, another Council member, who has added some
comments. The racing details—dates, times and odds—have been checked
by reference to The Times.
How TO Back Winners
" On the night of Friday, March 8th 1946, I dreamt w-hat many would
like to dream—that I was looking at the next day's evening paper. I
dreamt that I was looking at the next day's racing results, with all the
winners and prices written out in full. And in the dream I noticed that
two horses had won w'hich I had backed unsuccessfully on their last
outing, and I remember being annoyed in the dream because I had missed
them this time. The names of the horses were Bindal and Juladin ; and
in my dream they both started at 7-1.
" When I woke up, I remembered the dream, but of all the results I
had dreamt I could only remember those two names : Bindal and Juladin.
I thought no more about it till later in the day, when I happened to look
at the morning paper and discovered to my surprise that both these horses
were running that very afternoon. I told a number of my friends, who all
advised me to back them ; some of them backed them themselves. So,
after some consideration, I did the same, in singles and in a double.
Perhaps it was foolish to do so ; but I felt it would be even more
foolish to miss such an opportunity, if by any chance the horses should
win.
" Bindal was the first of the two to run. I bought my evening paper,
and the first part of my dream had come true. So I promptly put all my
winnings on to Juladin, which was running (as in my dream) in the last
race ; then I spent an uncomfortable hour or two waiting for a late paper.
When at last it came, I somehow felt quite confident that I would win;
and, sure enough, Juladin also had been successful. The two horses had
started at 5-4 and 5-2, so that the odds for the double were 7I-1, a figure
very close to the 7-1 of my dream. My friends and I won over thirty
pounds between us."
Some further points
" In the dream, Bindal appeared more or less at the top of the page,
Juladin right at the bottom. This was not as it happened in fact, for
Bindal was running in the 2nd or 3rd race at the principal race meeting
and Juladin in the last race at the secondary race meeting."
64 Journal of Society for Psychical Research june-july 1947
Dream II
For a week after this first dream, I slept with paper and pencil beside
me. If I dreamt again, I was determined to remember it all. But nothing
happened. And after a while I forgot the whole incident, and gave up
hope that it would ever happen again.
" But two nights before the Grand National (Wednesday, April 3rd
1946), almost the same thing happened. Again I dreamt that I was
looking at the racing results. But this time, when I awoke, I could only
remember one of the winners—Tubermore ; and next day there was no
such horse running. But on the following day in the first race at Aintree,
there was a horse called Tuberose ; and the two names were so alike that
I decided to take a chance. With my brother and sister I put on three
pounds each way ; and that afternoon Tuberose came in at 100-6.
Between us we won just over sixty pounds.
" I had never heard of Tuberose before that day. It was an uncon-
sidered outsider. I have watched its fortunes since, and it has never won
another race."
In a telephone conversation with the Research Officer, 8th June, 1947, Mr
Godley explained that he was staying at his home in Ireland at the time of
his second dream. As the papers would not be delivered at his home in
time for him to find out before the race whether Tubermore was running,
he rang up the local postmistress, who gave him the information about
Tuberose.
Dream III "
'
" Once again I tried hard to dream more winners. Once again I gave
up all hope of succeeding. Months went by and nothing happened ;
then, on the 28th July, 1946, I dreamt again.
" This time it was different. I was in Oxford at tlie time, and in my
dream I went into a certain hotel to ring up my bookmaker. It is my
invariable habit to get the racing results from the evening paper, when I
am interested in them, but on this occasion, in my dream, I decided to
get them by contacting my bookie. I was smoking a cigarette, and the
call-box seemed very stufl^y. When I got through, I said to the man who
answered me :
'
This is Mr Godley. I wonder if you could tell me the
result of the last race?' And his reply was '
Certainly, sir : Monumentor
at 5-4 '. Then I woke up ; it was two o'clock in the morning and I was
extremely sleepy ; but I managed to persuade myself to get up and write
down the name so that I should remember it in the morning. When I
looked at the paper at breakfast time, I discovered that the favourite for
the last race that 'day was called Mentores.
" Again I told my friends, and I again decided to back the horse. The
name, though substantially the same, v/as different from that in my dream.
I decided that as, in the dream„, I had rung up my bookie, I would have,
in fact, to reproduce the conditions. So at five o'clock I went along to the
hotel, and waited till the result of the race would be known.
" At ten past five I lit a cigarette. Then I went into the call-box and
put through a call to London. It was very stuffy in the call-box. At last
I got through. - . !
JUNE-JULY 1947 Forecasts of Horse Races 65
'
This is Mr Godley '
I said. '
I wonder if you could tell me the result
of the last race?' '
Certainly, sir '
he replied :
'
Mentores at 6-4.' Once
again, everything happened in general as in the dream ; once again I was
wrong in the minor details ; but once again I had done it, and though this
was a smaller success (my winnings were jTG) it had brought the total
profit to my friends and myself well above the hundred mark."
Further Points
" In the case of Bindal and Juladin, I knew the names previously, but
had no idea they were running the following day. I had never heard of
Tuberose. There is a horse called Tubbermore, whose name I knew
before the dream. It ran about seven days after the second dream, and I
backed it for luck and it did not win. I had never consciously seen the
name Mentores. There is a horse called Momentun (not very like) whose
name I did not know before. I backed this too, and it didn't win either
—
in fact it came in last in a big field."
In answer to the Research Officer's questions, Mr Godley gave the
following additional information :
" The prophetic dreams were no different in character from ordinary
dreams. I am rather spasmodic in having dreams that I can remember
without conscious effort, sometimes having a great many, sometimes very
few.
" I can recall no previous psychic experiences whatever. There is, on
the other hand, very strong evidence of psychic faculty on the part of my
Mother, who about the time of the 1914-18 war, had a very remarkable
series of fulfilled (precognitive) dreams. I have had no further racing
dreams.
" I remember the actual odds because I remember how much money I
won. The newspaper was not preserved on each occasion (The odds have
been checked by reference to The Times—RW). It is not surprising, for
example, that I can remember in the second case, that we put on ,^3 each
way and won ^62 los. od., from which it is an easy mathematical opera-
tion to discover that the odds were 100-6, etc., etc. I remember the
'
dream '
odds because they approximated to the actual odds ... it doesn't
seem to me to require a great feat of memory to remember such
things."
For corroboration of the first dream, the names and addresses were
given of six witnesses, four of whom benefited financially. Upwards of
twenty undergraduates also benefited. A short interview was given by one
of them, Mr M. Pilch, who confirmed that he profited by the precognitive
knowledge. Another, Mr A. Richardson, sent a corroborative account.
Extracts are given below :
" All that I say in this letter is strictly true, and where I am at all
uncertain, I say so.
" One Saturday morning in last Hilary Term, I was speaking to John
Godley outside Holywell Manor where we both lived. He said : 'I'm
faced with a frightful problem. I had an extraordinary dream last night ;
there was a list of horses, and the horse at the top of the list was called
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jUNE-jULY 1947
Bindal and the horse at the bottom of the hst was called Juladin. In my
dream I backed these two horses and they both won, and I won money at
odds of 7 to I.'
John Godley went on to say :
" '
Now the extraordinary thing is that, although, of course, I follow
racing, I knew both of these horses existed. I did not know they were
running today, and at breakfast I looked in the paper and I found that
Bindal is due to run in the 4 o'clock at Wetherby and Juladin in the
I o'clock at Plumpton.'
"
(Note : A. R. persuaded John Godley to put ^^i on for him).
" Later I told several of my friends about the dream, and John Godley
told various other people, too. I think four other chaps put money on as
a result. Altogether at least twenty to thirty people must have known
what had happened. As it was, I received ^2 17s. 6d.—los. on each
horse, and they both won. But I believe that owing to odds shortening, a
double on the horses, did produce exactly 7-1 and that John Godley
himself won at these odds.
It is the only time I have ever backed a horse, and I know nothing
about racing."
Alan Richardson ,
Dream II was substantiated by the following statement made by two
members of Mr Godley's family, both of whom benefited :
" We Certify that (to the best of our knowledge) the attached article
'
How TO Back Winners '
(together with the addition '
some further
points ') is a truthful account of an actual happening."
signed John Godley
Wynne Godley
Katharine Komierowska
The Research Officer also interviewed a person who remembered being
told about the Tuberose dream before the race was run.
Dream III was not so clear, and although John Godley was willing to
risk money on it himself, he was less ready to involve other people. Mr
Godley mentioned it on one occasion when about six people were present,
but he did not know their names and none of them has as yet come forward
to corroborate the account.
Mr Wilson adds the following comments :
A case of this sort does not prove precognition. It might be telepathy
from some people who think that one horse is going to win. This is
especially so when the horse is '
held back '
and the odds shorten at the
last moment.
In this case, Bindal, Juladin and Mentores were either favourites, or
mentioned (in The Times) as possible winners. Tuberose was an outsider.
There was no last minute shortening of odds.
JUNE-JULY 1947 Forecasts of Horse Races 67
In estimating the value of ostensibly supernatural material, care must be
exercised in order to make an unbiassed judgment. The researcher
always has to exercise judgment at some stage ; in experimental researches,
two methods are used to make his judgment unbiassed ; in card-guessing
experiments, there are only two possibilities—right or wrong—so it is easy
to judge. In drawing experiments, someone who is otherwise not
connected with the experiment has to do the scoring.
In spontaneous cases, neither method is possible. Judgment must be
exercised after the case, and without full knowledge of the details. But
the Godley case goes a long way to meeting this difficulty. The pre-
cognitive content was realised and acted upon before its fulfilment. This
is more convincing than cases in which the precognitive content is only
realised after the event.
Research Officer's Note
There can be no shadow of doubt, at any rate in the first two cases, that
Mr Godley made the predictions described, and said they were based on
dreams. He made no secret of the matter, and in the first case many
Balliol students benefited, while in the second his own family made the
most of the forecast.
There is, however, one possible normal explanation which does not
seem to have been mentioned. Mr Godley studies racing, and presumably
knew a lot about horses. It is not inconceivable that he had picked
up hints at some time. Mr Godley declares that consciously he did not
know that Bindal and Juladin were running and that he did not even
know the name of Tuberose. Even so, there may have been some
subconscious awareness that these were good horses, in which case the
dreams might have been only an externalisation of this subconscious
conviction.
Dr. Thouless points out in connection with this case that while the
combined odds on the four dream horses amount to the significant figure
of 347 : I , this estimate depends upon the four recorded instances being
the only horses betted upon as a result of dreams, and not just a selected
sample of those that happen to have won. Mr Godley states that these
were all his racing dreams, but it is of course impossible to obtain
corroborative testimony on the point.
Postscript
After this case had gone to press, Mr Godley reported still another
dream. In a statement dated June i8th, 1947, he writes :
" On the night of the 13/14 June, 1947, I dreamt that I was at a race
meeting. I w^as standing near the finishing post when the runners came
down towards the finishing post. I recognised the colours of the leading
horse—or rather of its jockey—to be those of the Gaekwar of Baroda, and
I knew the jockey to be the Australian, E. Britt. Baroda's horse won easily.
" Almost immediately afterwards, in my dream, the bookies were shout-
ing the odds for the next race. There was one horse which was being
heavily backed and was at long odds on. It was called '
The Bogie '. A
68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research june-july 1947
little later the next race took place. People began shouting '
The favourite
wins ', '
It's the Bogie ', etc., etc. The horses reached the finishing post,
and The Bogie was an easy winner.
" On reference to the morning papers when I got up, I at once looked for
any horse that was owned by Baroda and ridden by Britt. N.B.—Britt is
Baroda's regular jockey and rides most of his horses. At Lingfield that
afternoon there was only one horse running in the Baroda colours, and
this was being ridden by Britt. It was called Baroda Squadron. In the
next race, the 4.30, the forecast favourite was a horse called The Brogue.
The name seemed similar enough, and I backed them both.
" Baroda Squadron won by a short head at 11- 10, and The Brogue won
by two lengths at 9-1 on, thus confirming the fact in my dream that the
second horse would be at prohibitive odds.
" I did, in fact, make two mistakes. In my dream, there was a consider-
able number of runners—ten to fifteen—in the first race. In fact, there
were only three—Baroda Squadron started joint favourite with Invasion.
Secondly, in my dream, the Baroda horse won very easily—by three or four
lengths. In fact, it 'was an extremely close race, and my choice only got
the verdict by a short head.
(Signed) John Godley "
In an accompanying letter, Mr Godley described how he had obtained
corroboration :
" I took the trouble on this occasion to make sure that the whole matter
was perfectly evidenced. I told four responsible friends on the morning
of the race, and at 2 o'clock in the afternoon I made out an account of the
dream and signed it. This was witnessed and signed by two independent
witnesses, including the postmaster at a local post office. It was sealed at
2.30 p.m. and deposited in the post office safe. At 3.45, I rang up the
Sunday Pictorial offices and notified them of the dream. The Daily Mirror
sent a reporter to interview me yesterday—vide this morning's edition of
that paper!—and in his presence the sealed statement was opened and in
the presence of the postmaster concerned. This statement is now in the
Daily Mirror offices, but they have promised to return it."
On June i6th, 1947, an official of the Daily Mirror telephoned the
Research Officer and confirmed the fact that Mr Godley had notified the
newspaper at 3.45 p.m. on Saturday, June 14th, that Baroda Squadron
would win the four o'clock, and The Brogue the four-thirty that day.
(See Daily Mirror for June i8th, 1947.)
It will be noticed that these two additional forecasts, interesting psycho-
logically, add little to the statistical significance of the combined pre-
diction. Baroda Squadron was a favourite, and The Brogue had the
extraordinary odds of 9 to i in its favour.
JUNE-JULY 1947 A Case of Premonition 69
P. 308. A CASE OF PREMONITION
The following case came to us through Dr Soal to whom the contributor
(here called Mrs Violet Morley) wrote in the first instance. Her letter,
dated 26.11.46, reads as follows :
" [Some years ago] I had a picture—in my waking consciousness—of my
eldest son [Herbert^ dead in the bath. This haunted me so much that I
became rather a nuisance to him, for when he was having a bath I made
all sorts of excuses to knock at the bathroom door to see if he wanted
anything. I said nothing to him of the picture I had seen, but I told my
youngest son \Peter'\ at the time, and I used to get him to go to the bath-
room door to see if his brother was alright.
" This went on for a couple of years, when Herbert went away. He
returned for a holiday and it all came into my mind again—the picture
was so vivid, I could not get it out of my mind.
" One evening, he was going to play tennis, and was having a bath before
going out. His younger brother, just before going out, wanted to see him,
so he opened the door. . . . For a long time I heard him whistling and
singing. I was dressed to go out also, but I could not bring myself to leave
him alone in the house. After a while I heard the water run out of the
bath and waited to hear him singing as usual. But there was no sound,
and as I listened outside the door I heard heavy breathing. I went in and
there he lay, exactly as I had seen him two years before ; the chain had
broken off ;
(he must have grasped it as he felt himself falling), he was
almost purple and only the whites of his eyes showed. I had to leave him
alone and run out. ... I stopped a motorist to ask him to fetch a doctor.
The doctor cam.e, and between us we got him to his room. What had
happened was that during the night something had gone wrong with the
geyser—and the bath-room window (which had been open) must have
been shut by a draught. Fortunately, though I never thought of carbon-
monoxide—the first thing I did was to open all nearby windows and
doors, otherwise I should also have gone under.
" Without boring you with further details—with the aid of a bottle of
neat whisky—the doctor brought him round and he is alive and well
to-day.
" Now wJiat possible explanation can there be for this.' We are an Irish
family—my mother was accredited with second sight—and most of us are
more or less psychic."
Mrs. Morley was interviewed at her home by Mr. F. W. Mashan, a
member of the Society, who reports as follows :
I stayed about half an hour, during which time Mrs V. Morley intro-
duced her daughter-in-law Mrs Kathleen Morley—wife of her elder son
Herbert. They both seemed convinced of the reality of the pre-vision.
" Mrs V. Morley has had plenty of previous (and subsequent) premoni-
tions most of which, she says, although veridical, are not of evidential
value to anyone except herself. In fact, both of them regaled me with
several incidents of varying degrees of '
spookiness '.
7° Joiiriial of Society for Psychical Research june-july 1947
" They have forgotten the name of the doctor who attended Herbert.
" The incident happened about 14 years ago. [Herbert] was in his
twenties at the time. She said nothing to him (as he only scoffed at his
mother's psychic stories) but she told lots of other people, particularly her
younger son [Peter] and Herberfs fiancee (now wife) Kathleen. Mrs
Morley and her daughter-in-law were both reluctant to mention the matter
to Herbert who is apparently very sensitive on the subject.
" There is no doubt in my mind that they are both sincerely convinced
that this incident occurred. She didn't pass it on to the S.P.R. until she
was encouraged to send it to Dr Soal by reading about his work in the
press last year."
This premonition is particularly interesting because of the improbability
of chance fulfilment of such an unusual impression. It is a pity that the
case was not reported for so long, and that there is no corroboration from
the main party concerned or from the doctor. It might be suggested that
the unsatisfactory nature of the geyser gave rise to apprehensions in
Mrs Morley's mind, but that would not explain why her apprehensions
were all centred upon Herbert.
CASE : VERIDICAL INFORMATION OBTAINED THROUGH
M. Ill A OUIJA BOARD
We are indebted for the account which follows to Mrs Grace McCombie
Young, wife of a member of the Society. The incident happened nine
years ago, but letters written at the time have been preserved. Mrs Young
writes as follows :
" When staying with friends in Ireland, at Belville Park, Cappoquin,
in 1928, Marcelle C. (the daughter of the house) and myself were operating
a ouija board and our hostess, Mrs D. C. was taking notes. We obtained
the following '
communication '
:
'
Child dead, June, June.'
" At first I was unable to place this, then I recalled that my first cousin
Muriel M. had had a child named June. Some weeks previously, a cable
had come from Canada to the child's grandmother, when we were with
her, saying '
June dead, bringing body home '.
" Mrs C. then suggested that we should ask what the child had died
of. This was done, and the board spelled '
Boiling water, boiling
water '.
" This answer seemed so silly we ceased further operations and nothing
more was obtained.
" Subsequently I received a letter from a friend, dated October 12th,
saying that she had heard from the dead child's aunt what had happened
She wrote as follows. '
I suppose you have heard what killed Muriel's
little girl—falling into a tub of scalding water.'
PLATE 1
THE POLTERGEIST AT NETHERFIELD
Photograph of the clock w hich caused
the " phenomena "
JUNE-JULY 1947 Veridical Information 71
" Later and more detailed information showed that the child was about
to be bathed by a nurse who had filled a bath with scalding water, and
finding it too hot for use, she went to fetch some cold water to cool it. On
her return she found that the unattended child had fallen into the bath
of scalding water, from which she received burns which proved fatal.
" The interest of the '
communication '
appears to lie in the fact that I
had not myself at that time any conscious knowledge of the cause of that
child's death, nor, in so far as I can judge, had any other person in Ireland
any such knowledge, which only subsequently transpired from the receipt
of letters from Canada."
In answer to questions by the Research Officer, Mrs Young wrote again
as follows :
" Most certainly no one in the house where I was staying knew even
of the death of the child. The friends with whom I was staying did not
know any of my relatives. June's grandmother lived [in another county].
... I had not met Marcelle C. until a week or so previously. ... So little
did I think of the child's death that I had forgotten its name, and Marcelle
C. and I both agreed we knew no one of the name June. It was only on
questioning the ouija board and it suddenly said '
Muriel ', that [I
realised who it was]."
The letter mentioned by Mrs Young, which told of the child's death
by scalding, was enclosed with her account. Also enclosed was a letter
from Mrs D. C, date 12th October, in which she writes :
" How extraordinary about the little child. I wish I could find the
notes but fear I burned them at the time. Are you sure it did not say too
that she fell into boiling water? I seem to remember thinking at the time
that it was romancing and that the burning was unlikely."
In assessing the value of a case of this kind, it must not be forgotten
that death by scalding with boiling water is regrettably common among
infants.
The following report is sent to us by the King's College Society for
Psychical Research of Durham University.
CASE : THE POLTERGEIST AT NETHERFIELD 1
Allen J. Sharp
Dennis B. Cameron
The first report of " paranormal " disturbances at Netherfield appeared
as a front page article in the Northern Echo in July 1946, and was followed
^ For reasons that will be obvious from the account, real names are not used
in this report.
72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research june-july 1947
a little later by a shorter article in the Sunday Dispatch. In both cases an
urgent request was made for investigators and in viev/ of this our treasurer,
Mr Cameron, offered his services, and those of the present writer, on behalf
of this Society. The offer being immediately accepted, Friday 19th found
us on our way to the mining village of Netherfield which lies in South
Durham.
Travelling there by bus, our appearance quickly centred upon us the
attention of the other passengers who were more than willing to talk about
" the ghost house ".
A popular theory was that the whole affair was a hoax on the part of the
owners in order to secure a new house. It became very obvious that they
were not popular in the village, due, we learned later, to their keeping
themselves aloof.
The house was the last in the row, a field on one side and an adjoining
cottage on the other, the houses being built in pairs. There were only
three rooms, two on the ground floor and one above. The upper room
was lit by a small window at the front, the roof at the back sloping down
to the level of the floor.
Miss C. (aged 43), the owner, had recently undergone a serious opera-
tion and was in bed most of the day. This was in the sitting room. The
other two occupants were her sister, Mrs R. (41) and Brenda (21) who
was Mrs R.'s daughter. Both slept in the room above.
We were surprised to learn that the knocking had occurred spasmodi-
cally for three years, about a year after they took the house. Miss C.
said that the noises appeared to come from the ceiling below the bedroom.
We were led to understand that this " ceiling " was merely cardboard
papered over. Above this were the beams holding the floorboards of the
bedroom.
Having seen us settled in the kitchen the family retired about midnight.
We had been led to expect the beginning of manifestations about one
o'clock. We thought, however, that they were a little early when at
12.20 a.m. two sharp cracks came from the tallboys, due most probably to
the room cooling. We were keeping a small fire on through the night but
the temperature had dropped from 80 to 77° F.
At 1.15 a.m. Miss C. called us through into the front room. After a
moment we heard a knock, faint but quite distinct. It sounded like hollow
wood being struck and indeed appeared to come from the ceiling. The
sound was repeated a few times and we went upstairs to the bedroom.
Here the sound was most deceiving, each tap seeming to originate in a
different part of the room. Mr Sharp returned to Miss C. leaving Mr
Cameron alone in the bedroom (alone that is apart from its sleeping
occupants). While I talked with Miss C. the knocking became frequent.
She told me that she suffered from recurring nightmares. This she
admitted was quite enough to explain the incident reported in the news-
papers when she had been dragged downstairs by the " ghost ". She
later commented that she had no doubt that the entity was a woman as
" a man would'nt bother to stay awake all night "!
About three o'clock I heard a new sound like feet crossing the floor
above on tiptoe. This I presumed to be Mr Cameron, but it subsequently
transpired that Mr Cameron had not been moving at that time but had
JUNE-JULY 1947 Poltergeist at Netherfield 73
heard a noise which he described as Hke wire being dragged across the
floor. We heard the noise again after he had rejoined me downstairs. It
was then 4.15 a.m. and quite Ught so we returned to the bedroom.
We heard more knocks and at 4.55 a.m. another new sound Hke the
rolling of a heavy weight on the floor, the occupants of the room being
under our observation at the time. One minute later a succession of light
taps occurred. This appeared to end the performance and at 5.15 a.m.,
having heard no more, we went outside to photograph the house. Mr
Thompson, the owner of the adjoining house (to whom his neighbours in
question had not spoken for three years) was just leaving for work and
we had a short conversation with him. He said that he didn't know
that we had been staying the night next door. He had never heard the
knocking.
Before we left we inspected the bedroom and found that the chair by
the bedside produced a noise when struck not so loud but identical with
the noises of the night. Being hardly in a position to openly exploit such
a suspicious discovery we decided that a second visit was necessary to
clinch the case.
Upon our second visit three weeks later we determined to exclude all
chance of fraud and while leaving the furniture in whatever convenient
position it may have been placed we arranged to photograph the bedroom
with cameras operated from any room in the house.
Over supper there were four distinct knocks, and a lively evening was
promised. In accordance with the policy of reducing natural causes to a
minimum we asked that the alarm clock which stood on the kitchen
mantelpiece through the day and was taken to the bedroom at night be
left downstairs.
About 1.30 a.m. we were surprised to hear taps in the room beside us,
originating, we discovered, from the clock which was standing on the
chair beside us. Having returned it to its usual place in the bedroom
(upon the chair which had excited our suspicion on the first visit) we
returned downstairs and after a few moments were rewarded with a
surprisingly loud knock. By 2.30 a.m. we had not only heard more
knocks but the peculiar footsteps which occasionally preceded them (see
Plate I).
The following explanation became at once obvious. The clock spring
releasing in jerks caused the clock to knock on the chair, a sound magnified
greatly by the space between floor and ceiling. We at first imagined that
the clock actually bounced at each knock but later we conjectured that
the noise originated inside the clock. This might explain why the source
of the sound is not at once apparent. Naturally the " phenomena " did
not begin until the family had retired since it was then that the clock was
wound to its fullest, the disturbances ceasing when the spring had released
sufficiently. The footsteps were due to a peculiar ticking which preceded
the knock. The knocks which we had heard, at supper we were able to
produce by placing the clock on the kitchen mantlepiece, and it is by no
means inconceivable that the succession of raps at the end of our first
visit was not a last effort on the part of the spring which would be about
a third unwound. There remains the heavy rolling sound. This cannot
be attributed even to this clock. We cannot discount the possibility of its
74 Jotimal of Society for Psychical Research june-july 1947
being engineered by Miss C. who was alone in the room below, though by
what means I cannot imagine. In our opinion it was probably the result
of some innocent activity by Mr Thompson, who was preparing for work
next door.
In correspondence afterwards. Miss C. maintained that noises had
continued after removal of the clock, but further investigation was refused,
which seems significant. We are quite sure that none of the phenomena
was paranormal.
A CASE OF APPARENT RETROCOGNITION
This case was sent to the Society by Mr J. S. Spence in 1940, but owing
to war conditions was not followed up at the time. The Research Officer
has now been able to get in touch with Mr Spence and he interviewed him
on 29 May 1947. Mr Spence has kindly given permission to print the
case but he points out that his memory of it has become too hazy for him
to give further details, as he could have done when he sent it in. When it
occurred he had not read " An Adventure " ; on doing so eighteen
months later he thought it worth reporting his own case as being of an
apparently similar type.
Mr Spence 's Statement
*
On an unusually warm, sunny morning in March 1938, I walked down
to a Devonshire cove, which impressed and elated me by its tranquillity
after the rush and noise of London. I strolled casually across the beach,
exploring the rocks and pools, towards the end of the headland on the far
side. As I went the atmosphere, which had at first so much appealed
to me, grew heavy and depressing. Eventually, in a little inlet in the
headland, I came upon a cave which seemed large enough to enter
on hands and knees. I felt very much afraid but curiosity drove me
into it. A few yards down the tunnel I noticed daylight ahead and
after a further two or three yards I found myself in a vast cave which
apparently extended to the further side of the headland as I was only in
semi-darkness.
Although there was clearly no one in the cave I had an unpleasant
feeling of being watched and scrambled back to the cove through the
little tunnel as quickly as was consistent with self respect. I now sought
and found a little path by which I could clamber up the cliff and once on
top I set out to climb to the summit of the ridge, less than a quarter of a
mile away. I now felt even more depressed and lonely than before and
had the impression that something was straining at a leash so that one
TO I SORROWMEAD
PARK
- + -+- + - + >+ - + - + _^.,
(Thurs.Vday) >
,f /cliff PATH
^ '~ ' ^ '
.' (Tuesday)
CLIFF^* PATH
Ground rising
at average of
I in I
I E L D
X +
\ /
Jr
^ /
+ /
'
/•
r/
ST1LE^\\
'ry
Entrance to(Cave
(North Side);
1
\
/ /
I I
Entrance to Cave
(South Side)
Wall on
headland
V.
, 'Wall would
'^'have continued
along this
', line
;
I
1/
* • a
* I
OLD 0WALL>
+ — +-- Scene of fall
Appearance of
Cliff Edge on
Tuesday and ,
Thursday
O
0
^^ Rocks
Rocky
Shore
LONE TREE & GATE
• — — • — Route taken Tuesday
xxxxxxxxxx ..
Wednesday
— + —1
1
— '• .. Thursday
76 Journal of Society for Psychical Research june-july 1947
could almost hear the noise that that something made, trying to break the
bonds. However, I went on slowly, through waistdeep bracken and
bramble. After ten minutes or so I came upon a long old-fashioned type
of wall made of slabs of stone and earth—no mortar. The stone looked
very fresh and there were no creepers on it. As I passed through a gap,
left as if for a gate, I noticed that the wall stretched about 80 yards or so
over grass, brambles and bracken to the edge of the cliff, which was there
very high. Almost at right angles to it another wall sloped steeply
down the hill and disappeared among the scrub and bracken on the
headland.
I was puzzled why the walls should be there but decided that if I were
not to be late for lunch I must hurry on to my objective, a point where,
according to a large scale ordnance map, I would find a solitary tree beside
an old gate. On looking ahead I saw neither the tree nor the gate, but a ^
mass of stunted trees, bent by the prevailing wind. The heat was terrific
and the stillness awful so I hurried on to get into the shade. As I went
forward the atmosphere became less charged and less tense and for the
first time since I had entered the cove about half an hour earlier, I heard
a definitely real sound : a seagull flew over my head screaming. Then,
to my surprise, I saw ahead the lone tree and gate and I was also surprised
to find on looking back, that the grass seemed greener and fresher and the
bracken less than when I had passed through it. The wall was apparently
hidden behind the brow of the hill. My head was aching less and I could
breathe more easily. When I got home I felt astonishingly weary and my
usual good appetite had quite disappeared.
The next day I decided to set forth on the same walk about the same
time. The sun was even warmer than the day before but the odd depres-
sing feeling and the strange stillness had gone. On reaching the cove I
was surprised to find the tide right up, for the day before it must have
been low to enable me to cross the beach to the cave in the headland.
Surely, I thought, the tide cannot alter more than an hour a day. I turned
back and climbed the hill behind towards the summit of the ridge and the
wall. On reaching the top I was amazed to find myself near the edge of a
cliffy, and with no sign of a long new wall, and I thought I must have gone
wrong. There was certainly a very old scrap of wall covered in ivy, with
another portion leaving it at right angles, but within a few feet it broke
off at the edge of the cliff. My eye then followed the branch wall, expect-
ing to see it disappear in scrub, but it, too, stopped abruptly, very dilap-
idated, at the edge of the cliff.
For a while this puzzled me : then I gave it up and walked on. Almost
at once I was startled to see the lone tree and the gate. I was certain I had
been in the same spot the day before and had seen only a mass of bent and
stunted trees and I knew I had seen a long new wall. I came to the
conclusion I must have taken the wrong path and I decided to return the
next day with a torch and a camera and explore the cave and find the
wall. How I had come to miss my way in such a small area was beyond •
me.
I reached the cove next morning to find the tide fairly full and I could
not get across to the cave for a couple of hours. I distinctly remembered
the little inlet in the headland where I had entered the cave at sea level .
JUNE-JULY 1947 Apparent Retrocognition 77
but on reaching it there was no cave. I at last found, a few feet up in a
pile of shale and hidden by a large boulder, an entrance to what was
obviously a cave, but far smaller than it had been two days before. As a
large pile of shale showed signs of collapse and there was hardly room
to wriggle in, I decided not to risk it and walked back to find the path
by which I had climbed the cliff. This was not to be seen, but further
along I found another which led up on to the headland. Here, to satisfy
myself as to my whereabouts, I made my way through some bracken and
over a stile to the end of the headland and then returned to where I
expected to hnd the top of the path by which I had climbed the first day.
The place, however, looked impossible to get down and I wondered how
I had ever got up, so I decided to go along the cliff towards Dartmouth.
As I reached the top of the cliff path the atmosphere became charged and
unfriendly again. I had the same tight feeling across my forehead and
felt the sweat breaking out.
There came that peculiar sensation of something straining at its leash.
There was no particular sound to this effect, to which I could have stopped
and listened, and possibly logically explained, but I received the impres-
sion, on a much larger scale, as it were, of a cart-horse straining at a
wagon-load of bricks which it could not possibly drag.
I moved on mechanically through the ferns, which suddenly seemed to
have become waist deep again, and it was with considerable difficulty that
I made any progress.
I had forgotten about the wall until I came to it, in front of me with its
new-looking slabs of stone, neatly placed into and against each other.
Down to the left it stretched for some way, over grass and brambles and
bracken to the edge of the cliff. Furthermore, another wall jutted away
from it almost at right angles, and sloped sharply down the hill, nearly in
the direction in which I had come, and disappeared amongst scrubs and
undergrowth somewhere on the headland.
I went up close to the wall and walked a few paces forward. I felt
giddy, as if looking from a great height, but in front of me, without any
doubt, stretched the wall. On an impulse, I pulled out my camera, and
attempted to find an object in the view-finder, but my giddiness increased
and I clicked the shutter with very little care. I put the camera back in my
pocket and prepared to move forward (see Plate II).
I had gone only one short pace, when I felt my left foot slip, and
go down as if in a rabbit-hole. The shock threw me off my balance, and
my left foot twisted so that I felt my body collapse. As I fell, my hand
grasped wildly and came into contact with tufts of thick coarse grass,
and I held on tight. My body came to rest on my twisted left foot,
while my right shot into space. For a few moments everything went
black.
When I opened my eyes, I immediately became aware of two things :
the shrieking of the seagulls, and the very dangerous position in which I
was. Two small sturdy tufts of grass, and a ledge a few inches wide, on
which my left foot lay, had saved me from the rocks below. Almost
immediately above my head was the broken fragment of an old ivy-covered
wall.
For some minutes I clung to the grass and dared not move. When
78 Journal of Society for Psychical Research june-july 1947
some composure returned, I realised the seriousness of the position. With
great care I gradually wormed my way to a cautious standing position,
though the whole of my weight, until I could bring my right foot on to the
ledge, had to be thrown on to the damaged left. Then I caught hold
of a large tuft of grass further away from the edge of the cliff, tested
it, and pulled my right leg up and on to the top of the cliff. The left leg
followed slowly. I dared not look back, but carefully 1 manoeuvred my
way on to my stomach to a safe position some vards from the top of the
cliff.
After a few minutes my mind cleared a little. The atmosphere had
returned to normal, and the tremendous pressure that I had felt had gone.
I looked to the right. The lone tree and gate were in their proper positions.
Out in front, where the wall had stretched, was nothing but space, but
some distance out at sea there was a group of rocks.
Then, as if suddenly becoming aware of my recent escape, I got up and
as quickly as possible set off home. Down the slope towards the cove I
suddenly remembered the portion of the wall that had jutted out at right
angles, which had appeared to stretch to the headland, to be lost in
brambles. So I went out on to the headland and after a long search found
not far from the edge of the cliff and directly in line with the tumbledown
bit, which could be seen on top of the ridge, a fragment of wall, buried in
the bramble (see Plate II).
Comments sent with Statement by Mr Spence
I visited the cove on three consecutive days : Tuesday, Wednesday and
Thursday.
The Atmosphere
The atmosphere on the Wednesday was normal, and different from the
Tuesday and latter part of the Thursday visit.
If I got some glimpse of this corner of the world as it was, possibly
centuries ago, I must have been under that spell only for certain definite
periods.
On the Tuesday I felt the oppression as soon as I reached the beach,
and throughout the period in question, until a short while after I left
the ridge, and saw the solitary tree and gate, which had appeared as a
mass of stunted trees when I had viewed it from the vicinity of the
wall.
The Wednesday was a perfectly normal time, although the weather and
temperature remained the same.
On the Thursday, everything was normal until the moment when I
turned from the cliff path, because I didn't think I could get down.
There is httle doubt that the path had disappeared. Instead of a field I
found waist-deep bracken. Conditions in the atmosphere became worse
as I reached the summit, where the pressure was terrific.
PLATE II
Photograph taken by Mr Spence just
before he walked off the chft'-edge
Photograph of old wall mentioned in Mr Spence 's account
and taken by him after his experience
A CASE OF APPARENT RETROCOGNITION
PLATE 111
PSYCHIC PHENOMENA IN INDONESIA
Photographs of thi- knife-cutting episode in the
(iimon-tlispersing Ceremonv
JUNE-JULY 1947 Apparent Retrocognition 79
The Tide
This cannot be explained reasonably. On the Tuesday the tide was
right out, a distance of at least 150 yards, and on the Wednesday and
Thursday practically full. As it was the same time every day, this is,
according to the laws of the tide, impossible.
On the Tuesday, high tide at Torquay was 9.34 a.m. and there is a
difference of about 30 to 40 minutes a day. I checked this at the time
from the tide table in Bradshaw's guide.
The Cave
This must have some connection with the rest of the experience.
On the Tuesday the cave was easily found, but not on the Thursday
when it appeared that a landslide had occurred.
The Path
Alters its situation.
The Field
Between the cove and the wall is normally covered in grass and prim-
roses in March, but on the Tuesday and Thursday it was thick bracken.
On the Wednesday, actually, I had walked a long way round : see
route on map.
Lone Tree and Gate
These seemed to appear and disappear quite casually. On the Tuesday,
from the wall, I saw only stunted trees. Yet I had to go only a short
distance before the vision cleared and I saw the tree and gate a little
way off. I noted too, on looking back, that the ground looked less
withered.
The Wall
This subject is the most interesting, because of its weird persistence in
being so out of place, and because of its perfect transfiguration.
Although, on the Thursday, I thought the old portion lay at the end of
the new stretch, I could not see because of the brambles.
The Giddiness
This was obviously due to looking over the edge of the cliff, although I
thought I was looking at a field.
It is odd that I walked over a " ghostly path " and " ghostly field
"
and these did not disappear, but the wall and field at the edge of the clifl:
did.
The danger must have been so apparent to my sub-conscious mind
that it broke the spell.
An important point was the discovery, on the Friday, of a fragment of
wall on the headland at X. Some three weeks later a clifi^ fall occurred,
taking with it the wall marked X in the map.
8o Journal of Society for Psychical Research june-july 1947
Nowadays the cove intervenes but it seems obvious that the two pieces
of wall formed one continuous length at one time.
This case is not evidential. We have to take the narrator's word for
what happened, for the experience was a solitary one and corroboration is
impossible.
There was a lapse of some eighteen months before the account was
written. However, granting the integrity of the witness, it is very difficult
to attribute the supposed experience to a trick of memory or other form of
self-deception. There is the photograph mentioned in the account, and
other photographs of the old wall, which Mr Spence has sent to the
Society. There is the startling fact that at one stage he attempted to step
into thin air.
Moreover, Mr Spence is quite clear that he checked the state of the
tide at once. He also mentioned the incident to his uncle, with whom he
was staying at the time. In a note to the Research Officer dated 3 June
1947 this gentleman says :
" I remember that my nephew—Geofl^rey Spence—did mention some-
thing of his strange experience at Man Sands—but it is so long ago that I
really cannot remember any details whatsoever. All I can say is that I
was somewhat amazed at the time. ..."
There is considerable psychological interest in a hallucination so strong
that it caused the percipient to step oflF a cliffy under the impression that he
was walking along a path, while at the same time he felt giddy as if standing
on a great height. The behaviour of the tide is most curious. While under
the influence of the hallucination, it seemed to Mr Spence that the tide
was far out and that he was crossing the beach, whereas in fact the tide
was in and this would be impossible
This case has much in common with one which appeared in the Journal
(Vol. XXXH, p. 175) where a man and his wife passed a house with black
and orange sun umbrellas in the garden. When they returned it was not
there. Here, the visionary house had not existed in the past (though con-
ceivably it might do so in the future) whereas it is a reasonable deduction
from the circumstances of Mr Spence's experience that the wall and
headland had at one time been as he " saw " them. Both cases are of a
very unusual type.
PSYCHIC PHENOMENA IN INDONESIA
At a discussion meeting held on Wednesday, 14 May 1947, Mr J. H.
Bekker, F. R.A.I. , told of some psychic phenomena he had seen in Indon-
esia. While the details he gave are not evidential, they present an interest-
JUNE-JULY 1947 PsycJiic Phenomena in Indonesia 81
ing picture of the beliefs of primitive peoples in regard to psychic matters.
Some extracts from Mr Bekker's talk are given below :
During the 18 years I lived among the people of Indonesia, I became
acquainted with their customs, ceremonies and religious beliefs, and came
into contact with supernormal phenomena associated with trance, hypno-
tism and demoniacal possession.
The people of Indonesia (better known as the Dutch East Indies) are
not a uniform race. They are of various origins and differ greatly in the
stage of development they have reached.
Mahommedan religion prevails on most of these islands although it is
intermingled with Hindu and Buddhist ideas, as the first influence was
Buddhist and Hindu, especially in Java, Bali and Sumatra. Then there
are some Christians who, however, retain some pre-Christian super-
stitions ; the remainder are animistic pagans. Animism expresses an
idea that every object of nature is animated by spirits. These animists
believe that souls of departed human beings abide everywhere around
them.
Some of the animists have the idea of a Superior Being, but they do not
give him worship. Only the medicine-man knows about him. What the
people are concerned with are the spirits. Day and night they move in a
spiritualistic atmosphere. There are of course the good and evil spirits,
but no native knows exactly which are the good ones and which the evil
ones, which are to be loved and which feared. Usually the spirits of their
ancestors are considered the good ones and the spirits of those who were
enemies or whom they have beheaded are the evil ones. The latter ones
are the most feared. Offerings are made both to the good and the evil
spirits, for the former to attract them and for the latter to keep them away.
Making offerings is the task of the medicine-man, who is the most impor-
tant person in the community. He is believed to be the intermediary
between the people and the spirits. His assistance is invoked on all
occasions. He is the weather-maker, the fortune-teller, he appoints the
lucky days for marriages, house-building, planting, harvesting, but his
most important task is to cure the sick people in the village. With most of
the primitive people, sickness is believed to be caused by the evil spirits
in one form or another. The ceremonies connected with the cure of sick
people are varied and intricate and would require too long a time to
describe. I will therefore mention one which I have witnessed on the
island of Celebes which I last visited in 1938.
The interior of the island is inhabited by pagan tribes. These people
believe that disease is caused by the evil spirits which take temporary
possession of the soul. The exorcism of these spirits is the medicine-
man's task, for he is believed to have the power to communicate with his
guardian spirits and implore their aid to cure the sick.
A striking feature in this ceremony is the medicine-man's demon-
dispersing ministrations. Beginning with the usual drum-beating and
incantations, he tries to cut himself with a knife. If he bleeds, his guardian
spirits have not granted him the power to exorcise the evil spirits, and he
must wait and try again until he fails to draw blood. When he has accom-
plished this, he cuts the patients in their legs, arms, shoulders and
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research june-july 1947
stomachs. The object of cutting the patients is not curative surgery, but
to ascertain whether the patient still has the evil spirits in him. If the
knife draws blood the evil spirit is still present and a further treatment is
necessary. The cutting was executed by downward strokes, and by
drawing across the skin (see Plate III.) Although in many cases the knife
did not draw blood, and there were no marks on the skin afterwards, it
seemed to me that the blows were made with strength and were not halted
before they reached their destination. My wife, who was also present,
agrees with these observations.
Charms are many and they are employed for different purposes. They
may be formulae written in Arabic characters, sometimes text of the
Koran or from romances and folklore. Herbs and plants are also used as
charms. All charms are believed to be in connection with the spirit
world. The people have these charms stuck in their belts as a sort of
talisman.
Charms also accompany the dead to their grave. One is placed in each
coffin, and the people believe that by this means they remain in com-
munication with their dead relatives. Graves are therefore held in high
reverence, and the least disturbance or violation of the burial place is
regarded as a sacrilege. There is no cemetery in our sense ;
graves are
dug on the rice-fields, on slopes of hills, on open plains, usually near their
homes, and marked by oblong stones. It happens sometimes that a very
old grave is so overgrown with vegetation that there is no more trace of a
grave, and when this place is cleared and a house built, then trouble is
sure to come. And here again I have experienced phenomena which are
worth mentioning.
I owned a piece of land high up in the mountains, and apart from a
few coconut palms there was nothing else there. As it was much cooler in
the mountains, I decided to build a week-end bungalow and a laboratory
for developing my films. A three-foot concrete foundation had to be laid
to keep out the damp, and on this foundation the house was built. At last
the building was complete, the machinery and apparatus installed, and we
started to work. My assistants were Javanese, Malay and vSundanese men.
The dark rooms had all been arranged on one side of the building. I told
the men to develop the films ; and they made a few tests, and showed
them to me. When I found the tests were good I told them to develop
the whole film (about 1000 feet). The film was completely ruined after
developing. Thinking that the men made some mistakes, although they
were quite intelligent, I myself made a few tests which came out well, but
after developing another 1000 feet the same thing happened again. This
went on for weeks ; the laboratory was there, but no work could be done.
One day, on my way back from the mountains to the city, I stopped at a
petrol filling station to get some petrol, where I saw an old acquaintance
of mine whom I knew to be strong in magic power. After we had ex-
changed greetings he asked me how I was, as he had not seen me for a long
time. I told him that I lived more in the mountains than in the city, and
invited him to come and see me. On the appointed day he came. I must
point out here that I had told him nothing of the troubles in the laboratory,
and that he was a stranger in this place and never had been there before.
I showed him round the place, and when we came in the vicinity of the
JUNE-JULY 1947 Psychic Phenomena in Indonesia 83
dark rooms he stopped and looked. Neither of us spoke. When we came
into my private office we sat down. He looked at me and said, " There
is something wrong in this building." And then I admitted all what
happened in the last few weeks, and asked him whether he could find out
what was wrong. He then asked for a charcoal fire and incense and seven
different kind of flowers. (The number seven seems to have a great
importance in magic.) He shredded the flowers in his palms, spread his
hands over the fire, and of course murmured some incantations. He then
revealed that this part of the house where the darkrooms were arranged,
was built on graves. I told him that no traces of graves were there when
we started to build, and if the builders, who were all natives, had noticed
the graves they would not have proceeded with the work. To cut a long
story short, we had to break up one corner of the house and the foundation
and after digging down about 5 feet we found skulls and bones which must
have been there for many years. The sorcerer collected these and buried
them in another place, which he marked by an oblong stone, so that the
souls might rest unmolested. Apart from this, offerings had to be made
once a week on Thursday, for three months. This was done by my
assistants. Once a month at full moon, the sorcerer came to make the
offerings himself. This part of the house has been built up again, and
there have been no further troubles.
A spirited discussion followed in which Mr Bekker was closely ques-
tioned by several members. He gave the following additional infor-
mation.
The site on which the laboratory was built was rather sloppy, soft
ground, without rocks or stones. There were coconut-trees which grew
in distances of 6 to 10 feet apart. Graves are never placed where coconut-
trees grow, because the coconuts are harvested by the natives and the
graves would be disturbed. According to their heights the coconut-trees
were about 50 years old or more, and it would therefore be improbable
that anybody could guess there were graves there.
The films which were spoiled I made on my expeditions in Sumatra,
and they dealt with landscapes, ceremonies, dances, and art of the
island.
After two films had been completely ruined I took one part to Kodaks
in Batavia and one part to a Chinese Laboratory in Bandoeng. In both
cases the developing turned out satisfactory.
This incident took place in 1929, about June or July.
Unaided I made three preliminary tests which were satisfactory, and
after developing the whole film I found it was ruined.
The developing tank held 150 litres of liquid. The chemicals were
mixed according to the developing formulae, and the entire process had
been carried out according to the normal regulations for developing. The
tests had been made in the same tank and in the same liquid.
I do not recall other mishaps in these dark rooms. Apart from develop-
ing films nothing else had been done there.
I met the sorcerer who discovered the bones through a friend of mine, a
white man, whom the sorcerer once helped. Since that time I have met
him in Batavia occasionally. He lived in Depok which is near Batavia.
§4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research june-july 1947
I knew him as being of good character and of strong magic power. He
was about 55 or 60 years old.
The petrol filling station was aliout 75 kilometres (46.6 miles) from the
place where the laboratory was built. The name of the place was
Tjitjoeroeg (pronounced Tjitjuruck) between Buitenzorg and Soekaboemi,
on the way from Batavia to Bandoeng. Tjitjoeroeg is about 100 kilometres
(62.1 miles) from Batavia. The sorcerer lived in the village Depok which
was near the petrol station, i.e. he lived about 77 kilometres (48.7 miles)
from the laboratory.
When I invited the man to come and visit me, and mentioned the name
of the place Tjitjoeroeg, he did not know where the place was, or how to
get there. I had to tell him which train to take, and at which station to
get off, and in which direction to walk. I knew the man, and I am sure
he would not have pretended that he had never heard of this place if he
had ever been there.
I told the sorcerer that unless he could prove that there were bones
under the foundation I would not break up the house. The sorcerer and I,
accompanied by one of my servants, whom I ordered to take a shovel and
a pick, went to the corner of the laboratory which the sorcerer indicated
to me. Here I told my servant, who had not asked questions, to dig a hole
about 3 feet square near the concrete. He started to dig. In about
I I hours the hold was some 5 feet deep. The ground was soft, and there
were no rocks or roots of any kind. The sorcerer looked intently while my
servant was digging, and suddenly told the servant not to dig further but
only loosen the earth with a piece of bamboo and remove it with his hands.
After a further 15 minutes, I noticed a long greyish piece which looked to
me like the fibula and tibia. The servant had not noticed it yet, he worked
only on the instructions of the sorcerer, and loosened the earth very gently.
A few minutes later the servant noticed the bones of a foot and refused to
work further because he was afraid he was doing something wrong.
Neither the sorcerer nor myself could persuade him to dig further. He
got out from the hole, but I did not allow him to go away but told him to
remain with me. The sorcerer himself did the digging. Then he cleared
the leg and later a hand and arm showed up. The sorcerer told me that
there were further under the concrete 3 more bodies, making 4 altogether.
I saw the one skeleton, which was just under the place where the
developing tanks stood. This was proof enough for me that this part of
the building must be broken down.
The next day, I sent my house-boy to the native builder with a message
to come and see me immediately. When the builder came, I explained to
him that a part of the building including the foundation had to be broken
down, because I wanted to extend the building. Had I revealed to the
builder the true reason for the demolition, he would never have started the
work as he would not have been able to get men to do the work. Later,
when we found the skeletons and bones, I told him the true story.
It may surprise you that there were no cofiins, and I should like to
point out here that poor natives are very often buried without a coffin,
wrapped in only a piece of cloth (Saroeng) which they have worn during
their lifetime.
I should like to confirm that during the whole digging I stood with my
JUNE-JULY 1947 Research Officer's Notes 85
eyes fixed on the hole and never left for a second. It is impossible that
the bones had been placed in the hole by someone during the digging,
because there were only three of us, the sorcerer, my boy and myself.
While the boy was digging the sorcerer and I watched, and when the
sorcerer started to dig, the boy stood next to me, and we two watched.
Had anyone dropped the bones into the hole, I would have seen it, apart
from the fact that there were not only single bones but a complete corpse.
RESEARCH OFFICER'S NOTES
/. The Infra-red Telescope
One of the many inventions developed during the war is an apparatus
with which one can " see in the dark ". There have been several refer-
ences to this instrument in the press of recent months. Its use in night-
time manoeuvres, such as tracking criminals, has been enlarged upon,
and many people may have wondered about its application to the seance
room.
The fact is, there are models of infra-red telescope ideally suited to the
investigation of physical phenomena. There has to be a source of infra-
red radiation in the room, but this can readily be adjusted to give off no
visible light whatever. An optical device quite similar to an ordinary
telescope picks up and focusses the infra-red light reflected from objects
and people in the room. The instrument forms an image on a fluorescent
screen. With a good source of light, every detail of a completely dark
room can be made as visible as if it were flooded with bright sunlight.
Looking through the instrument one can read the time by the wrist watch
of a person three yards away.
The significance of this infra-red telescope for psychical investigation
can hardly be over-estimated. Physical mediums may sit in inky black-
ness, but in spite of that handicap their phenomena can be watched and
studied almost as easily as if they were taking place in broad daylight.
To the genuine medium this will be a welcome innovation. The disagree-
able methods of manual control, the switching on and off of red lights,
the constant suspicion of something underhanded going on in the dark,
in fact all the unpleasantness and discomfort of the old-fashioned seance
can be avoided by the judicious application of this new instrument. The
genuine medium has everything to gain and nothing to lose by sitting
with this instrument, and we may look forward with confidence to a much
clearer understanding of physical phenomena in the near future. For
the fraudulent medium on the other hand, the telescope will be very
disturbing.
I am pleased to say that the Society is being very kindly lent one of these
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research june-july i
947
infra-red telescopes for use in its seance room. Members who are in
touch with physical mediums will be able to invite them to come to the
Society for this new and pleasant form of investigation. There have
always been some people who, rightly or wrongly, maintain that the
suspicious and critical attitude of the usual scientific investigator either
inhibits genuine phenomena, or else encourages fraud. With the facilities
which will soon be available at the Society, these people will be able to
investigate on their own and literally " see it for themselves ".
It would of course be possible to use an infra-red telescope without the
medium being aware of its presence, but such a policy is unnecessary.
No genuine medium can have any reason to fear the new device. Only
the fraudulent medium will be put oft, and after all we do not want to
waste time with frauds.
//. Offer to Genuine Physical Mediums
Some interested psychical investigators, who wish to remain anonymous,
but who are known to the Hon. Editor, make the following announcement
to mediums who can produce genuine objective physical phenomena.
" ;^25o will be given to the first medium who, in response to this notice,
gives sittings in the seance room of the Society for Psychical Research,
and can there produce supernormal physical phenomena which the
Society's Research Officer can prove to his satisfaction are genuine. This
offer will remain open until Dec. 31st 1947."
It must be made clear that the Council of the Society for Psychical
Research are not responsible for this offer. While they welcome the
opportunity it gives for investigation, and are willing that the seance room
should be used, and that their Research Officer should act as arbiter of the
genuineness of the phenomena, the decision of the Research Officer must
be regarded as his own personal view. The Society's policy is to express
no corporate opinion, and whatever the outcome of the proposed investi-
gation it must not be taken as committing the Council as to the genuineness
or otherwise of any particular medium or mediums.
///. Maurice Fogel
Several members of the Society have asked me about the stage performer,
Mr Maurice Fogel, who claims remarkable telepathic powers. Articles
have appeared in the press (The Sunday Pictorial, 20 April 1947 ;
Every-
bodys\ 24 May 1947) describing a telepathy experiment which took place
at the West Cliff Theatre, Clacton-on-Sea on 17 April 1947. According
to the newspaper account, the well-known American experimenter Dr J.
B. Rhine was rung up at Duke University by trans-Atlantic telephone. He
was asked to think of one item from a list of forty simple objects that had
been sent to him. Dr Rhine did so, and without knowing his choice, Mr
Fogel drew a picture of the right object, which was a boat.
This was regarded as a great success, and has been written up as an
instance of genuine telepathic communication. As Dr Rhine's name has
been used freely, I think it is only fair that readers of the Journal should
know his true opinion of the matter. In a letter dated 24 May 1947 he
writes : . . <
JUNE-JULY 1947 Implications of Psychical Research -
87
" I suggested the conditions for the transatlantic experiment, but
[Mr Fogel] was very insistent that he wanted to try his own idea. Since
he was going to pay for the telephone message, and since only a few
minutes of my time would be involved, and especially since he insisted
in his letter that there would be no publicity zvhatever, I decided to let him
go ahead. . . .
" Under these conditions the test could mean nothing, and I was not
in any way interested in it. For example, he insisted upon knowing which
of his eighteen drawings (which he had sent to us in advance) the sender
here was looking at, and he refused to tell over the telephone what his
response was.
" The reporters came to see me within an hour of the test ... I naturally
gave them the truth about the situation, and I hope something of this side
of the case came out in the paper over there, if only to keep the good name
of parapsychology from getting mixed up with showmen."
Mr Fogel gave a demonstration of what he claimed was telepathy at the
500th dinner of the Ghost Club. The performance obviously consisted
of well-known conjuring tricks, and not of genuine telepathy. At the
next meeting of the Ghost Club, Mr Harry Price, the Chairman, an-
nounced that he knew Fogel's performance had been pure conjuring.
IMPLICATIONS OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
Four talks on the implications of psychical research were given on the
B.B.C. Third Programme in April and May. The first, a recording of a
previous broadcast by Professor H. H. Price, dealt with the philosophical
implications of telepathy. Taking telepathy as a proved fact. Professor
Price drew attention to a number of questions that fact raises as to the
nature of the human mind and its connection with other minds. The
second talk, by Professor Broad, discussed the philosophical implications
of precognition. Dr Thouless, the third speaker, tackled the relation of
psychical research to scientific psychology, showing the inadequacy of the
present relation and looking forward towards a better understanding of the
findings of psychical research and a time when they will find their place
in a new and more inclusive scientific theory. Finally, Mr Tyrrell, after
summarising some of the conclusions of the previous speakers, drew
attention to the experience of poets and other artists, who seem able to
draw inspiration from the subliminal self beyond the level of normal
consciousness. The texts of these talks have been printed in the Listener.
88 Journal of Society for Psychical Research june-july 1947
BOOK NOTICE
The Personality of Man. By G. N. M. Tyrrell. (Pelican Books, i/-).
This book, by the President of the S.P.R., 1945-47, has just been pub-
Hshed and will be reviewed in the next issue of the Journal. In the mean-
time, we should advise everyone interested in psychical research to obtain
a copy. Mr Tyrrell deals with problems of personality beyond the
conscious threshold and the methods, results and implications of the
work of psychical researchers.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
September, 1947 - Vol. XXXIV—No. 638
CONTENTS
PAGE
Public Lectures - - - - - - - - 89
New Members - 90
Meetings of the Council -------90
Private Meetings - - - - - - - - 91
Cases : Three Apparently Precognitive Dreams - - 91
A Recent Investigation of some unusual " Psychic
Phenomena" by Hereward Carrington - - 93
The Appeal to Physical Mediums ----- 94
Obituary : Dr Max Dessoir ------ 94
Dr C. E. Stuart ------ 95
Correspondence - - - - - - - - 95
Reviews --------98
PUBLIC LECTURES
Four public lectures arranged by the Society for Psychical Research
will be given at Caxton Hall, Westminster, S.W. i., at 8 p.m. on Friday,
19 September ;
Friday, 17 October ;
Friday, 21 November ; and Friday,
12 December, 1947.
1. Psychical Research : Its Meaning and Methods. By W. H. Salter,
President of the Society for Psychical Research.
2. Modern Agnosticism and Human Personality. By H. H. Price,
Wykeham Professor of Logic, University of Oxford.
3. The Experimental Situation in Psychical Research. By S. G. Seal,
D.Sc, of Queen Mary College, University of London.
4. The Phenomenology of Trance Mediumship. By C. D. Broad,
Knightbridge Professor of Moral Philosophy, University of Cambridge.
A Discussion Meeting for dealing with questions arising from these
lectures will be held at 8 p.m. on Friday, 16 January, 1948.
Admission free. Tickets for reserved seats may be obtained in advance
from the Secretary of the Society for Psychical Research, 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C. i.
go Journal of Society for Psychical Research s ept. i
947
•
? •
..' NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 20 Jmie ig/[.y)
Bekassy, Mrs. J., 78A H awley Road, Cove, Farnboro', Hants.
Chalmers, Miss E. B., 24 Quai Ste Barbe, Liege, Belgium. *
Cregan, Mrs T. A., Ladies' Empire Club, 69 Grosvenor Street, London,
W.I.
De Laessoe, Major H. H. A,, Tasburgh House, Upper Tasburgh, Norfolk.
Farlam, J. W., 516 Stretford Road, Manchester, 16.
Gray, L. N., 20 Church Gardens, Ealing, London, W.5.
Scott, Mrs v., 182 Sheen Court, Richmond, Surrey.
{Elected 22 July ig^y) , ,
Alien, Mrs Grant, 29A Palmeira Square, Hove, Sussex.
Allin, R. v.. The Old Farm, Ewhurst, Cranleigh, Surrey.
Arnell, R. A. S., 20. Abingdon Villas, London, W.8.
Eastmond, D., 36 Hogarth Hill, London, N.W.ii.
Rabe, Mrs Olive H., Sunshine Route, Gold Hill, Colorado, U.S.A.
'
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 427th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Monday 30 June 1947, at 3 p.m. The President,
Mr W. H. Salter, in the Chair. There were also present : Miss Bosanquet,
Professor C. D. Broad, Brigadier Firebrace, Mrs Goldney, Mrs Heywood,
Professor H. H. Price, Dr Robertson, Mrs Salter, Dr Soal, Admiral the
Hon. A. C. Strutt, Rev. C. D. Thomas and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also
Dr West, Research Officer, and Miss Horsell, Asst-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed as
correct. Seven new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The 428th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 23 July 1947, at 3 p.m. The President,
Mr W. H. Salter, in the Chair. There were also present : Miss Bosanquet,
Brigadier Firebrace, Mrs Goldney, Mrs Heywood, Lord Charles Hope,
Miss Jephson, Mr Parsons, Dr Robertson, Dr Soal, Admiral the Hon.
A. C. Strutt, Rev. C. D. Thomas, Dr Thouless and Mr Tyrrell ; also Dr
West, Research Officer, and Miss Horsell, Asst-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed as
correct. Five new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
I
SEPT. 1947 Three Apparently Precognitive Dreams 91
MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY
Discussion Meetings were held in the Library on Monday, 16 June and
23 June 1947, at 6.0 p.m., when Dr E. Grahame Howe spoke on " Beyond
Psychology ".
The 195th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on
Thursday, 3 July 1947, when a paper on " Experimental Extra-Sensory
Perception " was read by Mr D. A. H. Parsons.
P. 309 THREE APPARENTLY PRECOGNITIVE DREAMS
The following accounts of three apparently precognitive dreams are con-
tributed by Mrs C, a member of the Society. The first was written on
June 4th, 1947.
" My husband is a doctor and last Friday night or during the early hours
of Saturday morning I had a curious dream. In my dream the night bell
rang urgently several times. Still in my dream I got out of bed and looked
down into the street, where I saw drawn up a large cream ambulance.
Behind it were two cars and two men standing on the pavement, and,
looking up at me, trying apparently to give me a message, was a very sad-
faced woman in white. Presently she shook her head sadly and the whole
scene vanished. I told this story to my husband in the morning and to a
friend in the afternoon. When I returned in the late evening I found that
my husband had been called suddenly to see another doctor's patient, who
had suddenly been taken ill. He came home to 'phone for an ambulance.
Shortly afterwards he was called back to the patient, found her dead, the
ambulance at the door—which as the woman was dead drove off without
her—and her own doctor with his car.
" The night before last I had another dream. This time I saw a man fall
in the street. I was asked by passers-by to help, but I felt a great reluc-
tance. I was asked also to fetch my husband and I felt again a great reluc-
tance to do so. This dream I also told my husband and the same friend
and my daughter of 17. Last night about 1 1 p.m. when I was in bed, nearly
asleep, and my husband was having a bath, I heard footsteps come to the
door and the day bell rang. I thought sleepily, '
Bother them, why do
they come so late '
(my husband very rarely has night calls or callers).
The night bell then rang twice and very reluctantly I got out of bed and
went to the speaking-tube. A man's voice told me that his friend, a man,
had fainted and hurt himself and would my husband come down and stitch
him up. I felt averse to calling my husband but did so, and when I got
into bed I remembered my dream. I have never had these kind of dreams
before and I think it is a year since my husband was called out to an
accident or sudden death. If you think this of interest I can get the signa-
tures of the people to whom I told the dreams before they came true.
" I can only explain my reluctance to answer the bell or call my husband
by the fact that we had both had a very busy dav and were very tired.
" Signed (Mrs C.)."
On 9 June Mrs C. sent the following account of what she classifies as a
dream, which caused her to back the Derby winner, despite the fact that
92 Journal of Society for Psychical Research sept. 1947
the experts and her friends said that it had no hope of winning, as well as
further information about her previous dreams, which had been asked for
by the Research Ofhcer. She wrote :
" 1 took to bed and placed under my pillow last Tuesday night, the 3rd
of June, a list of the probable Derby runners. About 3 a.m. I awoke to
hear the words '
The Turtle '
repeated three times. I put on the light and
looked at the list of horses and when I came to Pearl Diver I felt that was
the horse. I looked at all the names of owners, trainers and jockeys but
found nothing like turtle. I have been abroad and have seen turtles leave
their eggs and dive into the sea and I felt here was a possible connection.
The next morning at breakfast I picked up a magazine which had arrived
with the morning papers, Illustrated by name, and opened it at a page
showing Gordon Richards on '
Tudor Minstrel '
with the caption
'
Favourites do not always win the Derby '. I turned back a page and there
Was a picture, covering both pages, of turtles and their eggs and young.
That decided me and I rang up a firm of bookmakers just to prove my
conviction that I had picked the winner. I was not able to persuade more
than one other person to share this conviction.
" Regarding your questions. I have been a sleepwalker and a dreamer
of vivid dreams since I was small, but I do not recall any dream of a pre-
cognitive character. In fact I have rarely remembered my dreams clearly
on waking, but lately I have been making a determined effort to do so. By
'
these kind of dreams '
I mean dreams which had anything to do with
accidents or illness, although my husband is a doctor. The name of the
patient who died was Smith. ... I am not aware of any notice appearing
in the paper (there was not an inquest) although there may have been. In
any case this could not have appeared until the Tuesday following, as the
death occurred on Saturday night. The man who was hurt was not told of
the dream. He, like the other patient, was unknown to both of us. I may
say, incidentally, that my husband is most sceptical and would be the last
person to agree that I could dream precognitive dreams until he had
evidence which was unshakeable. He even backed another horse because
he thought my conviction that Pearl Diver would win was nonsense. I
have the bookmaker's account dated 4th June, 1947.
" Signed (Mrs. C).
Mrs C's husband sent detailed confirmation of all her statements. The
friend mentioned. Lady M , wrote :
" I confirm the fact that Mrs
C. told me of the three aforementioned dreams before the events
actually took place." Mrs C's daughter wrote :
" I was present on the
morning of the 3rd June when my mother told Lady Mitchelson of her
dream of the previous night in regard to the man falling, and of her reluc-
tance to help or obtain help. I was having breakfast with my mother
when she opened the paper. Illustrated, and heard her exclaim. She told
me of her dream and the connection with the pictures in the paper. This
was Wednesday, 4th June."
In answer to a further enquiry Dr C. stated that he had no knowledge of
any previous precognitive dreams by his wife and that he was certain that
his wife had not previously told him of dreams which had not come true.
SEPT. 1947 Sotne Unusual " Psychic Phenomena " 93
A RECENT INVESTIGATION OF SOME UNUSUAL
" PSYCHIC PHENOMENA "
The following account is written in an informal and chatty manner,
befitting the bizarre nature of the facts to be reported.
Early last year (1946) I received a letter from a Mr G. A. Emberg, of
Vancouver, B.C., telling me of certain psychic experiences of his own,
and asking to be investigated by our American Psychical Institute, of
which I am the Director. Mr Emberg was evidently quite sincere, and
offered to pay his own expenses to and from Hollywood, and give any
number of sittings gratis. He asked only that his living expenses be paid
while here.
Mr Emberg stated that he was able to diminish and increase the amount
of light emitted by an ordinary electric light bulb merely by reason of his
own bodily proximity ; and further that he could cause the bulb to become
filled with beautiful iridescent colours, which varied and floated about,
cloud-like, within it. We could supply our own bulbs, which he did not
want to touch or handle in any way, and supervise the whole experiment.
Two types of bulbs were to be used : a 60-watt and a 150-watt ; his only
stipulation being that all bulbs used should be frosted.
All this seemed fair enough, and the offer was accepted with thanks.
A number of group sittings were accordingly held, averaging on each
occasion about eight observers. The bulbs were new, purchased by us
the preceding day. They were screwed into the socket and unscrewed by
my assistant. Mr Emberg himself did not touch them, but stood at a
distance of about three or four feet, rubbing his hands or holding them
together. The light itself, of course, fully illuminated the room. The
smaller bulb was tried first, then the larger one. The results in both cases
were very similar, though considerably more striking in the case of the
larger bulb.
Mr Emberg stated first of all that he would dim the light. Some of the
observers said that they seemed to note a slight diminution in its brilliance ;
others that they failed to observe any difference. The general impression
was that this was entirely psychological, rather than objective—and later
experiments, where a light-meter was employed, confirmed this. . . . The
sitters were then asked to look directly at the bulb without letting their
gaze wander. We did so and, lo and behold! every one of us did see beautiful,
iridescent colours shifting and moving about within the bulb. These
were for the most part pastel shades—blue, green, pink, mauve, etc. We
described these in turn and found that, while this was the case, we saw
different colours in diff'erent parts of the bulb—our impressions did not
tally! The net result of the sitting was to convince us that the phenomenon
was purely optical, and that no objective colours existed within the bulb
itself. It remained for us to prove this.
Further sittings were therefore held, in conjunction with Mr DeWitt
Miller and several friends of his—experts in colour photography. Twenty-
seven colour photographs were taken, under a variety of conditions, when
colours were being seen in the bulb by several witnesses. All of these
proved entirely negative : no colours witliin the bulb were registered on
94 Journal of Society for Psychical Research sept. 1947
any occasion. The purely optical and subjective nature of the observed
phenomena was therefore proved quite conclusively.
Mr Emberg had contended from the first that these results could only
be obtained in his presence. However, experiments in gazing at the bulb
in his absence produced precisely similar results. They were, evidently,
entirely optical.
Anyone who cares to experiment for himself, with frosted bulbs, can
doubtless obtain the same results. What struck us more than anything
else, as the result of our experiments, was that we were all so " dumb"
that we had never thought of trying this ourselves beforehand, in order to
see what we could observe! We can only plead, by way of excuse, the
novelty of the experiments and the fact that we had not been fully informed
as to the nature of the " phenomena " which we should be called upon to
observe. Any of our members can try the experiment, however, and
doubtless they too will be surprised at the results.
. Hereward Carrington
^ THE APPEAL TO PHYSICAL MEDIUMS
A previous number of the Journal contained a notice of an offer of ^^250
for a genuine demonstration of physical mediumship given under certain
test conditions and suliject to the findings of the Research Officer. This
offer was published in Lig/ii, Prediction and Psychic Truth. Representa-
tives of several societies and institutions which are in touch with mediums
were also notified, and personal approaches were made to twelve prominent
physical m.ediuniG directly. Unfortunately, only one medium, Mr Frank
Allen, accepted the invitation to give a demonstration. The Research
Officer was present at a sitting organised by the Kilburn Society of
Physical Phenomena at Mr E. Davies' house, on 19 May 1947. At this
sitting, during periods of darkness, apports of flowers were obtained.
Mr Allen came to the S.P.R. rooms for a test sitting on 28 May. On this
occasion no apports were obtained. An offer of a further sitting was not
taken up.
This lack of response is disappointing. Now that the infra-red telescope
is available, and crucial tests are possible without discomfort, it is hoped
that members who are in touch with physical mediums will encourage
them to come forward for a demonstration.
: '
OBITUARY
Dr Max Dessoir. We regret to have to record the death, last July, of
Dr Max Dessoir, the distinguished German psychologist. As far back as
1885, when he vvas eighteen years old, Dessoir was experimenting in
Muscle-reading and Thought-transference, and in the same year he
submitted a report on this work to Proceedings (Vol. IV), a supplementary
report being printed in Vol. V. Soon after this he collaborated with
Moll in experiments in hypnotic rapport. His name appears in the list
of Corresponding Mimliers from 1890 onwards. He knew Gurney,
SEPT. 1947 Correspondence 95
Myers and the Sidgwicks well. In 1946 he publislied a book of reminis-
cences, which was reviewed in the Journal for October-November of that
year, and a further work. Das Ich, der Traum, der Tod, has just appeared.
Dr C. E Stuart. We learn with great regret of the death, on March 23
1947, of Dr C. E. Stuart, the well-known American experimenter.
Dr Stuart's interest in psychical research began when he was an under-
graduate at Duke University, and his association with the Department of
Parapsychology there continued until his death.
With his passing, we have lost a careful and original experimenter.
While he used the card techniques to the full, he will be remembered best
for his work with drawings. Dr Stuart believed that E.S.P. faculty was
essentially individualistic and that by using " free material ", in place of
the hit-or-miss card guesses, personal idiosyncrasies of distortion could be
better studied. At the same time, his mathematical turn of mind enabled
him to devise appropriate statistical methods to deal with the material.
CORRESPONDENCE '
To the Editor of the Journal.
Sir,—Mr J. S. Spence's case of apparent retrocognition, reported in the
last issue of the Journal, realises a long hoped-for condition. He had a
camera and used it at the right moment. The result, shown in the upper
photograph in Plate 11, proves that his experience had no physical basis.
While he saw the wall stretching for some distance over grass, brambles
and bracken to the edge of the cliff, the camera took a photograph of the
clitT extending sheer down from his feet to the beach below. This provides
another piece of evidence that sensory hallucinations can be as complete
and perfect as normal sense-perception, even to the extent that one can
push one's way through hallucinatory bracken and brambles without
having any idea that they are not material.
That a subjectively created environment can be complete is shown by
much other evidence. Mrs Curran, of the Patience Worth scripts, described
how she saw the street-scenes of her stories, smelt the smells, and walked
up to the market-stalls, with every sense of being surrounded by reality.
Similarly, Mrs. Willett described a subjective scene in which she said that
the persons she met seemed more real to her than those she knew in ordin-
ary life. In mediumistic trance, the communicator is often represented as
holding up the object which is being talked about so that the control can
see it, obviously creating on the spot a sensory image of the object. And
in the out-of-the-body cases, in which the narrator has nearly died but has
recovered, he usually seems to have been surrounded by a vividly real
environment, which generally behaves in a fluctuating fashion.
Ghosts and apparitions (which sometimes include surroundings) are
evidently due to a similar cause ; but in these new features begin to appear.
The imagery interpenetrates normal sense-perception and the state of the
percipient is very close to normal consciousness. This is also character-
istic of the present case, of the Boscastle guest-house case, of the Moberly-
Jourdain case at Versailles and of some others. Such cases are rare :
96 Journal of Society for Psychical Research sept. 1947
probably nature has seen to it that they should be, otherwise the danger
would be extreme, liven as it was, Mr Spenee nearly lost his life.
It seems that some people tend to class these latter cases separately and
to think that the percipient has been somehow projected into a physical
scene in the past or the future. But when the potential thoroughness of
what we call (for want of a better term) " sensory hallucination " is realised,
it will be seen that there is no need to split up the evidence. The efficient
cause of them all is the psychological machinery which creates hallucina-
tions. The final causes are various and can be normal as well as paranor-
mal. By establishing the astonishing completeness of these sensory
constructs, psychical research has done a most important piece of work.
Were it not that tlie case occurred too long ago for Mr Spence to feel
sure now of remembering the details, one would like to ask him some
further questions. When he was walking on the headland and seeing
retrocognitively, the wall and other details of the scene kept in their right
places in relation to the physical position of his body. But when he seemed
to be entering the cave, and, presumably, when he seemed to be climbing
the cliff-path on Tuesday, where was his body ? It cannot then have been
properly related to what he was seeing, because the tide was up and he
could not have got to the cave, and the cliff-path did not exist.
It would be interesting to know from someone staying at Brixham or the
neighbourhood whether there are any legends about Crabrock Point, where
the incident evidently took place.
Yours faithfully;
G. N. M. Tyrrell
Sir,—The prediction made in my letter in the March Journal, that I
should be suspected of an attempt to lower the standards of the S.P.R.,
has, alas, come true, for in your May number no less than twelve well-
known researchers sign a letter seeking to avert this calamity. But I do not
quite understand their comments on my questions.
My letter was based on two assumptions : that we were studying the
light thrown on the nature of the human being by psychic phenomena,
and that the existence of E.S.P. was accepted by all who had dispassionately
studied the evidence provided by the combination of experimental cases
and spontaneous cases taken as a whole, even if they themselves had had
no personal experience of the faculty. My enquiry, therefore, was whether
the time had come to consider the possibility of a systematic study of the
psychological processes involved, as well as (I fear I too easily assumed
that I should not be credited with suggesting instead of) collecting as much
more corroborated evidence as possible of so elusive a phenomenon.
On these assumptions, for example, the comparison of veridical and
non-veridical hallucinations (if any particular hallucination can be proved
non-veridical) would be instructive : so would such a case as Mr Spence's
geographical hallucination in the June Journal. The remarkable feat of
separating the psychic from the psychological would not be necessary, and
the Society would increase the respect it had gained by its industrious col-
lection of facts, by going on to study their implications.
But, if I understand aright, my commentators' words, " many members
of the Society are convinced that E.S.P. is proved," imply that many
SEPT. 1947 Correspondence 97
others are not so convinced, themselves presumably amongst them. Then
my assumption was mistaken ; I was proposing to run before we can walk ;
we are still seeking for evidence of unproven facts. Yet, if the large
quantity of evidence we have is not good enough, it would seem a Sisyphean
labour to collect more and more of the same kind. Would it be possible
for my commentators to help us break out of this vicious circle, by suggest-
ing exactly how much of what evidence would, in their eyes, eliminate
chance coincidence and our other bogies, and also by listing those cases (if
any) in our records for which they do not consider possible an explanation,
other than chance coincidence, for E.S.P. We could then at least visualise
our goal and estimate what progress (if any) we had made towards it.
May I add a final apology. Assuming E.S.P. to be an established fact in
the eyes of serious students, I had tentatively enquired whether we were
in sight of the point where we could consider the character and intelligence
of the percipient as a factor in estimating the value of a case : whether, for
instance, we might make the same allowance for unconscious exaggeration,
pathological hallucination, faulty memory and hoaxing, were the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury to report that he had seen a ghost in his Cathedral,
as we would for his unsupported statement that he had seen a kangaroo.
This apparently conveyed my willingness to accept as evidence cases
found in " plenty of spiritualist journals ". " Plenty " must, I fear, include
the more popular among them. I hasten to say that such was not my
intention and that I regret having expressed myself so ill.
Yours faithfully,
Rosalind Heywood
Sir,—In the last part of the Proceedings (Vol. XLVIII, pp. 121-163), the
Rev. C. Drayton Thomas outlined a new hypothesis for trance communica-
tion. It is impossible to deal with all the aspects of the problem he
advances, the quality of the evidence and the independent existence of the
direct voice are too complex subjects to be discussed here. It is worth
noting, that the words of the " communicators ", assumed to be the
thoughts of people immersed in philosophical ideas, and distorted in
transmission by the medium, are referred to in the conclusion as facts.
The hypothesis, set out on pages 122-123, is on the most superficial analysis,
divisible into seven major assumptions most of which have little or no clear
evidence to support them. In comparison with these, the additional
hypothesis that the communicators arrive in body and stand 2-3 feet from
the medium is but an added straw to the burden.
It is the description of the 'psychic power', however, that needs clarifica-
tion. My reading of the paper assumes that the term psychic power is used
synonymously with emanation. It is given certain physical characteristics,
viz. :
1. It has a definite limit (p. 127) and fluctuates like wind on a windy
day (p. 128).
2. It is moved by draught (p. 129).
3. It can transmit vibrations to Feda which is more easily done in a dry
atmosphere (p. 129).
4. Vibrations in the emanation set up vibrations in the air, i.e. sound
waves (p. 123).
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research sept. 1947
The emanation is also endowed with some not so definite properties.
5. It charges the atmosphere (p. 127).
6. It is the etheric part of the physical body, the ether separating the
atoms (p. 130).
7. The etheric body lies within the aura, the power lies within both
(p. 130).
The author has written a paper in which he has discussed the relation-
ship between the physical world and the " spirits ". In normal scientific
communion, it is customary to use nouns and adjectives in a defined sense
known to all. Looked at in that light much of the description becomes
valueless, even confusing, e.g.^, 6, 7, above. Such words as " charge " or
" vibrations " mean nothing, I repeat, nothing, unless they are further
qualified.
The Society, rightly or wrongly, is at the moment concentrating its
energies on investigating the border line between the proven and the un-
proven. Any work that clears the rubble from that line is an advance of
knowledge, any article that blurs it with a mist of meaningless words and
phrases is, I submit, out of place in the Proceedings of our Society.
Yours, etc.,
I. P. Williams
REVIEWS
The Personality of Man. G. N. M. Tyrrell. " Pelican " Series. 295 pp.
IS.
Nine years ago Mr Tyrrell laid all psychical researchers under a heavy
debt of gratitude by producing in his Science and Psychical Phenomena
much the best survey of their subject that had appeared for a generation.
He has now repeated his success, with a book on a smaller scale, but for
that reason more likely to reach a public sadly needing enlightenment as to
what psychical research is, and still more, what it is not.
In the intervening years much has happened to make desirable, even
urgently necessary, a restatement of the problem of human personality,
what it is as a whole, and what it might be. On a proper understanding of
this rest all hopes of building a world order, and of avoiding yet more
" wars to end war ". Science and philosophy have both, in Mr Tyrrell's
view, become so specialised as to be unable to grasp the problem as a
whole, and he criticises both for leaving out of account ascertained facts
of the highest relevance. To the sum total of these facts notable additions
have been made during the last decade.
Where are such facts to be found ? Mr Tyrrell deals first with " the
higher reaches of personality " as illustrated by what the poets, musicians
and scientific discoverers have put on record concerning the process of
inspiration, and by the testimony of the mystics of all ages, lands and
creeds. These two chapters should be compared with the final section of
another recent " Pelican ", V. H. Moltram's TJie Physical Basis of Person-
ality, as both books, starting from very different points of view, reach
much the same conclusion as to the validity and significance of mystical
experiences.
SEPT. 1947 Reviews 99
Mr Tyrrell then passes to psychical research proper, beginning with a
brief historical account, followed by a definition of some of the more
important terms. It is hard for a psychical researcher to achieve an equal
understanding of all the manifold branches of his subject, but Mr Tyrrell
shows an admirable impartiality in his treatment of mental and physical,
spontaneous, mediumistic and experimental phenomena, and of qualitative
and quantitative methods of research.
He begins his exposition with some instances of telepathy and fore-
knowledge, and a discussion of their implications. Then follow six
chapters (10-15) °" " Psychical Research in the Laboratory ", in which,
after a brief mention of early experiments, often nowadays unduly
neglected, in telepathy and clairvoyance, the more recent researches of
Rhine, Carrington, Soal and Hettinger are in turn lucidly epitomised. The
chapters on cross-correspondences, Mrs Willett and Control-mediumship,
and those on poltergeists and the physical phenomena of the seance-room,
deal as satisfactorily as the scale of the book permits with matters that call
for detailed treatment.
Admirable as is the atmosphere of philosophic calm in which Mr
Tyrrell sets out one after another the principal branches of psychical re-
search with comment appropriate to each, still more welcome, to the
present reviewer at least, is the raising of the controversial temperature
perceptible in the chapter (26) headed " Attitude to Psychical Research
—
Are Men of Science Impersonal about Facts ?
" In this and in the two
following chapters a rich assortment of professors are pilloried as they
deserve. Not all professors of course, but such as are unable to balance a
proper belief in the order of the universe, by a willingness, without which
such a belief cannot be justified, to accept " brute facts ", including facts
such as telepathy and precognition, " which at first sight appear to be un-
attached and unassimilable." No better illustration could be found of the
curious dilemma into which the neglect of psychical research has landed
many scientists than Mottram's admirable book, already mentioned, in
which all the objective facts cited, those of Mendelism, endocrinology, etc.
point to a materialist and determinist conclusion, in opposition to which
the author bravely arrays the subjective experiences of mysticism, without
any hint that there are other objective facts, those of psychical research,
which suggest that such a head-on collision is quite unnecessary.
The chapter (29) entitled " The Significance of the Whole " is a vindica-
tion of psychical research and its methods with which the reviewer is in
such entire agreement that he would like to quote it in full. It is better
however that members should read it in its proper place towards the end
of a close-knit exposition, factual and commentative, of the whole subject.
In the last chapter, " Psychical Research and Religion," Mr Tyrrell,
after re-stating the difference between psychical research and spiritualism,
deals with the argument put forward by Dr Inge and others that " The
kind of immortality which psychical research endeavours (sic) to establish
would be for him \i.e. the Platonist, with whom Dr Inge evidently sym-
pathises] the negation of the only immortality which he desires or believes
in ". Why, as Mr Tyrrell pertinently asks, " negation," unless Dr Inge
is infected with " the philosophy of natural-supernatural dualism " }
The idea of an in4efinite continuance of finite existence is distasteful to
lOO Journal of Society for Psychical Research sept, i
947
many who appreciate the force of the evidence which psychical research
provides for survival in some form. The conception of telepathy now
prevalent seems to open the door to the idea of progressively de-
personalised survival, and perhaps the gradual " fading out " of good
" communications " from communicators who have been some time dead
—a fact often noted—is a definite piece of evidence, however small, in
support of that idea.
W. H. S.
Challenge of the Unknown. Louis K. Anspacher. Current Books, Inc.
(New York, 1947). 327 pp. 8 3.75.
Dr Anspacher, who is well known in the United States as a lecturer,
studied philosophy at Columbia University under J. H. Hyslop. In this
way he became initiated into psychical research, which has remained for
him a life-long interest. He describes his book as " designed to be a sort
of philosophical discussion of the entire domain of psychics ", adding,
" iVIy aim was not in any sense conclusive. Quite the contrary : my pur-
pose was to be provocative and orientative." He is to be warmly con-
gratulated on his success. The lively informality of his style enables him
to convey to the reader with the minimum of difficulty a large mass of fact
and reasoned argument.
In a book covering so wide a field and with so many merits it may seem
ungracious to point out a few omissions and errors. Dr Anspacher is so
generous in his references to psychical research in this country that it
comes as a surprise to find no mention of the Leonard or Willett pheno-
mena, or of the experiments of Dr Soal. Even more curious is it for an
American book to ignore W. F. Prince, and, I think, all the recent work of
the American S.P.R. As to errors, Henry Sidgwick is twice credited with
the part-authorship of Phantasms of the Living, and is described as of
Oxford. In compensation F. C. S. Schiller is given to Cambridge. Geley
is sometimes called Gelet, and appears in the index under both names.
These and a few other slips will presumably be corrected when the book
goes into a well-deserved second edition.
W. H. S.
Magic and Healing. C. J. S. Thompson. London : Rider, 1947.
In this interesting work, Dr Thompson gives an account of innumerable
magical proceedures which have been used through the ages for curing the
sick. They range from spells and incantations, ceremonial rites and
healing emblems, to the faith cures which can. be witnessed today.
While healing methods are as changeable as fashions in clothes, the
belief that the course of illness is subject to magical influences of one sort
or another is pretty universal. This book is written from the point of view
of one more concerned with the historical developments of the belief, than
in how much factual basis there may be. Few would deny that will-power,
faith, hope and other intangible forces enter into the preservation of health
and the curing of disease, but how these factors operate has yet to be
investigated.
D. J.W.
JOURNAL OF THE v
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
October-November, 1947 Vol. XXXIV, No. 639-640
CONTENTS
PAGE
Notice of Meeting - - - - - - - - loi
Public Lectures - - - - - - - -102
New Members - -- -- -- - 102
Meeting of the Council - - - - - - -103
Prediction of the Date of the End of the War - - - 103
Note on the Reactions of an Audience to a Simple Experi-
ment with Pendulums ------ 107
E.S.P. Tests : A Summary of Results - - - - 109
Cambridge University Psychical Research Group - - 1 1
1
Experimental Investigation by the Cambridge Psychical
Research Group - - - - - - -112
Reviews - - - - - - - - -117
Library Notice - - - - - - - -119
Correspondence - - - - - - - -119
A PRIVATE MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
WILL BE HELD IN
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. i
ON
SATURDAY, 8 NOVEMBER ig4y, at 3 p.m.
WHEN A LECTURE ON
" VICTOR HUGO'S EXPERIENCES IN
.
TABLE-TURNING"
WILL BE GIVEN BY
PROFESSOR D. SAURAT ,
'
,
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
102 Journal of Society for Psychical Research OCT.-NOV. 1947
PUBLIC LECTURES
The Public Lectures arranged by the Society will be given at Caxton
Hall, Caxton Street, Westminster, London, S.W. i.
On Friday, 21 November 1947 at 8 p.m.
The Ninth F. W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture.
" The Experimental Situation in Psvchical Research " by Dr S. G.
Soal.
On Friday, 12 December 1947 at 8 p.m..
" The Phenomenology of Trance Mediumship " by Professor CD.
Broad. ,
A Discussion Meeting for dealing with questions arising from these and
the previous tv/o Public Lectures will be held at 8 p.m. on Friday, 16
January 1948.
Admission free. Tickets for reserved seats may be obtained in advance
from the Secretary, Society for Psvchical Research, 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. I.
"
NEW MEMBERS
Billington, Dr C. M., Haileybury and Imperial Service College, Hertford.
Byrom, J. W., 10 Kingsway, Altrincham, Cheshire.
Carrithers, W. A., Jr., 463 North Second Street, Fresno 2, Calif., U.S.A.
Corns, Mrs A. C, 16 I^iver Way, Christchurch, Hants.
Davies, Mrs G. M., Ty'n y Fron, Dolwyddelan, Caernarvonshire.
Douglas, C. K. M., O.B.E., 32 Coneydale, Welwyn Garden City, Herts.
Ellis, O. C. de C, D.Sc, 16 Heaton Road, Withington, Manchester 20.
Fitzpatrick, M. J., BBC, 32 Great Castle Street, London, W. 1.
Forsyth, D. R. H., M.A., 128 Cleveden Road, Glasgow, W. 2.
Gartland, W. T., B.Sc, 127 Longdon Road, Knowle, nr Birmingham.
Goodden, Professor Windham, Travellers' Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W. I.
Hale, Mrs H. W. K., 3193 Westmount Boulevard, Montreal, Canada.
Hellstrom, Mrs B., Sveavagen 77, Stockholm, Sweden.
Ison, Mrs Walter, 5 Sion Hill Place, Lansdown, Bath.
Kadirgamar, S.J. C, 261 Hultsdorf Street, Colombo, Ceylon.
Librarian, Brown University, Providence 12, Rhode Island, U.S.A.
Melville-Ross, T., Spithurst House, Spithurst, Barcombe, Sussex.
Merriman, Dr Basil M., 14 Chesham Place, London, S.W. i.
Moore, Sir Alan, Bart., Hancox, Whatlington, Battle, Sussex.
Morris, B. S., B.Sc, 19 Springfield Road, London, N.W. 8.
Moss, Mrs N. J., The Old House, Ickwell Green, nr Biggleswade.
Norlev, Erling, LL.B., 72 Ormonde Drive, Muirend, Glasgow, S. 4.
OCT.-NOV. 1947 Prediction of Date of End of the War 103
O'Donnell, E., 8 Oakland Road, Redland, Bristol.
Pelham, Lady Elizabeth, Estate Office, Palmer, Lewes, Sussex.
Pierce, F. H., 464 Morris Avenue, Boonton, N.J., U.S.A.
Shepherd, Rev. W. L., The Vicarage, Holme on Spalding Moor, York.
Sparrow, J., 8 Collingwood Court, Hendon, London, N.W. 4.
Strangways, Hon. John D. F., Melbury, Dorchester, Dorset.
Street, Mrs A. P., 204 Victoria Terrace, Silverdale, Stoke-on-Trent.
Tromp, Dr S. W., Rijnsburgerweg 159, Leiden, Holland. ^
Turner, Miss M. D., 16 Clifton Terrace, Brighton, Sussex.
Wallace, H. O., Cedar Tor, Barnack, Stamford, Lincolnshire.
Wilson, Miss B. B., 2 Carmel Court, Wembley Park, Middx.
Woodcock, Mrs N., 14 Primrose Hill Road, London, N.W. 3.
Student Associate
Salter, H. J., 3 Bethel Drive, Kessingland Beach, Lowestoft, Suffolk.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 429th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square, Lon-
don, W.C. I, on Tuesday 30 September 1947, at 3 p.m. The President,
Mr W. H. Salter, in the Chair. There were also present : Miss T.
Bosanquet, Brigadier R. C. Firebrace, Mrs K. M. Goldney, Mrs F. Hey-
wood. Lord Charles Hope, Miss I. Jephson, Mr D. A. H. Parsons, Dr
A. J. B. Robertson, Dr S. G. Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, Rev.
C. D. Thomas and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also Dr West, Research Officer,
and Miss E. M. Horsell, Asst-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council w^ere read and signed as
correct. Thirty-four new JN'Iembers and one Student-Associate were
elected ; their names and addresses are given above.
A PREDICTION OF THE DATE OF THE END OF THE WAR
[We are indebted to Mr D. H. Rawcliffe, a member of the Society, for
drawing attention to an interesting prediction reported in the Revue Inter-
nationale de Radiesthesie, (No. 4. Deuxieme Trimestre, 1947).
The writer of the report, M. Jean Charloteaux, has published a book on
radiesthesia : the art of divination by pendulums and similar methods.
The account given heiow is a slightly abridged translation of M. Char-
loteaux' report.]
We start our story in February, 1941. Since June, 1940, w e had been in
Bavaria, huddled behind barbed wire in a P.O.W. camp. To celebrate my
birthday, on February i ith, my friends presented me with a Swede turnip.
In return, they suggested that I should predict the date of the end of the
war. Since they refused to accept my protests and excuses, I got going.
104 Journal of Society for Psychical Research OCT.-NOV. 1947
I drew a little sketch which Lemaire, an architect in civil life, transferred
to cardboard in Chinese ink. It was a design of concentric circles. The
two (outer) circles, of greatest diameter, were divided into 31 compart-
ments, numbered i to 31. Between the second and third circles the 12
months of the year were written down. Finally, between the third and
fourth circles were written the years 1940 to 1947.
I started the pendulum gyrating at the centre of the dial. After some
seconds the movements changed to oscillations along the axis 1945-41.
Held above 1941 the pendulum stopped dead ; but over 1945 it moved
vigorously.
" Gentlemen, the war will end in 1945!
"
We found the month by the same process. The oscillation indicated
May-November, the movement gave May. For the day, the choice lay
between the 8th and the 24th. The 8th was finally fixed.
" The war will end on May 8th, 1945."
Everyone shouted. But a wise man, Commandant Mommens, said he
was going to write it down for future verification. I often repeated this
experiment when my friends asked me, especially on occasions when a
military or diplomatic event looked like altering the prediction of the pendu-
lum ; but it never varied. On May 7th 1945, the radio announced that
Germany had surrendered. My friends rushed into my room to congratu-
late me, saying I was only a day out. Next day the radio announced that
the official date fixed for the termination of hostilities was May 8th.
The officers who had taken note of my trials during the years 1941-45,
kindly signed an attestation, giving their names, rank, addresses and the
date on which the prediction was m.ade known to them.
[Note. The report was followed by a list of names and addresses of 27
Belgian officers, with facsimiles of their signatures. They certified that
they had all at various times heard of M. Charloteaux' prediction before
its fulfilment. The Research Officer wrote to 13 of the signatories, select-
ing those stated to have known of the prediction before 1944. Nine replies
^- were received. Translations of these replies are given below.]
1. Captain Egon :
In reply to your letter of Aug. 25, 1947, I wish to state that I signed,
some time in 1943, a declaration testifying that, at that date, Lt. Charlo-
teaux had fixed the date for the end of the war. I was a P.O.W. at Prenzlau
camp, near Berlin. Lt. Charloteaux, an authority on radiesthesia, had the
declaration mentioned in the Revue de Radiesthesie signed by some friends.
I cannot recall the exact date fixed, but it would be embodied in the de-
claration.
M. Charloteaux is the author of a popular book on radiesthesia which I
have read with much interest. I confess that I was exceedingly sceptical
about his statements, but I realise that on this occasion events have served
him so well that he may be forgiven for some failures on other subjects.
2. Captain-Commandant Mommens :
I have pleasure in informing you that Lt. Jean Charloteaux predicted
that the war would end on May 8th, 1945, at a radiesthesia sitting held in
OCT.-NOV. 1947 Prediction of Date of End of the War
1941 at a P.O.W. camp (Oflag VIIb) at Eichstatt in Bavaria. A small
group of radiesthesists, beginners and others, practised the art, and it was
during one of our sittings that Charloteaux foretold the date of the end of
the war. We laughed at him a bit, for we all believed the war would end
sooner. ^
•
- .
t
3. Major Flenry :
I am happy to supply the information asked. I was a P.O.W. in Ger-
many from 1940 to 1945. In 1940 I made acquaintance with Lt Jean
Charloteaux. In the course of our long captivity in the same camps we
became very friendly and I was able to help" him with various pieces of
scientific information which he needed for a book he was preparing. It
was published after his return to Belgium.
In the second half of 1943, on a date I cannot precisely recall, in the course
of conversation at Prenzlau camp, Lt Charloteaux told me he had foretold,
by means of the pendulum, that the war in Europe would end on May 8,
1945. Events confirmed this prediction. Although I cannot remember
the exact date of this conversation, I am absolutely sure it was earlier than
January, 1944. . . , ,
4. Captain Marcel Boque :
In June, 1943, Lt Jean Charloteaux arrived at Oflag IIa Prenzlau,
(where I was) from Oflag Xd. He was questioned, in the room where I
was, about the end of the war. He gave the date, May 8, 1945. I made
a note of it thinking what a laugh I would have at prediction by radies-
thesia if it did not come oft'. To my great astonishment, I had to acknow-
ledge, when the date arrived, that he had hit on the exact day.
5. Captain Raymond Troye :
Iwas walking with Lt Jean Charloteaux in the courtyard of the P.O.W.
camp at Prenzlau in A^ugust, 1943. A comrade came up to us and asked
Charloteaux if it was true that he had foretold that the war would end on
May 8, 1945. He replied that the pendulum had indeed indicated that
date. I scolded Lt Charloteaux for tr^dng to take us all in, but he said he
had made his enquir}^ perfectlj' seriously. I made a note of what he said,
intending to rub in his mistake later on. But when we came to May 8,
1945, I had to bear witness to the accuracy of the prediction when Lt
Charloteaux reminded me of it.
6. Captain J. Lippens :
One day in 1941, while I was walking in the courtyard of P.O.W. camp
VIIb at Eichstatt, I happened to meet Charloteaux. We were both in-
terned there and I had known him for a long time. I chaffed him. " Well,
you wizard," I said, " can you tell me if we shall be much longer in this
camp and if the war will soon be over? " " Oh, yes," he said, " we are
nothing like finished with our exasperating time here, and I can't foresee
an end to the war until 1945—Mav 8, to be exact." I attached no import-
ance to this date and never asked him how he arrived at it. It was only at
the beginning of 1945 that I asked him if he still stuck to that date, and he
said he did. After hostilities were over, he hunted me up to get me to sign
a statement about the date, which I did without hesitation.
io6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research OCT.-NOV. 1947
7. Colonel M. Scoky :
During the winter of 1942-43, as a P.O.W. at Oflag Xd at Fischbeck, I
had Charloteaux as my fellow prisoner in Barrack XI. I knew he was
interested in radiesthesia and we were not backward in teasing him about
his rod and his pendulum. One day, when he and his room-mates were
talking about the end of our captivity, he announced to us that, thanks to
his paraphernalia in which we entirely disbelieved, he could assure us that
the war would end on May 8, 1945. On the day of the German surrender,
May 8, 1945, in the camp at Prenzlau, he reminded me of his prediction,
which had gone out of my mind. I signed a statement attesting the fact
of his prediction.
8. Major Vandermeersch :
1 am very glad to confirm the statement made in the Revue Internationale
de Radiesthesie that Lt Charloteaux, in 1943 or 1944, foretold that hostilities
would end on May 8, 1945.
The length of time which has passed and the small amount of importance
I attached to Charloteaux' numerous affirmations, as to which I was very
sceptical, make it impossible for me to give you details of the circumstances
in which he made his prediction. Lt Charloteaux was billeted in the room
of which I was head, so he was one of my daily associates and I paid no
more attention to his remarks than to those of the other men in the room.
It was only on May 8, 1945, when the happy news of the end of the war
came, that I recalled that Charloteaux had given us that date in advance
and felt that I owed it to him to testify to this fact.
9. Commandant Dungelhoeff :
I have known Lt Charloteaux many years during my captivity in Ger-
many. He used to make experiments in radiesthesia and to teach his
fellow-prisoners the principles and methods. I assisted at—or heard of
—
a lot of experiments that resulted in failures, but some of them were really
successful. Although I don't believe very much in the power of radies-
thesia to detect more than is actually in existence, and especially to predict
the future, I must admit that some months—let us say two or three, or
perhaps four—before the end of the war, some fellow-prisoners were
chattering about a roll-call and teasing Lt Charloteaux in a friendly manner
about his so-called prophecies. Lt Charloteaux answered that in spite of
all that people might say, the war would be ended about the 7th or 8th of
May. When Germany actually capitulated on that date, Lt Charloteaux
reminded me of that conversation and asked me to be a witness, which I
had no reason to refuse.
[There appears to be no doubt that M. Charloteaux made a precise and
accurate prediction of the date of the end of the war several years before it
took place. Of the nine witnesses who replied to the Research Officer's
enquiry, two testify to having heard of the prediction in 1941, two in 1942,
four in "1943 and one in 1944. The odds against a chance fulfilment would
be in the order of 1000 to i, or more. A great many predictions about the
end of the war, made by mediums and others, were not borne out by events.
OCT.-NOV. 1947 Reactions of Audience to Experiment with Pendulums 107
M. Charloteaux does not appear to be an infallible diviner ; several of the
witnesses mention that many of his efforts were unsuccessful. But this
case, in which the actual day was repeatedly specified, stands out as re-
markable.]
A NOTE ON THE REACTIONS OF AN AUDIENCE TO A
SIMPLE EXPERIMENT WITH PENDULUMS
Eric Cuddon '
~
At the conclusion of a lecture on Hypnotism at The International Institute
for Experimental Metaphysics at Walton House, Walton Street, on Thurs-
day, July loth, 1947, I demonstrated the following simple experiment with
pendulums in order to show the audience how very easily they could be
deceived in ascribing to psychic or paranormal causes that which had in
fact a very simple and perfectly normal explanation.
Three clear glass orange squash bottles were displayed upon a large and
firm table which was provided in the centre with a ground glass inset about
a foot square beneath which was an electric light. The bottles which were
placed upon this inset were therefore fully illuminated from underneath.
In each bottle, suspended from a hook in the cork, was a length of black
cotton with a further hook attached to the end to form a pendulum. The
length of each pendulum was different. The bottles were labelled " A "
" B " and " C " by means of marked envelopes stuck to the tops of the
corks.
With very little practice it is possible, not only to set any particular pen-
dulum in motion, but also to control the nature and direction of its move-
ments, by means of deliberate pushing with the fingers which rest lightly
upon the table. This can be achieved without any visible motion of the
fingers being discernible.
If the table used is light and not very firm the pendulums can be set in
motion by the unconscious impulses given to the fingers by sitters who
concentrate their attention and desire to move any particular pendulum.
The fact that the pendulums are of different length, and hence of different
periodicity, is the reason why only one pendulum will be set in motion at a
time ; the impulses which are correct for building up the movement of one
pendulum are incorrect i.e. out of phase with each of the others.
By previous arrangement Dr West and Mr Douglas Craggs had been
briefed to offer themselves as sitters when a request was made for volun-
teers and both had practised the art of intentional control of the pendulums
by indiscernible pushing or pressure of the fingers upon the surface of the
table.
The audience was told that they were about to witness an experiment
which they might well think was an improvement upon a Planchette. It
was suggested that the bottles could be taken to represent my Spirit
Guides as follows: " A " = Amenhotep my Egyptian Guide; "B" =
Babs, a little girl Guide, and " C " = Ching, my Chinese Guide, though I
sometimes called him " I Can Li " as his answers were often unreliable and
in opposition to the answers of Amenhotep.
io8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research OCT.-NOV. 1947
The difference in the lengths of the pendulums was explained by the fact
that of course each Guide operated upon a different wave length. Volun-
teer sitters were then called for and four offered their services i.e. two apart
from my Stooges. As each came up to the table I asked their names and
announced them to the audience. The object of this was to suggest to the
audience that I did not know any of them, otherwise why should it be
necessary for me to ask their names. At first I sat in the centre with two
sitters upon each side and later left them on their own whilst I pretended to
concentrate from several feet away upon the particular Spirit Guide, i.e.
pendulum, which it was desired to operate. Upon each occasion the re-
quisite pendulum functioned as desired. I then requested someone to ask
a question of the pendulums. The question was " Is this done by Spirits.'"
An oscillation would mean Yes ancl a gyration would mean No. Amen-
hotep answered " Yes " but " I Can Li " said " No."
In view of this conflict I told the audience it was up to them to decide
and put to them the following questions and asked them to vote. The
result was as under :
Did the pendulums only appear to move because I hypnotised you into
thinking they did.? Votes : o.
Was their movement due to paranormal i.e. psychic means? Votes : 14.
Was this due to power of sitters apart from me? Votes : 6.
Was this due to power of sitters plus my psychic help? Votes : 8.
Was it due to normal means? Votes :
5.
By involuntary pushing? Votes :
3.
Was it due to intentional deceitful pushing by me alone? Votes : i.
Was it due to intentional deceitful pushing by me plus accomplices among
the sitters? Votes : 2.
It should be noted that the last three votes were those of Mrs. Goldney
and two of mv friends from the Magic Circle, all of whom were in the know,
so that in fact not a single person in the audience as such was prepared to
vote that it was due to intentional pushing.
It is a remarkable fact that even after I had explained the whole modus
operandi in the simplest manner there were still two people in the audience,
one a woman doctor and the other an apparently intelligent man, who in-
sisted that the pendulums could be moved by the power of thought alone
without physical contact with the table and were most anxious to attempt
to do so, although I pointed out that I was personally not prepared to
waste my time in any such fruitless endeavour and that although I had a
very good opinion of myself and my brain power I was not quite so con-
ceited as to anticipate success from such an experiment!
It is really astonishing to what lengths a desire for something " psychic
"
will lead otherwise normal people, and I am beginning to think we should
found a " Society for the Investigation of Psychic Seekers."
OCT. -NOV. 1947 E.S.P. Tests: A Summary of Results 109
E.S.P. TESTS : A SUMMARY OF RESULTS
D. J. West
Experimenters in this field are often criticised for unfair selection of results.
In order to forestall this allegation I am reporting here all the hitherto un-
published tests carried out since Maj' i944) when I first began to keep full
records of all trials performed under test conditions.^
Results being: negative, the conditions are not described in detail ; but
it is advisable to have at least a summary of the scores. It is only by record-
ing all results, both negative and positive, that we will ever be able to de-
termine the true frequency of E.S.P. performance. It must be noted,
however, that the percipients tested in these experiments were most of
them specially selected for their reputations as successful telepathic sub-
jects. The agents, on the other hand, although very varied, were not
specially selected.
'
Zener Card Trials
Score
Per-
No. Retro-
Target Precog.
Dates of cog.
Description 01
cipient trials
Dis- Score Dis- Conditions
N ment place-
- I
0 + I 1
I & S.4.47 tA.B. 350 65 70 77 WD H25/2S T
I3-5-47 *0.R. 25 5 3 8 V V -i -y ± Lt^ ^ j ^ T
24-4-47 Misc. 150 33 27 36 W D H 25/25 TAss.
28.4.47 A.C.S. 25 4 4 7 VV D H 25/25 T Ass.
29.8.47 M.J. 50 5 1 12 WDH25/2=; T
10.8.46 *R.A.C. 250 48 51 47 WSR T
19.9.46 R.B. 500 98 97 102 WSR T
26.8 to 5.9.47 fA.V.S. 1047 194 207 202 WSH25/25 T
23.8 to 20.9.46 *R.A.C. 1750 319 338 329 USR T
1 9. 1 1 to 1 1. 1 2. 44 *Mi-s S. 1000 186 205 199 U S H25/—100 T
21. II to 25.12.44 *Mrs S. 300 57 56 59 U S H25/—100 TAss.
3. II to 13.12.44 D.H.H. 100 17 18 17 USH25/^ioo TAss.
3. II to 13.12.44 tD.J.W. 100 16 28 18 U S H25/^ioo T Ass.
26.8.47 M.J. 75 17 15 19 W Inf. H25/25 T
26.1 1.46 & 1 1.3.47 A.Z.B. 350 56 62 66 WInf. H25/100 T
19. II. 46 A.Z.B. 300 51 65 63 W Inf. H25/25 T
II-3-47 *J.\V.T. 50 5 9 1 W Inf. H25' 100 T
12. 1 1.46 & 19. 1 1.46 *J.W.T. 350 70 56 56 W Inf. H2S/25 T
1 2. 1 1.46 & 1 9. 1 1.46 *Miss M 250 49 48 50 WInf. H25/25 T
17.12.46 *W.A.W. 200 32 42 38 WInf. H25/25 T
II-3-47 J.F.N. 50 1 8 8 W Inf. H25/100 T
2S-3-47 tA.B. 25 S 5 4 W Inf. H25/100 T
Totals 7297 1343 1425 1428
E,xpectation 1 40 1459 1401
Deviation -58 -34 ^27
Standard Deviation 33-5 34-2 33-5
^ The only tests omitted from this summary are some trials (still in progress) with
subjects under hypnosis, which are being reserved for a separate report.
no Journal of Society for Psychical Research oct.-nov. 1947
Guessing the Colours of Playing Cards
Percipient, D.H.H.
No. of trials = 800.
Date Expected Score Observed Score Conditions
25.5.44 50 48 U S T
26.5.44 50 57 U S H ioo/=^20oo PC
27.5.44 50 58 U S R T
27.5.44 50' 55 U S H 100/=^ 2000 PC
30-5-44 50 50 U S R T
30-S-44 50 43 U S H 100/^2000 PC
10.7.44 - 50 50 U S R T
10.7.44 50 51 U S H 100/^ 2000 PC
Total 400 412
Trials with Parson's Counter Machine. Guessing Five
Different Colours
No. of trials = 20CO.
Date Percipient Expt. Score Obs. Score Conditions
5-I-45 tD.J.W. 200 211 U S H 100/100 PC
8.1.45 tDJ-W. 100 99 U S H 100/ 100 PC
19 to 20.7.47 *R.A.C. 80 71 W S H 100/100 T
1.4.47 fA.B. 20 20 W S H 100/100 T
Total 400 401
Experiments with other Material
Date Per-
cipient
Material used Conditions Method of Scoring Score
N
Expt.
N
23.11.44 *Mrs S. 10 Illustrations U. D. T. Independent judge
to 5-I-45 from PuncJi picks out target from 13/50 10/50
four controls on basis
of percipient's
description
" Blind " matching
of guesses against
drawings by two
2/20
I7-7-47 fMrs M 10 Drawings of
simple objects
in envelopes
W.S.C. 3/20
judges
24.4.47 Misc. Three given
emotions
W D RT As card trials 4/12 4/12
28.4.47 C.S. Five emotions U Inf. RT As card trials 4/25 5/25
28.4.47 A.M.W. Five emotions U Inf. RT As card trials 3/25 5/25
I •4-47 fA.B. Ten drawings W.D.R.T. Inspection nil nil
OCT.-NOV. 1947 Cambridge Univ. Psychical Research Group III
Key to Lettering used in the Tables of Results
Subject gives a history of psychic powers.
Subject gives a history of previous successes in guessing ex-
periments.
One or more independent witnesses present apart from
agent and percipient.
No one present apart from agent and percipient.
Agent and percipient in separate rooms.
Agent and/or targets well screened out of view of percipient.
Screening not always perfect. Informal conditions. D. J. West
not always present.
Targets selected by hand shuffling of a pack of 25 Zener cards.
Targets selected by cutting a deck of 25 from a large pack of
100 Zener cards, hand shuffled.
Targets selected according to a prepared list of random numbers.
Telepathy conditions. Agent looks at target while percipient
registers his guess.
Association trials. Agent and percipient both looking at same
design or picture on the assumption that an " R object ", or
common association, is likely to induce telepathic rapport.
Pure clairvoyance. Nobody knows what the target is, and score
known only in total and not as individual trials.
Clairvoyance. No one looks at targets, but trials checked
individually. • -
.
(•
.
. . \ -
THE CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
GROUP
The Cambridge University Psychical Research Group was founded at the
beginning of the Michaelmas term 1946. It was decided to charge no
subscription and have no definite membership scheme, but after the first
meeting more than 80 undergraduates declared themselves willing to take
part in experiments. A committee of five undergraduates (C. S. O.'D
Scott, A. M. Western, J. D. Proctor, J. Painter, and G. Bielstein) was
formed to plan and direct experiments and control the affairs of the Group.
In the Lent term 1947 Professor Broad was so good as to accept the Presi-
dency of the Group.
During the academic year 1946-47 a large amount of experimental work
was done. Lack of space forbids more than a brief summary of this pro-
gramme.
I . A large experiment under general (undifferentiated) E.S.P. conditions
in which 54 people contributed 16,650 guesses. A group of agents were all
simultaneously presented with a number target and a group of percipients
were asked to record their guesses. The experiment was aimed primarily
at finding a percipient. Taken as a whole the results were negative, and it
is probable that if there are any interesting effects in the results they will
only be revealed by an elaborate analysis.
t
W
u
D
S
Inf.
H25/25 =
H25/100
R
T
Ass.
PC
C
112 Journal of Society for Psychical Research OCT.-NOV. 1947
2. A fairly extensive series of experiments on the PK effect. No sig-
nificant results were obtained with anv of a variety of techniques.
3. An experiment in pure clairvoyance, using coloured counters. In the
hope of encouraging phenomena it was decided to begin with lax conditions.
One percipient gave very striking results, and the controls were immediately
tightened. His performance then dropped, though remaining just
significant (p=:2:-o5), but soon afterwards the experiment had to be stopped
owing to the reluctance of the percipient to continue the work.
4. An experiment suggested by Dr Thouless and reported in detail
below, which, although it failed in its object, did include one significant
result.
5. An experiment aimed at discovering any comparative effects of
different working conditions on performance in E.S.P. Neither overall
evidence for E.S.P. nor differential effects were observed—though the
number of guesses obtained was perhaps too small to give an opportunity
for any paranormal effect to show itself.
6. Two experiments in which encouraging results were obtained and
which are to be continued in the coming year. These experiments will be
reported when complete.
7. Some experiments on hypnosis which, though interesting to the
psychologist, were not successful in raising performance in E.S.P.
8. A number of isolated experiments with negative results which are
either too short or too trivial to be worth describing. The Group also held
itself in readiness to investigate any reports of local and contemporary
spontaneous phenomena, but none was received.
All experiments and activities of the Group are fully recorded.
A total of four significant results was therefore obtained in some eight
experiments, which is a most encouraging conclusion to the year's work.
During the year the Group had the good fortune to hear talks from three
members of the S.P.R. Council : Dr Thouless, a general introductory talk ;
Dr Robertson on " Is Psychical Research a Branch of Physics? "
; Mr
Tyrrell on " The Object of Psychical Research."
The Committee would like to express their thanks to all those who have
offered us their services, in particular to Prof. Broad, Dr Thouless, Dr
Dingvv'all and Dr West for their help and advice, and especially to Dr
Dingwall, without whose generous financial aid the Group could have
neither begun nor continued to exist.
C. S. O'D. Scott
EXPERIMENTAL INVESTIGATION BY THE CAMBRIDGE
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH GROUP
Report by Dr R. H. Thouless
The experimental investigation here reported on was carried out by mem-
bers of the Cambridge Psychical Research Group during the winter of
1946-47. The plan of the experiment was suggested by myself but the ex-
periment itself was organised by Mr C. S. O'D. Scott and Mr A. M. Wes-
tern. The somewhat arduous series of experimental sittings was carried
out by Mr Dodd, Miss Salter, Mr Beale, Mr Ventura, Mr Painter, Mr
Nelder, Mr Macmanus, Mr Smith, Mr Greenhalgh and Miss Braithwaite.
OCT.-NOV. 1947 Cambridge Psychical Research Group 113
The problem with which it was concerned was that of the relation of
ability as percipient to ability as agent in extra-sensory perception. V/e
have abundant evidence that different individuals differ in their capacity
to succeed as percipients in experiments on psi cognition ; we are relatively
uncertain to what extent success in such experiments depends on the agent.
The present experiment was designed to discover the relative importance
of the individual peculiarities of percipient and agent in determining
success in experiments on psi cognition, and to enquire whether there was
any correlation between ability as percipient and ability as agent. Al-
though the results of the experiment were wholly negative, this was not due
to any defect in design or carrying out of the experiment but to the un-
fortunate fact that (with one possible exception) none of the participants
showed measurable psi cognitive success. It seems, therefore, worth while
to publish the method of the enquiry in the hope that it may be carried out
in future by someone who has at his disposal a sufficient number of subjects
who can obtain consistently better than chance results in such experiments.
There were ten subjects of the experiments, each of whom did six runs
of guesses through a pack of cards with each of the other nine subjects.
For three of these runs he was acting as agent while the other subject was
percipient, while in the remaining three runs their roles were reversed.
The cards used were packs of ordinary playing cards from which the twelve
court cards had been removed. A guess was counted as a success only if it
was completely right (in suit and number). Thus each percipient made
120 guesses with each agent with a mean chance expectation of three right,
and every subject of the experiment acted as both agent and percipient
with every other subject, making a total number of 1,080 guesses as per-
cipient and acting as agent for an equal number.
The number of successes obtained in each of these ninety sittings is
shown in the following table.
The agent and percipient sat in the same room but back to back so that
the percipient could not be guided by visual clues. An observer sat facing
the agent across a table. The percipients were not informed as to their
success or failure until the whole series of sittings had been completed.
Agents
D Sa Be
Percipients "
V P N M Sm G
i
Br
Totals
D 4 2 3 4 2 3
->
4 4 29
Sa 3 2 6 5 5 4 5 5 3«
Be 2 0 6 5 5 I
4 2
V 0 0 5 3 5 4 4 I
4 26
P 5 5 2 8 6 2 3 J /
N 4
-)
2 3 0 4 2 I
3 22
M 4 6 2 3 2 0 2 0 25
Sm 2 4 5 4 4 3 4 2 I 29
G I 2 4 3 4
-->
4 2 2 25
Br I 2 2 5 4 4 2 4 3 27
Totals 20 ?6 29 26 34 32 39 26 24 27 283
114 Journal of Society for Psychical Research oct.-nov. 1947
Figures were also obtained for the numbers of hits on the cards one be-
fore and one after the target card but, since these also were not significant,
they are not included in the above table.
The mean chance expectations for totals both in columns and rows is 27,
while that for the grand total is 270. The observed deviation of + 1 3 in the
grand total is quite insignificant (C.R. = -8, P = '4). Nor does there seem
to be any indication that this insignificance of total deviation is the result
of a small number of successful subjects having their scores swamped by a
larger number of unsuccessful ones. It is true that Macmanus as percipient
scores twelve more than mean chance expectation which as a separate score
would be significant, but the odds are no more than about two to one against
a score of this size occurring once amongst twenty scores. And although
two other scores of comparable size are found amongst the agents, this is
insuflicient for significance.
The only real evidence for the results being not wholly chance determined
is from one run through a pack of forty cards with Macmanus as percipient
and Painter as agent in which the score was seven whereas mean chance
expectation is one. If treated as a single observation the odds against this
occurring by chance would be enormous (P = -000055). is, however, the
selected best of 270 runs, and the likelihood of such a value occurring by
chance at least once in 270 trials is about -015 [i.e. about 65 to i against).
Since neither the grand total nor the separate totals of agents or per-
cipients deviate appreciably from what we should expect by chance, it is
extremely unlikely that we should find evidence of the effects we are looking
for. In the hope, however, that this experiment may be repeated some time
with more positive material, I will go through the further steps of the en-
quiry.
I. Proof that agents differ amongst themselves in psi capacity would be
provided by the observed variance between the agents' totals being signifi-
cantly greater than that to be expected on the hypothesis that there are only
random differences between the totals of agents. It does not seem quite
correct to do this by the ordinary method of analysis of variance since the
table differs from that of the usual form in the fact that there is no principal
, diagonal (since there is no experiment in which the subjects act both as
agent and percipient). Nor does it seem satisfactory to calculate the
theoretical variance from the formula Npq where p = i/40 and q = 39/40,
since this will underestimate the expected variance between agents if sub-
jects are scoring positively. If, however, p is taken as the observed pro-
portion of successes and q as the observed proportion of failures, this for-
mula can correctly be used to estimate the expected variance between
agents. In the present case p is 283/10800 (
= -026) and q is 105 17/ 10800
( = •974). N (the total number of guesses per agent) is 1080. The ex-
pected variance between agents' totals is, therefore, 1080 x -026 x -974 =
The observed variance is the sum of the squares of the deviations of each
agent's total from the mean of 28-3, divided by the number of degrees of
freedom which is 9 {i.e. one less than the number of agents). The sum of
the squares of deviations from the mean is ('7)^ + (97)" + etc., which comes
to 250. The observed variance between agents is, therefore 250/9 = 27.8,
which is remarkably near to the theoretical value, showing that this set of
OCT.-NOV. 1947 Cambridge Psychical Research Group 115
experiments gives no evidence of agents differing amongst themselves in
the scores obtained by them.
2. The problem of the reality of differences between percipients is the
same. The expected variance is the same as in the case of agents (27-4).
The observed variance between percipients is 29-6. Although somewhat
larger than in the last case, the difference falls far short of significance
since (by Fisher's tables of variance ratios) the observed variance would
have to be about twice the expected variance for the diiference to be sig-
nificant. These results, therefore, also provide no evidence of a real differ-
ence between percipients.
3. If it had been found that there was a real difference between agents
and between percipients, the next question would be whether these
differences were correlated, i.e. whether a good percipient tended also to
be a good agent. Here the product-moment correlation is - -08, which
is (as might be expected) wholly insignificant.
I should like to end by expressing appreciation of the amount of hard
work on the part of organisers and experimenters which went into these
experiments, and my regret that this hard work has borne so little fruit.
That is liable to happen in experimental work in psychical research. We
must hope that the time will soon come w"hen we can improve methods of
experimenting (by the use of drugs or other means) so that we can get posi-
tive results whenever we like. Then we shall have overcome the principal
difficulty in experimental advance in psychical research.
R. H. Thouless
EXPERIMENTERS' REPORT ON CONDITIONS OF THE
INVESTIGATION
The forty-five separate sittings involved in the experiment all took place
during the Lent Term 1947. The problem of organising such a large
amount of work during a term largely occupied by academic activities was
not easy, and it was decided that the experimenters themselves could not
be present at more than a small proportion of the sittings. Accordingly a
sheet of detailed instructions was issued and the subjects were asked to
arrange the sittings amongst themselves. These instructions were designed
to secure constancy of conditions and to safeguard against faulty recording
and conscious or unconscious fraud in so far as limited and always variable
facilities permitted. At least one observer was present at every sitting and
twenty-eight people took part as observers in the whole series of sittings.
The instruction sheet is given at the end of this report.
It was felt, nevertheless, that even if the results had been significant the
nature of the conditions themselves and the doubtful efficacy of written
instructions to secure their own fulfilment made the experiment inadequate
to provide, in itself, conclusive evidence of paranormality. If positive re-
sults had been obtained, therefore, a further test would have been carried
out with some of the more successful pairs of subjects under the most
stringent conditions to eliminate all possibility of spurious success. If
ii6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research oct.-nov. 1947
success had continued, it would have been argued that with subjects who
have demonstrated genuine powers there is Uttle reason for taking a highly
suspicious and sceptical attitude towards evidence concerning the laws of
operation of these powers. However improbable E.S.P. may be it is
scarcely reasonable to take the attitude that, given E.S.P., any characteristic
that it may be claimed to have is highly improbable. Sceptical criticism
would be directed against the properly controlled tests, not against the
main series of sittings. If the controlled tests had failed to give positive
results the validity of the main series would have been a matter of opinion ;
but the experimenters feel bound to state that in that event they personally
would not feel entirely convinced of the vaUdity of any evidence of para-
normality derived from the main series alone.
Details of exact experimental conditions for each sitting and procedure
to eliminate miscounting etc., were recorded but are not included in this
report, as the conclusions of the experiment are almost entirely negative.
It is known that in at least three sittings the conditions were not exactly in
accordance with the instructions. It should perhaps be mentioned that
one of these three included the single run between Painter and Macmanus
in which the only evidence in the whole series for anything but chance de-
termined was obtained. During this run the agent and percipient were
facing one another instead of being back to back, and the percipient was
blindfold.
The experimenters would like to express their thanks and those of the
Group to Dr Thouless for his help and advice and for the above report on
the purpose, method, and conclusions of the experiment.
.
^ C. S. O'D. Scott
. A. M. Western
.
I
Specimen Instruction Sheet
P.—Percipient. A.—Agent. O.—Observer. (An observer must be
present throughout).
At least one pack of cards, less picture cards, is needed.
Procedure.
P and A are back to back as far apart as possible in the same room.
O sits facing A across a table. Care about mirrors, pictures, etc.
A thoroughly shuffles the pack, puts it on the table, and looks at the cards
one by one for P to guess, letting O see only the backs of the cards. The
cards are not recorded at the time but placed on the pile for future recording.
O records P's guesses as he calls them out, does not look at cards being
guessed (except at their backs), but keeps an eye an A.
A must not speak, but should take the greatest care not to convey any
information by slight movements, sounds, etc.
The only signal for the next card to be " sent " is P's statement of his
guess.
Every card must be guessed and recorded in full {e.g. 4C).
No trial guesses may be made at the beginning.
At the end of a run of forty cards {i.e. the pack) A records cards from pile
in column beside guesses. O watches to see no mistakes.
OCT.-NOV. 1947 Reviews 117
As the essence of the experiment is constant conditions for all experi-
ments, P must not be told his scoring until all nine of his experiments are
completed.
For the next run the cards (better another pack) are thoroughly shuffled
by A, without the others being able to see, and then used.
For each person, three runs through the pack as P, and three as A, con-
stitute an experiment.
Three runs are recorded on each sheet. Time and date should be noted
on each sheet.
Every sheet must be signed by A, O, and P, specifying which is which,
to certify that these conditions have been fulfilled. If there is any deviation
from the conditions it should be noted on the sheet before signing.
The sheets should be handed in as soon as possible after the experiment
either to D, King's Hostel, or to G.io, St. Mi.'s Ct., Caius.
The observer is requested to fulfil his functions with the greatest care as it
is very easy to miss some important point.
Cambridge University Psychical Research Group.
REVIEWS
They Survive. Compiled by Miss E. B. Gibbes from the scripts of ^^liss
Geraldine Cummins. Rider, London, 1946. 12s. 6d.
This book is a record of twelve cases of apparent communications from
deceased persons recorded by Miss Cummins, mainly by " automatic
"
writing. Each case has a feature which distinguishes it from the usual type
of spirit communications ; in most of them the communicator was com-
pletely unknown to the medium and in several of them to the sitter also,
ytt man}'' correct facts were recorded.
They include the well-known Pearl Tie Pin case, already published in
Sir William Barrett's book On the Threshold of the Unseen and Mrs Hester
Dowden's Voices from the Void. Miss Cummins was only the sitter and
Mrs Dowden used the Ouija Board. Given the facts, it would be interest-
ing if some of our members would suggest a normal explanation of this case.
Several of the other cases approach, if they do not reach this standard.
Those of Bob F., Flenry Boyce and Captain J. M. are of special interest
from this angle, though from the point of view of a scientific society, there
is insufficient corroboration of the facts and the possibility of selection,
conscious or unconscious, from the original records. Few readers, hov/ever,
will not be prepared to accept the good faith of Miss Cummins and Miss
Gibbes.
Apart from this, the interest of the book lies in the high standard of
accuracy in Miss Cummins' work in such a number of cases, the evidence
of continuing personality in those of T. M., Elizabeth B., and the Ross
sisters, and a picture of the next stage of life very difficult for those with
preconceived notions of " heaven " to accept.
Two features deserve special notice. In the case of Elizabeth B., a
rather backward child purporting to send a message to her mother, the first
communication was in rather stilted language and seemed to her mother
ii8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research oct.-nov. 1947
not to be at all in character. Later on the wording became quite natural
and typical of the child who said (p. 61) " I have been helped by someone
here to speak. The first time he called me he did the speaking for me be-
cause I did not know how to write. So I expect you were a bit puzzled by
what was said. He tried to say for me what I wanted to say but of course
he talked his own way. Now I know what to do." This of course referred
to Astor, Miss Cummins' " guide " and is evidence in favour of a separate
personality.
In another case (T. M.) the communicator explained the possible causes
of error thus : "I see the words coming on a glass as I think the thought
they embody. But now and then wrong words get in and the thought is not
always completed just exactly as I think it." This indicates that telepathy
is the modus operandi in this case, as explained by Myers (The Dorr Case,
Proc. 191 1
) where he says it is the normal method and consists of the ex-
citation of existing ideas in the medium's mind.
This is not a book that would convince or even perhaps influence a com-
plete sceptic. Indeed nothing but personal experience ever will. But any
person with a scientific mind and no strong prejudice and a little knowledge
of the subject will find it well worth study. There cannot be too many
books of this type and very few are so well presented as this. Miss Gibbes
is well aware of the many pitfalls in her path and the need for accurate
recording, as well as of the criticisms to which evidence of this kind is ex-
posed. She answers as many as she can in advance but in a well balanced
manner and without bias.
B. A. C.
Problerns in Abnormal Behaviour. Nathaniel Thornton. Pp. 238.
Philadelphia, 1946.
This book does not deal with supernormal phenomena, but it is of
interest to all who need to know something of the complexities of human
personality. Many aspects of abnormal psychology are touched upon,
including such diverse topics as neurosis, the interpretation of dreams,
insanity, psycho-analysis, psychological types, hypnotism, narco-analysis,
derangements of the sexual impulse and epilepsy. To do justice to any one
of these subjects would have required several volumes. The present book
is in the nature of a series of fleeting sketches rather than careful expositions.
It might have been better if the range had been more restricted and the
treatment more detailed.
Notwithstanding this limitation, it is a useful work, and it will serve as an
introduction to the many-sided problems of human mentality. The value
of the book is increased by the author's healthy habit of defining terms, as
well as his objective attitude to the divergent theories which complicate the
subject matter. In discussing the genesis of mental abnormality, equal
prominence is given to environmental factors (which determine the form
of a neurosis) and to hereditary and constitutional factors (which determine
the incidence of insanities and sexual aberrations).
In the section of the book dealing with sex, it is interesting to note how
many well-known psychical researchers {e.g. Dessoir, Moll, Schrenck-
Notzing) have been experts in this subject also.
^ D. J. W.
OCT.-NOV. 1947 Correspondence 119
The Journal of Parapsychology. Vol. XI, no. 2, June 1947.
This number of The Journal opens with an obituary notice, by the Editor,
of Dr C. E. Stuart whose death this year was a sad loss to American Psychi-
cal Research.
J. M. Bevan compared a group of twelve subjects doing E.S.P. experi-
ments in light and in darkness. They scored above mean chance expecta-
tion in light and below in darkness with a significant difference between the
scores in the two conditions.
J.- G. Pratt has made a further analysis of position effects in the record
sheets of P.K. experiments. The usual terminal salience effects are found
with both high and low aim. Since success was found to an appreciable
extent only at the beginning and end of columns, it seemed that a large part
of the test was contributing little or nothing to the final total, and that it
might be w'orth while to design tests in such a way as to eliminate these un-
profitable areas.
There is an important contribution by the late C. E. Stuart and other
workers on the relation between E.S.P. results and personality measure-
ments of which the most significant finding is that those making " ex-
pansive " drawings scored more highly in clairvoyant perceptions of
drawings than did those subjects who made " compressive " drawings.
In view of the importance of such comparisons, it is a pity that a more
adequate statistical technique of comparison is not used. It seems to me
that the comparison should not be between the total score in the two cases
but between the number of individuals scoring respectively above and
below chance in the two groups. No figures are given by which one can
estimate whether the difference between the groups would also be signifi-
cant if determined in this way. In view of the large number of subjects
used (thirty-six expansive and fifty-nine compressive) it seems likely that it
would. There is also a discussion by a physicist R. A.. McConnel as to
whether such phenomena as P.K. are physical or non-physical.
R. H. T.
LIBRARY NOTICE
The Council is anxious that the Society's library should include all im-
portant books on psychical research and closely related subjects. The
Library Committee would be obliged to members for notification of any
book, new or old, which it is considered should be obtained for the library.
They would also be glad to hear of any articles or discussions, likely to be
of interest to members, which appear in non-psychic books and periodicals.
CORRESPONDENCE
Sir,—Is the old rule regarding the privacy of the Journal really necessary.'
It is generally agreed that the educated world is scandalously ignorant of,
and indifferent to, the work of the Society ; and anything that would
contribute, in whatever degree, to the removal of this state of affairs, is a
step in advance.
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research OCT.-NOV. 1947
As to the objections of any contributors of cases who might not wish to
have their names published, these could surely be overcome by the use of
pseudonyms, initials, and such-like. There would, of course, be no
question of making public the contents of past Journals, which were ob-
tained on the definite assurance that this would not be done.
The excellent recent issue (June-July), in which this rule was relaxed,
shows, I think, that this policy is popular, and also that it is practical and
does not lead to a scarcity of cases.
It might also be said that the printing in a ^uhWc Journal of cases which,
although of some interest, are weak evidentially, would bring the Society
into disrepute. But if it should be held desirable to include any such cases
when further evidence is unobtainable, an editorial note can always be
included, pointing out the weaknesses. As this is the exact procedure that
was adopted in the above-mentioned issue (a case of apparent retro-
cognition), I do not think that this objection can be considered a serious
one.
Moreover, the Journal is available at the British Museum, and, I believe,
elsewhere. Surely the maintenance of this theoretical privacy is rather
unnecessary.
Yours faithfully, ;
A. M. Western
[While we entirely agree with our correspondent that a wider circulation
of some of the material printed in the Journal would be useful, we think
that the issue of occasional special numbers with unrestricted circulation
may solve the difficulty better than an immediate abrogation of the rule of
privacy. Some of the matter in xht Journal is genuinely meant for members
only. Liberty to quote cases printed in the Journal is often given, provided
the consent of the persons concerned is obtained.
—
Hon. Editor.]
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
December, 1947 • • •
, ' -
Vol. XXXIV—No. 641
CONTENTS
PAGE
'
New Members - - -122
Meeting of the Council - - - - .- - -122
Trinity College Perrott Studentship - - - - 123 _
A Verified Reference in Automatic Writing - - - 124
An Unfulfilled Pre-cognitive Dream - - - - 124
A Case of Apparent Retrocognition - - - - - 125
Recent Cases of Hauntings - - - - - - 129
Correspondence - - - - - - - -139
PUBLIC LECTURES : DISCUSSION MEETING
The fourth Public Lecture arranged by the Society was given by Professor
C. D. Broad on Friday, 12 December. His subject was " The Pheno-
menology of Trance and Mediumship ".
A Discussion Meeting to consider questions arising from the four
Public Lectures will be held at Caxton Hall, Caxton Street, Westminster,
London, S.W. i, at 8 p.m. on Friday, 30 January, 1948.
Admission free. Tickets for reserved seats may be obtained in advance
from the Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i.
A PRIVATE MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
will be held in the Society's Library
31 TAVISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C. I
on Thursday, January 22, 1948, at 6 p.m.
when a paper on
" HAND-WRITING IN AUTOMATIC SCRIPT '
(with lantern slides)
will be read by
MR JAMES LEIGH
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their fiatnes at the door.
122 .
Journal of Society for Psychical Research dec. 1947
NEW MEMBERS
Bullock, Judge Willoughby, Tangles, Old Bosham, Sussex.
Chazottes, Maurice L., 42 Amherst Road, Bexhill-on-Sea, Sussex-
Davey, D. R., Glenholme, 210 Old Road, Parsley, nr Leeds.
Greene, W. E., Mohamedi Chambers, Victoria Gardens Road, Bycullah,
Bombay, India.
Hewitt, Dr E.J. C, Rosslynlee, Rosslyn Castle, Midlothian.
Lahaise, Mrs I. D., Wych House, Shirley Road, Hove 4. %
Maddock, E., c/o Ariston Gold Mine, Prestea, Gold Coast, British West
Africa.
Meulin, Henry, 31 Parkside Gardens, London, S.W. 19.
Seward, P. S., 2 Kara Lodge, Newton Grove, Bedford Park, London, W. 4.
Stuart, C. E. B., Culmore House, Culmore, Co. Derry, N. Ireland.
Sweetlove, T., 67c Broadway West, Leigh-on-Sea, Essex.
Thompson, A. H., 49 Barley Cop Lane, Lancaster.
Williamson, Mrs M. W., 262 Nithsdale Road, Glasgow, S. i.
Student-Associate
Michael, R. P., 79 Barkston Gardens, London, S.W. 5.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 430th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square, Lon-
don, W.C. I, on Friday, 17 October, 1947, at 3 p.m. The President, Mr
W. H. Salter, in the Chair. The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council
were read and signed as correct. Thirteen new Members and one Student-
Associate were elected ; their names and addresses are given above.
MEETING OF THE SOCIETY -
*
The 196th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's Rooms
on Saturday, 8 November, 1947, at 3 p.m., when a Lecture on " Victor
Hugo's Experiences in Table-Turning " was given by Professor D. Saurat.
DONATIONS ^ ;;;fr
The Hon. Treasurer gratefully acknowledges the following donations
to the Society's Funds :
Professor Henry Habberley Price - - - ^1000
Miss M. L. Baker - - - - - - 500
Mr David J. Lewis - - - - - - 2 10 6
Miss A. E. Grignon - - - - - - 1190
- Miss M. 1. Candler i i o
Mr W. E. Leslie - - - - - - 100
MC. 1947 Trinity College Perrott Studentship 123
TRINITY COLLEGE
PERROTT STUDENTSHIP IN PSYCHICAL RESERACH
The Electors to the Perrott Studentship are prepared to receive apphcations
from candidates.
Psychical Research is defined, for the purpose of the Studentship, as
" the investigation of mental or physical phenomena which seem prima
facie to suggest {a) the existence of supernormal powers of cognition or
action in human beings in their present life, or {b) the persistence of the
human mind after bodily death ".
TTie Studentship is open to any person who shall have completed his or
her twenty-first year at the time when the election takes place. A Student
may be re-elected once, but not more than once.
The Studentship is tenab)^ for one year, and the Student will be re-
quired to devote a substantial part of the period of his tenure to investigat-
ing some problem in Psychical Research. The Student shall not, during
the tenure of his Studentship, engage in any other occupation to such an
extent as would in the opinion of the Electors interfere with his course of
research.
The Studentship will be of such value, not exceeding £300, as the Elec-
tors may award after considering the nature of the research which the
candidate proposes to undertake. The emolument will, in general, be paid
half-yearly, and the first instalment will be paid on the quarter-day on
which the tenure of the Studentship begins.
The Student shall, during the tenure of his Studentship, pursue to the
satisfaction of the Electors the course of research proposed by him in his
application ;
provided that such course may be altered with the consent of
the Electors. The Electors will appoint a Supervisor with whom the
Student is to keep in regular touch. If the Electors shall report to the
Council of Trinity College, Cambridge, that the Student is failing to pursue
his course of research with due diligence, the Council may, if they think fit,
deprive him of his Studentship.
Applications from candidates should be sent to Professor C. D. Broad,
Trinity College, Cambridge, before 3 May, 1948. In making his applica-
tion a candidate should state his qualifications and claims, and his proposed
course of research ; he may also submit any work which he has written,
published or unpublished. No testimonials are required from candidates
who are graduates of Cambridge University or women students on whom a
title of a degree has been conferred by that University. Other candidates
must submit the names of three referees, and the Electors will not award
the Studentship to any such candidate until they have had a personal inter-
view with him.
The election to the Studentship will take place in the Easter Term of
1948, and, if a candidate be elected, his tenure will begin at Michaelmas
following the election. -, .
,
31 October, 1947. .
- ;
';
124 Journal of Society for Psychical Research DEC. 1947
A VERIFIED REFERENCE IN AUTOMATIC WRITING
In the March-April, 1947, number of the Journal we printed an account of
the Hon. Mrs C. H. Gay's sitting with the trance medium, Mrs Bedford, at
which information was given connected with the death of a man she knew
slightly. Several facts, previously unknown to Mrs Gay, were verified by
Mrs B , in whose house the death occurred.
Mrs Gay writes of a further incident, which appears to be connected
with the same person, as follows :
" Last September Mrs B lent me her house while she and her hus-
band were away. I had a strong inclination on the evening of September
7th to try some automatic writing and I wrote the following sentences :
'
No need for more tests, but keys is one. Remind her of keys—to do with
holiday.' I got my husband to initial the script and a fortnight later when I
saw Mrs B I asked her if it conveyed anytfiing to her as it was nonsense
to me. She was astonished and amused and said it obviously related to an
incident which had happened fifteen years ago and which she had not
thought of for many years and had certainly never mentioned to me. She
and her husband and this friend had been abroad together for a short holi-
day and on their return they found that they had all come away with their
hotel bedroom keys in their pockets. They laughed over it a good deal. . . .
She found her key in a drawer a long time afterwards."
Mr C. H. Gay writes :
" I am writing to verify the fact that my wife
wrote the script containing the message for Mrs B ' Remind her of
keys—to do with holiday'. This was on Sept. 7th, 1947, and I initialled
and dated it."
Mrs B writes :
" Mrs Gay has asked me to corroborate the ex-
tract which she sent you from her automatic script of Sept. 7th, 1947,
containing a message purporting to come from a friend of mine who died
here in 1946 and reminding me (as an identity test) of " Keys to do with a
holiday'. The incident was as follows : My husband, this friend and I
went abroad for a short holiday together in 1928. On our return journey
we stayed in Paris for two nights, and when we got back home we found we
had the keys of the two bedrooms in our pockets. After a long discussion
on the difficulties of posting them back because of Customs, etc., we de-
cided to keep them. I found mine in a drawer a few years ago and joked
with my friend about it. It was a trivial joke and I had certainly never
mentioned it to Mrs Gay nor had my husband, and I had not thought of
the incident for a long time until Mrs Gay asked me in Sept., 1947, if
'
keys and a holiday '
in connection with this friend meant anything. Then
I said '
Yes, it did '
and I went to the drawer and showed her the Paris
hotel key."
AN UNFULFILLED PRECOGNITIVE DREAM
On the morning of Oct. 29th, 1947, the Research Officer received the fol-
lowing letter from Mr Godley, the gentleman whose racing dreams were
reported in the June-July number of the Journal.
" Three nights ago my friend Alan Beesley dreamt that Claro had won
DEC. 1947 An Unfulfilled Precognitive Dream
the Cambridgeshire. This race is being run at Newmarket to-morrow,
Wednesday. I was naturally excited by Alan's dream, in view of my own
experience, and put on a fiver each way for luck.
Last night, I myself dreamt that Claro had won. I dreamt that I was
walking about Oxford at the time of the race, and then overheard some
people discussing the result in a shop. I rushed up to them and said, " Do
you know what won the Cambridgeshire " and they replied, " Yes, Claro
won, but there were only four runners." I realised that I had won a lot of
money, and then woke up.
I am perfectly aware that as I had backed the horse before the dream I
had—and have—a special interest in it winning, and that the dream is very
likely to be a perfectly ordinary one, representing what I should like to
happen. But just out of interest I am writing to tell you of it, and you
should receive this on the morning of the race."
On the afternoon on which this letter was received the horse Claro came
7th in a field of 38 with starting odds 15-2. It is a pity that the failure of
this dream ^premonition breaks Mr Godley's interesting run of successful
predictions. It must be noted, however, that in this case there was not the
same feeling of certainty that it would come off.
A CASE OF APPARENT RETROCOGNITION by J. T. Evans.
Statement about a Devonshire Cove
The statement published in the^oz/rna/ for June-July, 1947, on observations
made in March, 1938, in a Devonshire Cove calls for careful consideration.
It may be useful to examine the features which seemed abnormal, each one
separately from the others, to see whether any normal explanation is reason-
ably acceptable.
It is unfortunate, first, that eighteen months should have elapsed after
the event before the account was committed to paper and, secondly, that
seven years more passed before publication became possible, with the
result that Mr Spence is no longer able to supply further details. In the
following notes an attempt has therefore been made to put forward possible
alternative normal explanations of the various features of the case in the
light of the facts given in the statement and of such other information as it
has proved possible to collect on the site.
It will be remembered that Mr Spence visited a Devonshire cove on a
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday in March, 1938, and came to the opin-
ion that during parts of the Tuesday and Thursday visits the local geog-
raphy, the tides and the atmosphere were abnormal and different from what
they were on the Wednesday and on the rest of the Tuesday and Thursday
visits. Mr Spence put forward the hypothesis that during the abnormal
periods he had been viewing the locality as it was at some period in the past.
The headings used in the following notes are the same as in the statement.
The Atmosphere. .
,
The changes in the atmosphere evidently made a considerable impres-
sion on Mr Spence, but since the experience was wholly personal to him it
seems difficult to comment helpfully upon it.
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research dec. 1947
The Tide.
The statement says that on the Tuesday the tide was out and Mr Spence
was able to enter the cave, but on Wednesday and Thursday at about
the same time as on Tuesday the tide was in and the cave inlet was under
water.
The approach to the inlet in which the cave is situated is cut off at high
tide. On the Tuesday, high tide was recorded as 9.34 a.m. and it is pre-
sumed that Mr Spence arrived at the beach some time later in the morning
when the tide had fallen some distance. He was able to enter the cave inlet.
On the Wednesday, when he arrived at about the same time, the tide was
higher, since it gained 30 or 40 minutes each day, and the approach to the
inlet was cut off. On the Thursday, the tide was higher still and Mr Spence
had to wait for it to fall before being able to reach the cave inlet.
These conditions are what would normally be expected and no ex-
planation would be necessary were it not that the tide is stated to have
been " right out " oh Tuesday and " right up " at about the same time
on Wednesday and Thursday.
It should be noted that (i) the sandy part of the beach at Man Sands is
flat, and 30 or 40 minutes make a considerable difference to the appearance
of the beach ; moreover the sand elsewhere is broader and higher than in
the immediate neighbourhood of the cave inlet and a large expanse of sand
is exposed not far away at the time when the approach to the cave inlet is
still under water and thus the tide looks lower elsewhere than at the cave
inlet, and (2) the tide on the Wednesday and Thursday is described various-
ly as being " right up ", " fairly full " and " practically full " so that it
seems possible that the tidal conditions and the times of arrival were not
observed with much precision. There seemed no reason at the time why
they should be.
The hallucinatory explanation requires either that Mr Spence really
walked across the beach at high tide on Tuesday under the impression that
it was low tide, without even getting his clothes wet, or~else that the whole
Tuesday visit was an hallucination. Both these explanations seem more
difficult to accept than the one suggested above, namely, that his three visits
were made round about that state of the tide at which the approach to the
cave inlet became uncovered.
The Cave. -
The statement says that the cave was easily found on the Tuesday but
not on the Thursday when it appeared that a landslide had occurred.
The cave passing right underneath Crabrock Point at Man Sands, near
Brixham, must be known to many people. The north-west opening, in a
little inlet at the southern end of Man Sands, is above high water mark but
the floor of the south-east opening is under water even at low spring tides.
In the cliff face above the north-west opening, the one referred to in the
statement, there is a shatter-zone of loose material from which it is evident
that falls of shale are not uncommon ; loose shale lies in a large heap on
the floor of this entrance of the cave and largely obscures it. Mr Spence's
suggestion that there had been a landslip between the Tuesday and
Thursday visits is thus quite a likely and a normal one.
DEC. 1947 A Case of Apparent Retrocognition '.
127
The Path.
The statement says that Mr Spence clambered up a httle cHff path on the
Tuesday but could not find it on the Thursday when he looked for it from
above.
There are two rough paths up the cliff at the southern end of Man Sands
approximately in the positions shown on the plan accompanying the state-
ment. One of them is not very obvious and having " clambered up " it on
Tuesday Mr Spence might well have had difficulty in finding it again when
he approached it from above on Thursday.
The Field.
The statement says that in the field between the cove and the wall Mr
Spence found more bracken on Tuesday and Thursday than he did on
Wednesday.
On Tuesday and Thursday the route taken was not far from the cliff edge
and lay through bracken and brambles. On Wednesday the route was
inland and lay over grass.
The accompanying reproduction of part of the 1/2,500 Ordnance Map,
(Sheet No. Devonshire 128,10, Second Edition, 1906,) on which I have
marked the areas of bracken, brambles, etc., shows that the cliff-side route
may well have had more bracken and brambles than the inland route and
there seems nothing abnormal about the varied vegetation.
What would seem abnormal is the presence of high bracken at all in
March. It may be noted however, that {a) the statement mentions bracken
under normal conditions (page 77, line 8) and {b) the statement uses the
expression " bracken ", " bramble ", " scrub " and " ferns " to describe
the vegetation. It may be therefore that the word " bracken " was used in a
generic way to cover all such obstructions to progress. In 1947 all these
plants were present as well as gorse, thorn and other bushes.
Lone Tree and Gate.
The statement says that a lone tree and gate were visible from the wall on
the Wednesday but on the Tuesday merely a mass of stunted trees could be
seen at first and the lone tree and gate appeared as Mr Spence walked on.
The ground rises steeply from Man Sands to the old wall and thence to the
triangulation point (shown as a small triangle on the Ordnance Map) on the
shoulder of the hill and thereafter the ground rises more gently to the gate.
The gate is not visible from the old wall ; the shoulder of the hill inter-
venes. On walking southward from the wall towards the gate the first
objects to appear are several stunted, wind-driven trees on and below the
edge of the cliff. Then the gate becomes apparent. On walking south-
westward from the wall however the gate is clearly seen, owing to undula-
tions in the surface of the ground, before the stunted trees come into view.
Considering that the land surface here undulates steeply in two directions
so that it is confusing and most difficult to keep accurate account of move-
ments or direction and considering that the statement was written eighteen
months after the event, the account of the relative visibility of the gate and
the stunted trees is surprisingly accurate and it discloses nothing abnormal.
On one point alone does memory appear to be at fault. The statement
128 Journal of Society for Psychical Research dec. 1947
Based upon the Ordnance Survey Map, with the sanction of H.M. Stationery
Office. This map has been reduced in printing to J- linear, so that the scale as it
appears on this page is 1/7,500.
DEC. 1947 A Case of Apparent Retrocognition '
129
(page 78, line 12) that the gate is visible from the place where the fall nearly
took place is not correct ; the shoulder of the hill intervenes.
The Wall.
The statement says that on the Tuesday and Thursday the wall seemed
less ivy-covered but longer than it did on Wednesday.
The position and shape of the old wall are shown on the attached repro-
duction of part of the i /2,500 Ordnance Map. On the reproduction, stone
walls are shown by heavy lines and hedges and wire fences are shown by
light lines.
The apparent change of condition and length of the wall may possibly
have been due to the following two features, (i) part of the wall is ivy-
covered, particularly near the point where the fall nearly took place, and
part is free from ivy, (2) the edge of the cliff is not well defined but progress-
ively steepens and the vegetation makes it difficult to see where the steep
part of the cliff begins and where the wall ends.
The photograph reproduced in Xht Journal is not of a piece of wall on the
headland, as the statement says, but is of the piece of wall where the fall
nearly took place, though on the other side of it. The camera was pointing
north ; in the far background may be seen the clifTs beyond Man Sands,
and the headland itself appears in the near background.
The Giddiness.
The statement says that on the Thursday Mr Spence thought the wall
extended for some way over grass and brambles and bracken to the edge of
the cliff but on taking a few paces forward he felt giddy and nearly fell over
the edge of the cliff.
The dense vegetation makes it easy to approach the edge of the cliff near,
the wall without realising the danger of falling until one is actually on a
steep incline and this may perhaps be what actually occurred in 1938.
Conclusion.
The cumulative effect of these apparently abnormal features must have
been impressive to the observer but it is difficult to say, on the information
available, that the experiences were so unusual as to preclude the possibil-
ity of normal explanations.
RECENT CASES OF HAUNTINGS
D. J. West
Except for the earlier volumes, the Proceedings and Journal contains com-
paratively few cases of hauntings. This is not through any lack of ghostly
phenomena. Newspapers are always mentioning cases, particularly around
Christmastime. The Society's files contain hundreds of reports, and their
number is continually increasing.
There are definite reasons why so few haunting cases find their way into
S.P.R. publications. In the first place, the Society is often consulted in an
advisory capacity about haunted houses, and is asked to keep the matter
130 . , Journal of Society for Psychical Research dec. 1947
confidential. Owners of houses fear the value of their property may be
lowered, and tenants fear legal action may be taken against them if they
give their place of residence a bad reputation.
Haunting phenomena are mostly sporadic and lacking in clear-cut veridi-
cal features. For instance, the investigator may be told that on a certain
day so and so saw an unexplained figure in a locality supposedly haunted.
Usually it is impossible to establish any definite connection between the
vision and facts about the locality which are unknown to the percipient.
In the absence of this criterion it is difficult to rule out normal causes.
When the percipient is aware that the place has a reputation for haunting,
his experience may be the result of suggestion. Where this explanation is
inapplicable, individual cases can always be explained away by reference to
illusions, non-psychic hallucinations, or real persons mistaken for ghosts.
Since the S.P.R. Journal normally quotes only those cases which present a
reasonable /)rt>Ka/ac?e case for the supernormal, few haunting reports reach
publication standard.
Although these reasons are sound, it still seems a pity that nothing should
be heard about the many attempts at investigating haunts. Even though
no definite conclusions can be reached, the facts concerning hauntings are
by no means uninteresting. With the approval of the Hon. Editor, I am
here breaking with tradition by presenting a digest of illustrative cases
taken from recent additions to the files. It must be stressed that these cases
are not put forward as evidence for the supernormal, but merely as illustra-
tions of typical haunting reports.
G. 300.
MR KANTOR'S EXPERIENCE
The Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research for March-
April 1947 contained an account by Mr MacKinlay Kantor, a well-known
writer, of a ghostly experience in a bedroom of a hostel for Americans in
South Kensington, London. The story also appeared in the popular
American magazine Esquire.
Mr Kantor described how he visited the hostel at a time when every-
where was full with the exception of one small room on the second floor.
The landlady seemed rather apologetic about it, and curiously reluctant
to let him have the room. He thought it rather odd that the elderly folk
who tenanted the place should prefer to live in the third or fourth floor
bedrooms when there was an identical room vacant on the second floor,
with much less stairs to climb to reach it.
As Mr Kantor was settling down to sleep, he was disturbed by something
which started to pull the bedclothes down towards the foot of the bed. He
gripped the clothes tightly, but was still conscious of the pull, and as soon
as he relaxed his grip the blankets started moving off again. After this,
one of the walls of the room became intensely bright, with a whitish lumin-
osity, which gradually increased in brilliancy as it decreased in size. As
this process went on, a jumble of voices became audible. With a deter-
mined effort Mr Kantor pulled the bedclothes over his head. The voices
faded and eventually he fell asleep. In the morning he thought the land-
lady gave him a long look as she asked him how he had slept.
It would be of great interest to know whether anyone else had had
DEC. 1947 Recent Cases of Haunting
similar impressions in the same room. The Editor of the American
Journal very kindly supplied the real name and address of the hostel, and a
member of the Society made inquiries.
It was found that the house had changed hands, and was now used to
lodge the employees of a large industrial concern. The new manageress said
that the story of the haunted room was new to her, but she was interested in
it, and readily identified the room from Mr Kantor's description. Although
this room was now continuously occupied, she had never heard of any
unusual experiences connected with it.
The Research Officer wrote to the manageress who was referred to
by Mr Kantor. She replied that during the time she was there none of
her guests reported anything out of the ordinary in the room.
It would seem that Mr Kantor's experience was a subjective one, and
that he was mistaken in supposing that other people thought there was
something wrong with the room.
G. 301.
THE LUTON GHOST
In October this year the newspapers were full ^ of the story of Mr Key,
owner of Woodfield, Weathercock Lane, Woburn Sands, Bedfordshire,
who had appealed to the Luton Council's Assessment Committee for a
reduction of his rates. One of the grounds of his appeal was that the house
had a reputation for haunting, which lowered its letting value. The case is
quoted here as a typical example of what results are obtained from following
up newspaper accounts of haunts.
Woodfield is a fairly large house—about eleven rooms—said to be built
on the remains of a 300-year old lodge. In his letters to the Assessment
Committee Mr Key quoted a legend said to be current in the village. The
story was that a one-time owner of the house discovered his daughter was
conducting a secret love aff'air with a man of whom he disapproved. One
night he returned to the house unexpectedly, and finding the pair together,
he shut them both up in a cupboard and left them to die. Years later,
Dick Turpin, the famous highwayman, broke into the house and found the
skeletons in the cupboard. As the price of his silence he demanded the use
of the house as a hide-out. In return he helped remove the skeletons and
bury them in a safer place.
Little evidence was supplied that the house was actually haunted. It had
been occupied by Mr Key's sister until her death, four years previously.
She had not reported any ghost. Since then the sole occupant had been an
elderly lady. Miss Amy Dickinson, who declared that she had never been
troubled by a ghost. The only person who could report any " experience
"
in the house was Miss Doreen Price, a young lady who was evacuated
there in 1944. Miss Dickinson made her a bed in the drawing-room.
She woke up in the night and saw hands and arms coming out from the wall
above her head. She fell asleep, but woke again and once more saw the
hands and arms. She moved to another room and had no further uncanny
experiences.
* Practically every British newspaper devoted some paragraphs to the case (in-
cluding the Thnes and Netus of the World), and it also appeared in papers in S.
Africa and Canada.
132 Journal of Society for Psychical Research dec. 1947
Councillor H. W. M. Richards, a member of the Assessment Committee,
was interested in psychic matters and decided to organise an investigation.
He contacted the Psychic News and arranged for one of their reporters and
Mrs Florence Thompson, a trance medium, to hold a seance in the haunted
house.
The first seance took place on the night of Friday, Sept. 26th, 1947. The
party included, besides Mr Richards and various newspaper representa-
tives, two local " amateur investigators " (Mr A. P. Underwood and Mr
Brown) and a friend of the medium's (Mr P. Craven). Mrs Thompson
went into trance and became controlled by what was said to be a distressed
spirit. " Let me go. Let me go. You are killing me. Don't shoot me."
Unfortunately the voice was too incoherent to give any information, but
when she came out of trance Mrs Thompson is reported to have said that
she got the impression of a " tied up " condition and that two lovers were
concerned.
Mr Richards, when questioned by the Research Officer a fortnight later,
said that he was impressed by this result, since care was taken not to tell the
medium anything about the legend of the lovers until the seance was over.
Mr Underwood, however, thought that the precautions taken were insuffi-
cient to ensure that the medium knew nothing about it. In any case, the
legend was actually mentioned in the Luton News on Sept. 25th, that is to
say before the day of the seance. The paper says :
" The legend is that two
lovers were murdered there in the days of Dick Turpin." The medium's
impressions hardly went beyond this newspaper statement.
A second seance, attended by the Research Officer, was held on Oct. i ith,
1947. There were two medium's present, Mrs Florence Thompson and
Mr George Kenneth. By this time both of them were perfectly familiar
with the details of the legend, and discussed it freely with the company.
The sitting was held in dim red light. The mediums gave their impressions
which included visions of an old man and of a black horse—presumably the
famous Black Bess. Various members of the circle also reported visionary
exp iriences, but there seemed to be no correlation between them. Mr
Richards, Mr Brown, the Research Officer and the newspaper reporters
saw nothing. It will be seen that neither medium described anything which
could be verified, and that their impressions all conformed with a dubious
legend which, by its very nature, was most unlikely to be true.
On Oct. 1 6th the Luton Assessment Committee met. Mr Richards
declared himself satisfied on the evidence that the house was haunted. The
Committee pointed, out that the investigations were not carried out at their
request. They asked Mr Richards to retire while they came to a decision.
Mr Key's appeal was rejected.
In a case like this it is interesting to notice how ready some people are to
assume without evidence a supernormal explanation, and how unwilling
others are even to consider such a possibility. The objective standpoint of
the psychical investigator seems foreign to the average individual.
G. 302.
THE HAUNTING AT S.
The centre of attraction in this case was a small cottage, some forty years
old, situated at the end of a terraced row, in a quiet village of Southern
DEC. 1947 Recent Cases of Haunting 133
England, here called S. The Hon. Secretary and the Research Officer
visited S. on Nov. 3rd, 1946, at the suggestion of a local doctor who was
interested in the haunting.
The household consisted of Mr and Mrs T. (both about 60 years of age)
and their recently " demobbed " son George, aged 24. There were three
married daughters living elsewhere—Violet, Margery and Sylvia. Violet,
the eldest, was about 34 years old.
Mr T. was a housepainter, employed by a local firm. The ghost did not
trouble him because he was deSf and regularly slept through the noises.
However, he looked thin and anxious, and gave a history of stomach pain
due to " nerves ".
Mrs T. seemed a rather hysterical type, highly preoccupied with her
experiences. Ghosts had followed her about all her life, even before she
came to the present haunted house. By all accounts this was a family trait,
for according to George his maternal grandfather, Mr R., was a man who
was always looking for something supernatural. Mrs T. told one story
(strongly suggestive of an hysterical reaction) in which she had had a vivid
dream of being thumped on the back. In the morning she felt sore and was
covered in bruises.
George was not very robust to look at, and had a nervous manner, but he
talked intelligently about it all. He stated that during the war his unit was
stationed at the famous poltergeist resort Borley Rectory—but nothing
happened while he was there. George was supposed to have a fairy-
godfather apparition which appeared to him at moments of crisis. George's
wife had recently left him, and Mrs T. thought that this marital trouble
might have some connection with the sudden increase in the phenomena
centred around George.
Other members of the family had similar histories. Violet, when she
was twelve years old, was wasting away and was advised to go to a sana-
torium. Instead she went to stay with some spiritualists and attended a
healing circle. Sylvia was said to have walked and talked in her sleep as a
child.
So much for the psychological background, not very good from the
investigating standpoint, but perhaps all the better for the ghost.
Mr and Mrs T. had moved into the house 32 years ago. They knew the
previous occupant, but there was no suggestion that the place was haunted.
Mrs T. said she had always felt there was some sort of " influence " about
the place. Footsteps were heard in the passage at the side of the house
when nobody was there. There were unaccountable noises in the yard.
Violet used to complain when she was young that she could hear people
walking about on the roof. When she was ten she was terrified by seeing
a luminous vapour coming out of the dark lavatory closet. (It must be
explained that there was no electric light. Downstairs was supplied by gas,
upstairs by candles.) One particular bedroom was specially associated with
the haunt. Mrs T.'s father, Mr R. (now dead), was said to have seen some-
thing when he slept there one night. He would never say what it was, but
he refused to sleep in the house again. Margery said she had seen a lumin-
ous cloud coming through the window of this room. Sylvia could not be
interviewed with her sisters because she was living in America, but she
wrote to the Research Officer describing the footsteps in the passage and
134 Journal of Society for Psychical Research dec. 1947
other noises. She also said that she had just entered the haunted bedroom
one night when there was a most terrible noise. She screamed and
panicked. To reassure her, her fiance, who was staying in the house,
changed bedrooms with her, but he saw and heard nothing unusual.
Although there seem to have been a great many incidents of this kind,
spread over the years, it would be profitless to pursue them. We have no
means of knowing whether they were normal events, such as noises from
next door, lights from outside, disturbances by animals, etc., which were
misinterpreted owing to the nervous disposition and vivid imaginations of
the occupants. More significant were the recent happenings, which fol-
lowed upon George's return from the Forces. They seemed to be getting
steadily worse. On the night of Oct. 20th, George was thoroughly un-
nerved when two candles, which he had in his bedroom while undressing,
were repeatedly extinguished as if by the pinch of an unseen hand.
The night following, Mr K., a working man aged 26, slept with George
to see if he too would meet the ghost. Just before ii.o p.m. they both
heard a scratching near the window of the bedroom. George switched on a
torch, and both men saw that the cloth on a bedside table had been pulled,
and some articles on the table displaced. A brush was hanging half over
the edge, and the cloth was seen to be still waving when the torchlight
shone upon it. There was no cat in the house. The Research Officer
interviewed Mr K., who was a very down-to-earth type, but deeply
impressed by the ghostly experience.
By this time the family were becoming too frightened to sleep in the
house, and formed the habit of staying with nearby relatives overnight.
On Oct. 30th, Mr J., a sceptical relative, accompanied by Mr W. senior and
Mr W. junior, decided to spend an all night vigil in the haunted bedroom.
At 1 1.45 p.m. they heard heavy footsteps approaching the back door (which
was unlocked) and then there was a roaring sound as if someone had come
in and lit the gas. Through the frosted glass panels in the door of the
haunted room, which overlooked the stairs, they saw a blue light which greW
stronger, as if ascending the stairs. They opened the door, but immedi-
ately all was quiet and there was no light. They rushed downstairs with
their torches on, but no one was about and they were sure no one could have
had time to escape. Mr J. and Mr W. senior were interviewed by the
Research Officer. Both were sensible witnesses, who appeared to have
thought of most of the ordinary explanations, including a practical joke,
but without being able to account for their experience.
Mrs T. said that she also had heard footsteps approaching the back door
at night, followed by a light coming up the stairs. Unfortunately Mrs T.
did not seem a reliable witness, and while her experiences were many and
varied, the Research Officer could find no evidence of her having described
this particular phenomenon before she heard Mr J's story.
Two nights later the landlord and some friends spent a night in the house,
but nothing happened. On Nov. 3rd the Research Officer spent a night
there with George—the most haunted member of the family. In spite of
Mrs T's assurance that she could feel " it's " presence, and her reluctance
to leave them alone at " it's
" mercy, neither of them experienced anything
that night.
Later, in November a group of leading spiritualists paid a visit to the
DEC. 1947 Recent Cases of Haunting 135
cottage, accompanied by a well-known trance medium. After the occu-
pants had been questioned about their experiences, the medium went into
trance, and his guide explained that the disturbances were due to an elderly
lady in spirit. She had once lived in the place and had been suffocated in
the haunted bedroom by a feather pillow. Her spirit still lingered because
she did not realise she was dead.
Mrs T. was very frightened at all this. Afterwards she also went into an
apparent trance, and said she was the spirit of Eileen Stanley of Waterlane
and that her brother had been murdered in 1886 and his body buried under
the hearth. Waterlane was a place nearby where Mrs T. had lived as a girl.
1886 was long before the cottage was built. George says he took up the
floorboards to try to find the body under the hearth, but without success.
At the end of November a party of R.A.F. men had a night's watch in
the house. Only one of them encountered the ghost, he felt " the Thing
coming up as if it were reaching out towards (him) and a peculiar but very
powerful sensation spread over (his) chest and arms ".
On Dec. 14th, 1946, Dr A. J. B. Robertson and a medical student stayed
there for a night, but without any experience. Dr Robertson reported :
" The only new phenomena of note reported was a supposed ghostly strang-
ling of George when upstairs followed by him being pushed downstairs,
where he was caught by (Mr J.). Actually the matter, I think, reduces to
George passing out on top of the stairs and falling back down them. He
was revived in a few minutes."
Finally the T. family left the house altogether, having been told by the
local authorities that it would be requisitioned if they continued sleeping
elsewhere. On Sept. 25th, 1947, a year later, a letter was received from the
new tenant saying :
" I am now the occupier of this house, and have been for the past four
months, during which time neither I nor my wife have either seen or heard
anything unusual."
Whatever view one takes of the nature of the happenings in this so-called
haunted house, it is clear that in this case, as in many others, the causes are
bound up with the personal psychology of the family concerned, rather
than with the house itself. In ten old cases of haunted houses followed up
recently by the Research Officer, not one survived a change of occupant.
Another point brought out by this case is the unreliability of medium-
istic impressions in connection with haunted houses. In both this and the
preceding case a medium was called in, but it is very doubtful if the people
were made any the wiser for it.
G. 303. " •
.
THE HAUNTING OF R GRANGE
The following report, sent to us in September, 1947, comes from Mr A.
J. Sharp of the Durham University S.P.R.
R is a village in Wharfedale on the edge of the Yorkshire Moors.
The Grange is a solidly built stone house dating to about 1500. The
present porch bears the date 1672 but the original doorway which can still
be seen is considered to be much older. Among remarkable features of the
house are two hanging stones on the gable end and numerous devices
chiselled on the stones and above the windows as a protection against
136 Journal of Society for Psychical Research DEC. 1947
witches. The house is now divided into two, the larger part which includes
the porch being owned by Mr L , and the smaller part by Mr F .
In the larger part, the ground floor consists of a living-room from which
a kitchen passage and staircase lead off. The passage leading to the back
door (the porch is at present bricked off) also gives access to two store
rooms beyond, one of which is a large empty room containing the cellar
staircase and having a connecting door with the living-room. The upper
floor has a landing leading to two bedrooms, a bathroom and a large sitting-
room (formerly a bedroom) which leads to a small bedroom above"' the
porch. This has been dubbed the haunted room, though the reason seems
obscure. The cellars are peculiar. The staircase leads into the larger of
two, the walls being fitted with stone wine bins and illumination formerly
provided by a window below ground level opening onto a path which is
now flagged over. There is also a small well now little more than a sump.
The smaller cellar also has a window leading onto a short earth-walled
passage and coming up in the front garden.
The statements of Mr and Mrs L .
Mr and Mrs L with their son and two daughters, then very young,
moved into the house in September, 1938. Their neighbour then, a Mrs
R , warned them that the place was certainly haunted. The first floor
sitting-room was then used as a bedroom and seemed to form the centre of
activity. Frequently during the night a shufiiing sound would be heard
approaching the door, then a noise which Mrs L described as like a
great heap of clothes falling from the door onto the floor inside the bed-
room. On investigation nothing was ever seen to account for the sounds.
The door of the haunted room, which I am satisfied can be securely latched
without danger of springing open, was frequently opened during the night.
One of the most unusual phenomena was the sound of footsteps within the
bedroom, accompanied by the springing up and down of the floorboards,
which would be produced by someone walking across them (they are a
narrow variety easily depressed).
These phenomena ceased in July, 1942, (when the room was vacated
as a bedroom), with the exception of the unlatching of the door which
has occurred in recent months. The haunted room now being occupied by
the eldest daughter.
A frequent occurrence was the appearance of smoke issuing from the
ceiling, but this was discovered to be due to a leakage in one of the flues.
A pecuHar incident happened in September, ,,1939 (September seems to
have been the period when phenomena were at their best). Mrs L
was alone in the living-room, and her eldest daughter sleeping upstairs,
the handle of the door leading to the cellar turned and the door opened.
A moment later it closed, reopened, and closed again. There was a violent
noise on the outer door and the latch of the passage door lifted, the door
swinging open. At this Mrs L fled upstairs quite terrified and woke
her daughter. Together they searched the house but everything seemed
normal.
This statement I collected on my first visit on July, 24th 1947, but having
only an evening at my disposal I did not interview the F s until my
second visit on August 7th.
DEC. 1947 Recent Cases of Haunting 137
They had been in residence only a short time and had experienced
nothing. The arrangement of this part of the house is therefore irrelevant.
The history of the house is again of little importance though it is once
supposed to have been a nunnery and there are tales in the village of
encounters with a " white lady " though no one will swear to have seen her.
I communicated with Mrs R , who now lives in the south of England,
and she sent me a statement from which I again take extracts.
Statement of Mrs R .
The one experience which could not be explained occurred on August
Bank Holiday of 1928 (or 9). The noise which sounded like the swishing of
clothes was heard by both Mr and Mrs R who got up and made a
search, finding nothing. Nothing more was thought about the incident
until an old resident asked if they had never seen anything. On being
asked what, he said that a woman was supposed to walk the yard from the
barn. An old tale with which Mrs R became acquainted was that a
face could be seen at the round window above the porch if looked for by
anyone standing at the end of the drive. Mrs R 's sister who, on one
occasion, slept several nights in the room over the porch vowed that her
door was opened every night after she had gone to sleep.
In further correspondence Mr Sharp remarked :
" Regrettably enough the phenomena are clearly past their best. . . .
The unlatching of the door is the only incident which has happened for
several weeks. . . . An all night vigil ... I hardly thought worth while . . .
The case might have been a classic if only someone had kept a diary."
The report is perhaps the most typical of the cases quoted. It illustrates
the infrequent and vague nature of the phenomena, which always seem to
elude the investigator's grasp. There are literally hundreds of cases just
like it.
G. 304.
A POLTERGEIST AT AN INN
To complete this little round of cases, here is a poltergeist. The opening
letter came from a neighbour, and read as follows :
June 1 6th, 1947.
Dear Sir,
I am writing to inform you of what I consider to be genuine polter-
geist phenomena at an inn in this town.
There are all the usual symptoms, including drawers being turned out on
the floor, things being moved from place to place or lost, saucepans flung
from a dresser and so on.
I feel certain of the honesty of the people concerned, who have called in
the police, being obviously ignorant of the real cause. ...
The Research Officer visited the inn on June 28th, 1947. The family
consisted of Mr and Mrs E., in late middle age, and a son aged 16, who
looked younger. According to neighbours, this boy was " highly strung
"
and " not quite normal ". There was also a married daughter, but she did
not live in the house.
For the past month a supposed poltergeist had ransacked the bedrooms
138 Journal of Society for Psychical Research dec. 1947
several times a week. Clothes were thrown about, the contents of drawers
scattered, rugs turned upside down, etc., etc. These disturbances went on
during the day at times when the bedrooms were unoccupied.
On arrival, the Research Officer was shown upstairs where one of the
rooms had been preserved for his inspection in a state of chaos from the
previous day's activity. The wardrobe was open, clothes hangers un-
hooked and clothes scattered about the floor. Drawers were open and loose
articles from them and from around the room, including floor coverings,
were all awry. The total efi"ect was as if someone had rushed round the
room grabbing everything they could lay hands on in a deliberate attempt
to disarrange everything without doing any real harm.
Close questioning of members of the family revealed the following
interesting facts :
(1) The whole family pleaded ignorance of poltergeist cases, having
never read or talked about such matters before the present outbreak.
(2) Nothing was ever damaged by the poltergeist.
(3) The boy was the only person to claim to have seen the phenomena in
progress, the other people in the house saw only the after-effects. He told
the Research Officer that only the day before he had gone into his room and
the wardrobe had opened of its own accord and the contents had flown out
in his face.
(4) The parents thought that the phenomena could not be the boy play-
ing pranks, because once or twice they had occurred at times when he could
not have been responsible for them. However, further questioning showed
that there was no real basis for this belief.
(5) Mrs E. was worried both by the happenings and by the suspicion
attaching to her son. Mr E. did not seem to mind, he remarked that it was
good for trade. The boy was said to be terrified by it all, but he obviously
enjoyed telling his experiences.
The Research Officer suggested locking the bedrooms during the day by
way of experiment. This was agreed to, but was never carried out. After
his visit, the phenomena seemed to fade away and nothing has happened
since.
There are scores of cases just like this—a peculiar boy or girl in the house,
with every indication that he or she is the source of the supposed " pheno-
mena ".^ A very similar case, in which the central figure was a little
girl, was investigated in March, 1947. The " phenomena " consisted of
noises at night around the little girl's bed. The parents naively ex-
plained that they were more forcible in the dark. The child was an impish,
precocious creature, who probably produced the noises with her feet on
the bed-rail. The phenomena disappeared with the arrival of the investiga-
tors, and so far as is known have not recurred.
The interesting points about these cases are not so much how the pheno-
mena are produced—which is usually only too obvious, but why they should
occur at all and why they should always indulge in noises and throwing
things about. Possibly discontent, boredom or frustrated urges provide
the initial stimulus, and newspaper stories or sheer animal spirits guide the
pattern of the " phenomena ".
* In 1935, a shop in the same small town was the centre of similar disturbances,
also apparently connected with the presence of a boy.
DEC. 1947 Correspondence 139
CORRESPONDENCE .
To the Editor of the Journal.
Sir,—In recent letters to the Journal Mrs Heywood has suggested that
we should pay more attention to those less well corroborated cases of
purported psi in the belief that such an approach would further aid the
elucidation of the various factors involved.
Such an attitude is surely unwise. As a Society we have obligations to
science as a whole ; and if one of the aims of the S.P.R. is to convince the
scientific world of the validity and importance of our subject, it is essential
to adhere to scientific standards. It is to be regretted that many of the cases
reported in the Journal fall far short of this requirement. If it is the
Society's policy to be less than scientific then it would be advisable to
acknowledge it openly.
Assuming, however, that such is not the case, to put in evidence the
character of the percipient as Mrs Heywood has suggested, is, basically, an
unsound principle to work on. If the evidence so far collected lacks full
conviction it is very largely on account of this tendency to include in our
publications cases not up to the requisite standards of evidence. Unfortu-
nately we cannot assess personal integrity by scientific methods. And even
supposing that we could, owing to the subjective nature of the subject,
personal integrity is no guarantee of accuracy in a psychical narrative.
Mrs Heywood asks :
" How much of what evidence would . . . eliminate
chance coincidence and our other bogies ... ?
" This question is sympto-
matic of the tendency towards muddled thinking into which too many have
fallen in the past. What we need are thoroughly authenticated cases for which
an explanation by chance coincidence, or any other normal means, would
be a logical improbability. Mrs Heywood's question lacks relevance as it
stands and is virtually unanswerable.
It is only by studying and analysing material of whose validity we are not
in doubt that we shall be encouraged to work out a sound theoretical
basis of which psychical research is so much in need. And without some
kind of general induction of this nature we shall add little to knowledge of
the conditions which govern the occurrence of psi.
The fact is that psychical research already suffers enough from draw-
backs which are absent in other sciences ; the inability to reproduce exact
experimental conditions, the lack of a proven working hypothesis, the neces-
sity of largely relying on the evidence of untrained observers—to relax the
standards of evidence in apparent cases of psi phenomena in addition to the
above, is to abandon all pretence of scientific aim and method.
There are a number of people who are convinced that psi phenomena are
not amenable to scientific method. From among these Mrs Heywood will
draw a large measure of support. This attitude I believe to be a cardinal
error, and in a new treatise now in preparation I aim to demonstrate this
beyond further argument. In the conviction that one day psychical re-
search will rank among the accepted branches of science I must deplore
Mrs Heywood's attitude as short-sighted and deleterious to the Society's
best interests. - v .
Yours etc.,
D. H. Rawclifee.
140 Journal of Society for Psychical Research dec. 1947
Sir,—I appreciate the opportunity to comment on Mr Rawcliffe's letter,
though I have little to add to my previous enquiries, which were made
simply in the hope of clearing up an apparently illogical situation. The
attitude that the facts have not as yet proved E.S.P. is intelligible ; so is the
attitude that they have. What seems odd is the attitude that, while accept-
ing E.S.P., spontaneous cases of it must still be assessed on the presupposi-
tion that it is not only non-proven, but so inherently impossible that the
assumption that the reports of many reliable (on other subjects) percipients
may be founded on fact is inadmissable ;
they must be ignored.
The news of Mr RawcliflFe's forthcoming, clarifying treatise is welcome,
but may I humbly protest against his assumption that I do not think E.S.P.
in any way amenable to scientific experiment. In the light of Dr Rhine's
and Dr Soal's experiments alone, this would be absurd. But can the living
being give up all its secrets in the laboratory or the information gained by
the methods of the physical sciences applied to biological phenomena be
more than partial ? Is it possible, for example, to vary one factor only
when studying a living cell, far less when the subject is a complicated rela-
tionship between two elaborate human beings ?
I heartily agree that we want more and more authenticated cases which
cannot be explained by chance coincidence. But to-day all simple cases
seem to fall under this ban and nature is reluctant to supply complicated
ones in quantity. Must we then do no more than rest in the hope that one
day cases of psi will be so common that, as with the equally subjective
phenomena of dreams, we shall dare to assume their existence ?
Yours etc.,
Rosalind Heywood.
Sir,—I agree strongly with Mrs Heywood about the necessity for stating a
definite standard to which it would be necessary to attain to prove, beyond
any doubt, that E.S.P. exists. The lack of any clear idea about this has
been a source of great confusion and inefficiency in psychical research.
Experimenters have had to formulate their own standards and, in the
absence of adequate discussion, have sometimes fixed them at unreasonably
severe or lenient levels. Some, even, have simply not considered the
matter, and have collected " evidence " in a fit of blind acquisitiveness,
without any idea of what sort of evidence is needed. I suggest that this
lack is a partial explanation of the wide differences of opinion as to the inter-
pretation of evidence which have sometimes led to dark suspicions that the
opponents' views were better considered as psychological curiosities than as
opinions to be treated seriously.
During the last 65 years an enormous amount of energy has been ex-
pended on psychical research. Yet, despite this industrious and admirable
activity, E.S.P. (to say nothing of other phenomena of psychical research)
remains, in the eyes of many investigators, unproved. Faced with this
remarkable fact it is not surprising that many people should feel, as Mrs
Heywood evidently feels, that these investigators are perhaps unreasonably
prejudiced, that, in trying to satisfy them, the Society is pouring its work
down a bottomless well, and that whatever the evidence produced it will
never be enough to convince the sceptics. Yet such an attitude, though
natural at a first glance at the facts, cannot be sustained against criticism ;
DEC. 1947 Correspondence 141
for there are definite standards which would satisfy the sceptical as to the
existence of E.S.P., and many who are familiar with all the Society's work
are convinced that these standards have never yet been reached. Moreover
the standards, though severe, are not impractically severe, and it is not
altogether surprising that the sceptic finds his scepticism increasing when
he considers that, despite the enormous quantity of the evidence there is
still, after 65 years, considerable doubt as to whether they have been
attained.
The evidence which I would tentatively suggest as sufficient to convince
any reasonable person of the existence of E.S.P. is as follows :
Expermental Evidence.
1. All means of normal communication, however indirect, between the
percipient and any person (e.g. agent, observer, etc.) who knows the target,
and any means of normal perception or deduction of the target by the per-
cipient must be rigidly excluded until after the guess is made.
2. As soon as such normal communication, perception, or deduction is
made possible, all means of alteration of the recorded targets or guesses
must be rigidly excluded at least until the guesses have been scored and
checked in the presence of at least one independent observer.
3. The experiments must show success in the presence of several inde-
pendent observers. Within reason, a request to be permitted to attend an
experiment as observer must not be refused.
4. The results must be estimated by a reliable statistical method and
should give antichance odds greater than a million to one.
5. Fraud or error, conscious or unconscious, may be excluded in two
ways only :
{a) by physical impossibility.
(b) by repetition of the experiment according to the following rules :
If there is a physically possible normal explanation involving fraud
or error on the part of one experimenter, the experiment must be
repeatable by (almost) any experimenter at will. If at least two
experimenters would have to be involved in such fraud or error, the
experiment must be repeated by two further independent sets of
experimenters. '
.
6. All relevant details must be reported.
These are not completely rigid standards. If, say, there were collateral
evidence throwing doubt on the reliability of the experimenters, they might
be inadequate. It is not necessary to describe how these standards can in
practice be attained : the experiments of Soal and Goldney exemplify the
type of technique that must be used. It is solely because these experi-
ments stand alone as an isolated piece of work as yet unrepeated by other
experimenters that I do not consider it unreasonable to refuse to accept
them as entirely conclusive proof of E.S.P. (see 5 {b) above).
Spontaneous Evidence.
I . All means of normal perception or deduction by the percipient of the
fact or event perceived and all means of normal communication of the fact or
event to the percipient must be impossible until the percipient's observa-
tion has been recorded and placed in the Society's files. (Other reliable
142 Journal of Society for Psychical Research dec. 1947
hands would be permissible, e.g. a bank or Post Office safe, provided one
could be sure that the case would be reported even if the result was negative.)
2. Any possibility of the percipient himself causing the observed fact or
event to occur must be excluded.
3. The coincidence must remain striking even after allowance has been
made for selection of the experience from similar experiences both of the
same percipient and of other percipients.
4. At least three such cases must be on record.
5. All relevant details must be reported.
It is recognised that condition i (Spontaneous Cases) is in normal cases
not easy to satisfy ; but in precognitive cases the requirement is surely very
reasonable, and might well be expected to have been fulfilled by now (with
2, 3 and 5) at least once in the Society's experience.
In conclusion, may I insist that, however unreasonable the sceptic may
appear to some, he is not usually in reality the utter and immoveable
diehard he may seem. Good evidence he will accept : the standards
are definite, he is only waiting for them to be reached. Now that telepathy
has become an everyday word and books on E.S.P. are on sale in every book
shop it is easy to forget that we are concerned with a phenomenon which
seems to contradict utterly the very bases of a system of knowledge that has
been checked and rechecked a thousand times in a thousand different ways
and never, outside the rare and dubious phenomena of our subject, been
found wanting. Is it unreasonable to ask for sound evidence ?
, Yours faithfully,
•
J. D. Proctor
Sir,—Since writing to you I have read with great appreciation Mr Proc-
tor's open-minded and constructive letter. Of course the sceptic has the
right to consider the evidence for E.S.P. inadequate, but Mr Proctor has
caused me tentatively to wonder whether the sceptic's grounds are entirely
logical. He says that E.S.P. contradicts the bases of a system of knowledge
which has been checked and rechecked. But, ultimately, are causality and
the uniformity of nature more than assumptions : are we sure that this
system is more than a description of the relatedness of our sensory percep-
tions ? And is not the system itself behaving in a very peculiar manner }
It is a far cry from Dr Johnson's stone to Eddington's statements that
elementary particles of physics are not objective units and that " it is per-
tinent to remember that the concept of substance has disappeared from
fundamental physics ". If we cannot fit extra sensory perception into the
frame of thought moulded by sensory perception should we perhaps consi-
der the possible limitations of the frame
Many of us have accepted the experimental evidence for E.S.P. on the
authority of Professors Broad and Price, Dr Thouless, and others, not
having the technical knowledge to assess it ourselves. But I think it the
duty of some of us occasionally to have the courage to state that we have a
bias in its favour, created by personal experiences, which make it as great a
mental acrobatic feat for us to deny E.S.P. as for others without those
experiences to accept it. I have listed six of my immediate family and seven
DEC. 1947 Correspondence 143
close friends whose repeated experiences tally so closely with my own that
we can talk about them intelligibly to one another. In some cases they were
acted upon and corroborated to our satisfaction, for we accepted the integ-
rity of the corroborator, but they are of course quite unevidential to others
if corroborators are always suspect. (It is sobering to think of the quantity
of evidence for hoaxing, collusion, misrepresentation and so forth which
may be contained in the records of the S.P.R.)
I get the impression that the sceptic feels that the integrity and compet-
ence of the investigator into E.S.P. must be doubted to an extent greater
than if the same investigator were tackling another subject. But even so,
can we ever get away from assumptions of integrity ? In " Thoughts
Through Space " it is recorded that Sir Hubert Wilkins' percipient posted
his remarkable, apparently telepathic impressions to three eminent men,
the same evening they were received, Sir Hubert being somewhere round
the North Pole at the time. But the postmark will have been on the envel-
ope, not the report, so the sceptic must presumably consider that the three
eminent men agreed to substitute later another report, based on Sir
Hubert's own diary, rather than that telepathy occurred. Dare we assume
that the officers of the S.P.R. would not do the same And on this grave
note of doubt may I, Sir, finally retire from this correspondence ?
Yours etc.,
Rosalind Heywood.
Sir,—Since the publication in the May, 1947, issue of Xhe^ Journal oixht case
of " Margaret Foote " received through Geraldine Cummins, further
valuable corroboration has come to hand. It will be recalled that, at the
time of writing, Mr " Donald X." was unable to verify that the second name
of the alleged communicator was Alice (page 42). Moreover, he was in-
formed by an old friend of " Marguerite's " that she did not die as stated by
Astor, in Kensington, N.Z. but in a neighbouring district.
On July 31st, 1947,
" Mr X " wrote :
" Tell Geraldine that I have found
out that " Marguerite Foote " did die in Kensington, N.Z.—the Kensing-
ton Marine Hospital it was, but in Kensington. Also, her middle name
was Alice which I did not know and at first could not verify. ..."
In this case, the memory of the alleged communicator was more accurate
than that of an intimate friend still in the flesh.
Yours faithfully,
E. B. GiBBES
P.S. May I take this opportunity of correcting a small error which crept
into the account published in the Journal, page 34. In the letter from
Mr " X " it is stated that " Marguerite " lived in Kensington, N.Z.
whereas, the word should have been died there.
Sir,—I noticed recently that in some of my dreams (which I am in the
habit of recording) my second name, Francis, is used, the context in each
case making it clear that the reference is to myself.
In the " A.G.P." multiple personality case, reported by T. W. Mitchell
{Proc. XXVI), the second name, Geraldine, was " forgotten " by the
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Research dec. 1947
primary personality, and also by the secondary, " Amelia," but remem-
bered by the tertiary " Amelia Geraldine ".
Writing in the Journal, Miss H. A. Dallas (July, 1929, and Nov., 1932)
and the Baroness de Kerkucs (Jan., 1933) both refer to cases in which
mediums have described persons (otherwise clearly identified) by their
second names.
All this seems to indicate that the second name, little used in ordinary
life, is sometimes appropriated by the subconscious mind. In the medium-
istic cases, this slightly strengthens the hypothesis of telepathy (which, as
is generally agreed, takes place between subconscious and subconscious) as
against chance coincidence of names, on the one hand, and, on the other, a
spirit-message from anything corresponding to the conscious mind of a
living person.
However, the evidence is scanty. I should be very glad to hear of any
other cases known to your readers.
Yours faithfully,
. G. F. Dalton
OBITUARY NOTICE
As we go to press we learn with deepest regret of the sudden death on
December 13th of Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., President of the Society, 1937-
1938 and a generous donor to our funds. An Obituary will appear in
Proceedings.
NOTICE
Reports of interesting psychic cases appear from time to time in the press.
Members who come across newspaper references that seem to call for
investigation would be rendering a valuable service by cutting them out
and posting them to the Research Officer.
1
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Ciradation atfiotigst Members and Associates only
January, 1948 •
'
Vol. XXXIV—No. 642
CONTENTS
PAGE
New Members - 146
Meetings of the Council - - - - - - -147
Annual Report for 1947 ...... i^y
Result of the Prize Offer to Physical Mediums - - - 153
Cases : Coincidence or Precognition? - - - - 155
An Apparently Precognitive Dream - - - 157
Correspondence - - - - - - . -160
Reviews ......... 165
NOTICE OF MEETING
A GENERAL MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
will be held at
Manson House, 26 Portland Place, W. i
on Saturday, 14 February 1948, at 3 p.m.
THE PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
- WILL BE DELIVERED
by Mr W. H. SALTER, M.A.
It is hoped that a large number of Members and Associates will be able to
attend the Meeting. Visitors also are cordially invited.
146 \ Jotirnal of Society for Psychical Research jan, 1948
DISCUSSION MEETING
The next meeting will be held at 6.30 p.mT on Thursday, 5 February 1948,
at 31 Tavistock Square, W.C. i, in the Society's Library.
Mr C. Mifelew will open a discussion on " Anticipated Reactions ".
NEV/ MEMBERS
{Elected 25 November 1947)
Ackland, Miss V., Maiden Newton, Dorchester, Dorset.
Baion, Miss A., 17 Nevern Road, London, S.\V. 5.
Bertrand, W.J. B., 163 Sheppey Road, Dagenham, Essex.
Binyon, Miss D. E., Newnham, Gubbins Lane, Harold Wood, Essex.
Cleobury, F. H., Ph.D., 30 Lancing Road, Orpington, Kent.
Dickerson, Miss R. A., 430 East Shore Road, Great Neck, N.Y., U.S.A.
Dumas, A., 25 Rue des Envierges, Paris (XX), France.
Dupree, Mrs G. F., Bella Vista, South Stoke, Bath, Somerset.
Edwards, H. D., The Deanery, Marlow-on-Thames, Bucks.
Gold, R. L., 25 Oval Road, Erdington, Birmingham.
Greengrove, Major G. F., Nuffield House, Piccadilly, London, W. i.
Howat, A. J., 50 Hillsborough Road, Bailleston, Lanarkshire.
Howell, Miss M. G., Langthorns Cottage, Little Canfield, Dunmow,
Essex.
Howson, Rev. Vincent, 14 Burleigh Street, Strand, London, W.C. 2.
Howson, Mrs V., 14 Burleigh Street, Strand, London, W.C. 2.
Hughes, G. E., M.A., West Grove, Penrhos Road, Bangor, Caernarvon-
shire.
Jeffrey, Clifton A. K., 46 Oakdene Road, Sevenoaks, Kent.
Lamerton, L. F., 73 Appach Road, Brixton Hill, London, S.W. 2.
Librarian, Manchester Psychical Research Institute, 38 Deansgate,
Manchester 3.
Loomis, Mrs M. W., 1149 Spruce Street, Winnetka, Illinois, U.S.A.
Manford, Mrs V. C, Stanhope Court Hotel, Stanhope Gardens, London,
S.W. 7.
Marduk, Prof. O. S., 222 Lower Circular Road, Calcutta, India.
Mole, A. C, The Grove, Pyrland, Taunton.
Pearson, F. F. A., Foley Manor, Liphook, Hants.
Raven, J. C, M.Sc, 20 Castle Street, Dumfries.
Saunders, H. de B., Wylderne, Bridge Street, Gt Kimble, nr Aylesbury,
Bucks.
Stewart, Mrs M. B., M.A., 17 St James's Square, Bath, Somerset.
Walker, A. H. B., 33 Parkside Drive, Edgware, Middx.
Wilson, W. Ker, D.Sc, 14 Handel Close, Canons Park, Edgware, Middx.
Yorke, Miss G. M., 256 Sydenham Road, Croydon, Surrey.
Student-Associates
Painter, J., Selwyn College, Cambridge.
Pretious, A. A., 62 Fremantle Road, Barkingside, Ilford, Essex.
JAN. 1948 Ajinual Report of the Council 147
{Elected 17 December 1947)
Baker, L. R. A., 95 Clitherow Avenue, Boston Manor, London, W. 7.
Cox, N. R., 172 Clarence Gate, Regent's Park, London, N.W. i.
Davy, Charles B., Boundary House, Bramshott Chase, Hindhead, Surrey.
James, Anatole, 17 Chester Street, Edinburgh 3.
King, L. E. W., 44 Acacia Road, Acton, London, W. 3.
Kirkpatrick, K. C. G., B.Sc, 8 Friedensgasse, Basel, Switzerland.
Longson, Mrs H. E., 22 Merton Rise, London, N.W. 3.
Mellor-Coutret, Mrs G. E., 19 Grosvenor Road, Chiswick, London, W. 4.
Middlekauff, J. P., 40 De Bell Drive, Atherton, Menlo Park, California,
U.S.A.
Rickman, John, M.D., 3 Berkeley Court, Baker Street, London, N.W. i.
Rowland, John, B.Sc, 16 The Close, Radlett, Herts.
Waters, Mrs D. P., 914 Chelsea Cloisters, London, S.W. 3.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 431st Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square, Lon-
don, W.C. I, on Tuesday, 25 November 1947, at 3 p.m. The President,
Mr W. H. Salter, in the Chair. The Minutes of the last Meeting of the
Council were read and signed as correct. Thirty new Members and two
Student-Associates were elected ; their names and addresses are given
above.
The 432nd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square Lon-
don, W.C. I, on Wednesday, 17 December 1947, at 5 p.m. The President,
Mr W. H. Salter, in the Chair. The Minutes of the last Meeting of the
Council were read and signed as correct. Twelve new Members were
elected ;
their names and addresses are given above.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR 1947
1 . The Council are again gratified to record a large increase in the mem-
bership of the Society. The number of new Members (166) and Student-
Associates (9) is much the largest for many years.
2. On the completion of his first year of work as Research Officer, the
Council confirmed Dr West in that position. He reports as follows :
The year has been more notable for the number of explorations carried
out, than for the wealth of positive results. As explained in an appeal to
members in the Journal for Oct. -Nov. 1946, the great barrier to research
at present is the scarcity of good material for investigation, a difficulty from
which it is believed other societies engaged in psychical investigation are
also suffering.
E.S.P. experiments, both qualitive and quantitative, have been pursued
steadily throughout the year. The results of some of these experiments
have been summarised in the Oct. -Nov. Journal, and more have been
completed since. The majority of the experiments have been carried out
with persons professing ability in the particular direction tested, but so far
148 '
Journal of Society for Psychical Resem-ch JAN. 1948
only one individual has shown any promise. This person does not appear
to be successful with cards, but is apparently able to locate a small object
placed inside one of a number of similar closed boxes. Further tests are in
progress, and are showing great promise.
A small series of E.S.P. tests has been carried out on subjects in the
hypnotic trance. So far as they go, these tests seem to confirm the theory
that psi faculties cannot be made to manifest by hypnosis if they are not
demonstrable when the subject is in a normal condition.
The mass telepathy tests with drawings, completed early in the year,
were reported in the Journal for May. The results were entirely null.
Recently, some of these drawings were divided—in a rough and prelimin-
ary manner—into categories of bold, expansive drawings and niggling
compressive types. The preliminary experiment tended to give some slight
confirmation of the Duke University experimenters' claims that expansive
and compressive drawings score significantly differently. The question
is being investigated further, and the services of an independent judge have
been secured who will score the drawings from a psychological point of
view. With the death of Mr Whately Carington, the original drawings from
all his experiments have been deposited with the Society by Mrs Carington.
If this line of investigation continues promising, we shall have ample
material to work on.
Very recently the Duke University experimenters have introduced a new
method of assessing displacement,^ measuring the consistency of the direc-
tion [i.e. +1 or - i) of the greater displacement in the run. This test,
applied to recent E.S.P. scores from S.P.R. experiments produced null
results.
There is little to report of positive interest in connection with mental
mediums. Enquiry in several quarters shows that there is at present a very
exceptional scarcity of good mediums. Various clairvoyant and trance
mediums have either come to the Society's rooms, or been visited by its
representatives, but without any striking results. Assessment of the work
of these mediums is made difficult by the vagueness of their statements.
This has been especially noticeable when proxy sittings have been attempted
and the mediums have not had the guidance of the age, sex and general
appearance of the sitter.
Psychometry experiments, begun with Mr Mayes in 1946, have been
continued throughout the year, and some fifteen mediums have been tested.
Although no evidence of veridical psychic impressions has so far been
obtained in these experiments, they have been most useful and instructive
in other ways, particularly in bringing into sharp relief the many problems
connected with annotating and assessing sittings. Mainly through the
effctfts of Mr M. T. Hindson, there has been prepared a catalogue of
mediumistic statements in which the items are classified according to
topics, e.g. description of character, descriptions of personal appearance,
etc. This catalogue will be made use of in the assessment of future proxy
sittings.
The main developments in connection with physical mediums have been
the acquisition of an infra-red image convertor (which enables the investi-
See Dr. Thouless's review of The Journal of Parapsychology for Sept. 1947,
which appears later in this issue.
JAN. 1948 Annual Report of the Council 149
gator to watch the activities of a medium at a dark seance), and the offer
—
by a group of interested S.P.R. members—of a prize of ^^250 for a demon-
stration of genuine physical phenomena. No physical phenomena have
been produced in response to this offer, which closed on December 31. A
report on the matter will appear in the Journal.
Many interesting spontaneous cases have been investigated during the
year. A few of these have been reported in Xht Journal, and the December
number contained reports of some recent hauntings. It is of course
impossible to give full reports of all the investigations, but detailed records
are kept in the Research files and can be consulted by any member on
application.
During the year the Society secured the cooperation of Mass Observa-
tion, the well-known organisation which specialises in the collection of
vital statistics. In November, a questionnaire was posted to 1500 people,
members of a panel of voluntary helpers from this organisation, which •
asked for details of any personal experiences of a psychic nature. The
question which headed the form was the same as the question which was
asked in the Census of Hallucinations carried out by the Society in its early
years. (See Proceedings, Vol. X). The response has been most gratifying,
and a more detailed report will appear in due course.'
It had been hoped, [vide last Annual Report), to investigate thoroughly
the alleged powers of Mr Harry Edwards, the well-known psychic healer.
The Research Officer suggested that arrangements should be made for " a
doctor on the spot to examine the patients ". This suggestion was declined
by Mr Edwards, who wrote :
" In my opinion it would be necessary to have several groups under close
observation so that the findings of the groups could be compared. My
reason for this is that, like investigations into physical phenomena, no one
group will accept the evidence of another but wish to make their particular
tests.
This difficulty will be more so with psychic healings, and will need the
cooperation of specialists in the class of disease investigated. ...
For example, if we could get the staffs of hospitals specialising in a stated
disease-family to submit a number of their cases and observe results. This
could be taken with several hospitals ..."
As the facilities required by Mr Edwards, although admirable in them-
selves, went far beyond what was available to the Society (or, for that matter,
beyond what is available to the majority of medical research workers), it
had to be pointed out to Mr Edwards that we were unable to comply with
these requirements, and investigation was discontinued. The British
Medical Association, which was informed of the position, did not consider
it proper to take any official notice of the matter, and thought that Mr
Edwards should be left to his own devices.
Of five patients who were under our supervision while being treated by •
Mr Edwards, no one showed any improvement.
At those of his demonstrations attended by the Research Officer or other
S.P.R. representatives nothing suggestive of a paranormal effect occurred.
Attempts to follow up some of the accounts of " miracle " cures which
often appear in the psychic press have likewise produced no real evidence
for the paranormal. Details are on record in the files.
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research JAN. 1948
While for the moment there is a regrettable dearth of positive results to
report, general interest in psychical research seems to be everywhere
increasing, and the enthusiasm shown by members of the Society is a great
encouragement. As workers multiply and our contacts expand, so we may
look forward to a proportionate rise in interesting results.
3. Other pieces of research carried out by members include the follow-
ing :
Dr Soal and his group have continued their experiments with Mrs
Gloria Stewart of Richmond. A preliminary report of some of the results
obtained will appear in his Myers Memorial Lecture, shortly to be pub-
lished.
The Council has printed a leaflet. Hints on Sitting with Mediums, which
is available to interested members on application.
Dr Soal has compiled a note on the procedure advisable in experimental
telepathy, of which some copies have been multigraphed and can be
borrowed by members intending, as it is hoped many will, to engage in
this form of research.
The Cambridge University Psychical Research Society, a report of whose
activities appeared in the Journal for October-November, is continuing
with an ambitious programme of research. A preliminary series of tele-
pathy tests using drawings has just been completed. They were long-
distance postal experiments carried out between Cambridge and a group of
percipients under the direction of Dr Tanagra, working in Athens. Other
recent work includes some " single trial " experiments, designed to take
maximum advantage of the comparatively high degree of success that
seems often to be associated with the very beginning of a series of card
guesses.
Also doing active work is a Psychical Research Society at King's College,
Durham. Two cases of haunting investigated by this group have been
reported in the Journal during the year, and we look forward to further
contributions.
4. Publicity. The second issue of the Pamphlet descriptive of the
Society's work, and originally printed in 1945, having been exhausted, a
further 2,500 copies are being printed.
Another pamphlet, entitled Telepathy and Allied Phenomena by Mrs
Heywood, with a section on experimental E.S.P. by Dr Soal, is in the Press,
and will shortly be issued. An Outline of the Society's history by the
President is also in the Press.
Pamphlets on physical phenomena by Mrs Goldney, and on the medium-
ship of Mrs Piper and Mrs Leonard by Mrs Salter and Rev. C. Drayton
Thomas are also in preparation.
The Council decided to hold in the Autumn four public lectures, parti-
culars of which are given under paragraph 15. The lectures were well
attended. As they were likely to raise many points of interest, it was
decided to hold a public Discussion Meeting at Caxton Hall in January at
which questions could be asked, and general discussion would be invited.
Members of the Society have given lectures before various organisations,
including the Societies for Psychical Research at Oxford, Cambridge, and
Durham Universities and at a recently formed Society in Manchester, to
which our Council wishes every success.
JAN. 1948 Annual Report of the Council
Numerous requests reach the Society from all parts of the country to
provide lecturers, and the Council endeavours to meet them as far as
practicable.
5. Changes on the Council. At the last Annual General Meeting the
Hon. Secretary reported with great regret the very serious illness of Mr
Whately Carington, who was a Council member of very long standing, and
had made distinguished contributions both to our research work and to the
literature of the subject. From this illness he never recovered, and by his
death on March loth the Council suffered a grievous loss.
To fill the vacancy thus created among the elected members the Council
appointed Mr Parsons, and to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Sir
Ernest Bennett, recorded in the Journal for January-Februaiy, they
appointed Miss Bosanquet.
Brigadier Firebrace, Dr A. J. B. Robertson, Mr R. Wilson and Professor
F. J. M. Stratton have been co-opted to the Council.
6. Presidency. Mr W. H. Salter was elected President for 1947.
7. Myers Memorial Lecture. Dr S. G. Soal was appointed to deliver the
Ninth Lecture in this series. He chose for his subject " The Experimental
Situation in Psychical Research ". The Lecture v/hich will shortly be
published, was delivered at Caxton Hall on the 21st November. The
Council are glad to learn that the Central Research Fund of London Uni-
versity has awarded a grant of £70 to Dr Soal for the continuation of his
research work, as described in his Lecture, and for the purchase of appara-
tus.
8. The Journal. During the current year Miss Bosanquet kindly under- .
took the post of Hon. Editor, notwithstanding her many other duties. To
her, and to Mrs Hejrvvood who has assisted her, the Council wish to record
their thanks.
Six numbers of Journal •wtre issued, one being a " public " number.
The Council hope to issue more " public " numbers in future, but rather
different contents are needed in an issue intended for the public from what
are suitable for private circulation among our members. This means a
good deal of planning, and for the present the Council think that the form
of literature most likely to interest readers, whom our Proceedings may not
reach, consists of the Pamphlets referred to in paragraph 4 above.
9. Donations. The Council wish to acknowledge with the warmest
thanks a further generous donation of ;£500 from Mrs Blennerhassett to the
fund that bears her name.
10. Library. The Council feel that the Society's financial position, if
the savings made during the war are taken into account, justifies them in
making an efl^ort to increase the number of books on the shelves, but at the
present time books suitable for the Library are hard to obtain.
We are glad to note a substantial increase in the number of books bor-
rowed by Members from the Library, the total number of books lent during
the year being 1,188.
11. The Combined Index. The Council congratulate Dr West on having
completed the compilation of a Combined Index for our Proceedings and
Journal since 191 3, when the last volume of the index was issued. The
new volume has been badly needed for a long time, but its issue has been
held up for various reasons : it is now in the Press. The- Council wish to
Journal of Society for Psychical Research JAN. 1948
thank Mr M. T. Hindson, Miss Watkins and others for help in checking
the index before it was sent to the printers.
12. Obituary. In addition to Sir Ernest Bennett and Mr Carington, the
Society has lost by death Dr Nicholas Murray Butler, and Professor Max
Dessoir, the two Senior Corresponding Members, and Lord Rayleigh,
President, 1937-1938.
13. Membership of the Society. During the year 166 new Members and
9 Student-Associates were elected. The total loss in members from deaths,
resignations and other causes, including 15 members resident in various
parts of Europe before the war with whom the Society has not been able to
establish contact since the war ended, was 57 Members and 14 Associates,
leaving a net increase of 105 in the total membership, which now stands at
869.
14. Publications. One Part of Proceedings was published during the
year. Part 173. Six numbers of the Journal, were issued, including one
available for sale to the public. «
The Secretary's sales to the general public amounted to ^83 178 and to
members of the Society £1^2 3 10 ; and £35 o 6 to members and the
public through the Society's agent in the United States.
15. Meetings. -
Public Lectures
19 Sep. " Psychical Research : Its Meaning and Methods " by Mr W. H.
Salter.
, 17 Oct. " Modern Agnosticism and Human Personality " by Professor
Henry Habberley Price.
21 Nov. " The Experimental Situation in Psvchical Research " by Dr S.
G. Soal. The Ninth F. W. H. MVers Memorial Lecture.
12 Dec. " The Phenomenology of Trance Mediumship " by Professor
C. D. Broad.
Private Meetings. -
•
9 Jan. " A Critical Review of the Published Work on Psycho-Kinesis
"
by Mr D. A. H. Parsons.
6 Feb. " The History of Psychical Research " by Mr W. H. Salter.
26 Feb. Annual General Meeting.
10 Apl. " The Spontaneous Phenomena of Psychical Research " by Mr
G. N. M. Tyrrell.
3 July " Experimental Extra-Sensory Perception " by Mr D. A. H.
Parsons.
8 Nov. " Victor Hugo's Experiences in Table-Turning " by Professor
D. Saurat.
Discussion Meetings.
26 Feb. " Some Recent Experiments in Psychometry " by the Research
Officer.
14 May " Psychic Phenomena in Indonesia " by Mr J. H. Bekker.
5 June " D. D. Home as a Study in testimony in relation to Physical
Phenomena " by Mrs K. M. Goldney.
16 June and 23 June. " Beyond Psychology " by Dr E. Graham Howe.
JAN. 1948 Result of Prize Offer to Physical Mediums 153
The Accounts for the year ended 31 December 1947 were not to hand in
time to be printed in this issue of the Journal : they will be printed in the
next issue.
THE RESULT OF THE PRIZE OFFER TO PHYSICAL
MEDIUMS
In May 1947, a group of S.P.R. members interested in the investigation of
physical phenomena decided to subscribe to an award of £250, to be given
to the first medium able and willing to demonstrate supernormal physical
effects. The offer closed on December 31st 1947.
The Council of the Society very kindly agreed to lend the services of
their Research Officer as final arbiter of the genuineness of the phenomena,
and to allow their seance room and infra-red telsecope to be used for the
purposes of the investigation. The Council must not, however, be held
responsible for any opinions expressed in the following account, which is
in fact the report of an entirely independent and private investigation.
A notice of the prize offer appeared in the Journal for June-July 1947,
and wide publicity was given to the matter in the psychic press. ^ Represen-
tatives of several spiritualist institutions who employ mediums (such as the
London Spiritualist Alliance, the Marylebone Spiritualist Association and
the Institute of Paranormal Psychology) were notified by letter. Various
prominent mediums were approached personally.
In spite of this widespread appeal, by the time the closing date arrived
only three mediums had responded, and none had succeeded in producing-
any phenomena.
This result lends strong support to the arguments of those persons who
contend that the claims of contemporary physical mediums and their
supporters are founded upon fraud and malobservation. It cannot be
argued that the test prevented the phenomena, since the mediums were
allowed to sit uncontrolled and in their own conditions. It really seems as
if the presence of the infra-red telescope, which obviates the cruder types
of fraud, puts paid to the mediums' whole performance.
It is instructive to note the reasons given by some prominent mediums
for declining to take up the offer.
Mrs Estelle Roberts (clairvoyante and direct voice medium) wrote :
" I am not interested in your offer of a prize for any demonstration of what
I believe to be a religious belief."
Mr Ronald Strong (direct voice and materialisation) and Mr Charles
Basham (materialisation) both appeared to agree to investigation, but
although frequently prompted, neither was ever able to fix a date.
Mr Ronald Cockersell (direct voice and materialisation) said he was not
interested in convincing S.P.R. investigators. Genuine phenomena could
not be guaranteed like " a hen laying an egg ".
Arnold Clare (direct voice) said he had periods when he could get no
phenomena, and we had asked him at such a time.
^ Notices appeared in Light, Prediction, Psychic Truth, Psychic News and The
Journal of Experimental Metaphysics.
^54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan. 1948
Hunter Selkirk and Alec Harris (materialisation) did not reply to our
letters.
Leslie Flint (direct voice) had to think it over, but never came to a
decision.
Mrs Helen Duncan (materialisation) was very definite in her refusal,
saying that she would not sit at the S.P.R., " for a million ".
Arthur Phillips (materialisation) was considering the offer when he was
exposed by other investigators, who captured a false beard. ( See Psychic
News 2 August 1947.)
As mentioned in the interim announcement in the September Journal,
Mr Frank Allen, an apport medium, was the first to take up the offer.
On 19 May 1947 the Research Officer was present at Mr Allen's house
circle, at which, during periods of complete darkness, " apports " of
flowers were obtained. The only noteworthy feature of the sitting was that
towards the end, Mrs Davies, wife of the medium's manager, remarked that
Mr X was the only sitter who had not received any flowers, and suggested
to a neighbour that she let him have some of hers. This incident took place
before the " guide " announced that there would be no more flowers.
On 28 May, Mr Allen came to the S.P.R. accompanied by three friends.
Before entering the seance room they were asked to step out of their own
clothes into garments prepared by the investigators. In these circum-
stances no " apports " were produced, and an ofl'er of further sittings v/as
not taken up.
After a great deal of persuasion and negotiation on the part of an enthusi-
astic member of the Society, Mrs D. M. Seccombe, a direct voice medium,
was prevailed upon to give us some sittings. To the first of these, on 25
August 1947, the medium came unaccompanied. She went into an alleged
trance and her " control " spoke, but there was no direct voice and no
physical eftects were produced. The only point of interest was that the
medium was seen (through the telescope) to lean over and whisper behind
the necks of adjacent sitters. The speeches made by the " controls " were
childish and without any evidential value. Mrs Seccombe came on three
other occasions, (28 August, 30 October and i November) each time
accompanied by some of her own friends, but no physical phenomena
occurred. The m.edium's friends said they could see various spirit lights
and luminous shapes which were not seen by the rest "of the sitters. The
telescope was switched off at times to make sure that it was not the cause
of the lack of phenomena.
The third medium, Mr William Roy, after a preliminary visit to inspect
the infra-red telescope, came for a sitting on 13 October 1947. He was to
bring with him his own circle of sitters, but on the day of the sitting he
informed us that they declined to accompany him. Mr Roy went into an
alleged trance and the " control " spoke, but no physical phenomena
occurred. Mr Roy declared himself satisfied with the conditions at the time,
and agreed to come again a fortnight later. However, he later cancelled
this appointment, on the plea of another engagement, and failed to give an
alternative date. On 12 December he was reminded by letter that the ofl^er
closed on 31 December. He replied that neither time-limits nor Prize
Money interested him, but gave one to understand that he might offer
himself to the S.P.R. for investigation in 1948.
JAN. 1948 Coincidence or Precognition? -
155
COINCIDENCE OR PRECOGNITION?
The following statements provided by two members of the Society are
examples of a kind of experience which appears to be not uncommon in
connection with unarranged and unexpected meetings with friends. Neither
of the contributors suggest that coincidence is ruled out, but the cases are
at least sufficiently interesting to be put on record. .
-
Case I. Mr Eric Cuddon's Experiences
In June, 1940, when serving in the R.A.F., I was stationed at Plymouth
and there met an old friend, Geoffrey Holt, who was serving in the Army.
I left Plymouth in July, 1940, and did not see or hear from Holt again until
the following incident :
In February, 1942, I was staying in London with my wife on 48 hours'
leave and we went to tea at Fortnum & Mason's. We sat at a table just
outside the entrance doorway to the large inner tea room. I suddenly
remarked that I wondered what had become of Geoffrey Holt from whom
we had not heard since I saw him in Plymouth in 1940. About two minutes
later a voice said, " Hello Eric ". I looked up to see Holt standing before
me. I was so astonished that for a moment I was speechless. He had
been having tea far inside the inner room where I could neither have seen
him nor heard his voice.
This incident much impressed me although on this occasion I attributed
it to pure coincidence. —
I did not hear from him again until the following incident occurred :
In June, 1943, my wife and I arranged to spend 14 days' leave exploring
the River Thames by punt and steamer, and stayed at the Grove Hall
Hotel, Twyford. A few days before leaving, during a night duty at my
Radar Station at Cricklade, Wilts, I had recounted the incident above
described, at Fortnum & Masons', to my Radar Operators and stated that I
should not be in the least surprised if I again met Geoffrey Holt during
my coming leave on the River.
On a Sunday morning during that leave we took a steamer from Henley
to Maidenhead in company with my cousin, Richard Cuddon, and his
wife, and when the steamer was in Hurley Lock I looked over the side.
There, in a punt, was Geoffrey Holt and his wife. They were staying at the
Compleat Angler Hotel, Marlow, on their honeymoon. Having arranged
a further meeting, I reboarded the steamer and immediately announced to
my wife and my cousin and his wife my conviction that we should meet
Maureen King at Maidenhead. As will be seen from the accompanying
statements, this prediction proved correct. At the time I made the predic-
tion, I said :
" I can't think why on earth I should say that." The last
time we had heard from this old friend, whose married name was and is
" de Carteret ", was about a year previously, when she was living near her
husband's Air Force Station in Lincolnshire. Geoffrey Holt and Mrs de
Carteret had never met and there was absolutely nothing in the way of
association of ideas which could have made me think of Mrs de Carteret
through having met Geoffrey Holt.
Eric Cuddon
156 Journal of Society for Psychical Research JAN. 1948
Mrs Eric Cuddon writes :
" I corroborate the incidents in February, 1943, and June, 1943, referred
to by my husband in the above statements, except his alleged statements to
his Radar Operators when I was not present."
Mr Hugh Richard Cuddon writes ;
" On a Sunday in June, 1943, my wife and I were in the company of my
cousin, Eric Cuddon, and his wife, Doris, on a pleasure steamer sailing from
Henley to Maidenhead. During this excursion, whilst the steamer was
waiting at a river lock, Eric saw and greeted a friend of his who was in a
smaller craft nearby. At about this time during the journey Eric stated
that he felt sure we should also meet that day a certain Maureen King—
a
person then unknown to me.
We continued our journey and disembarked at Maidenhead, and all four
in company walked along the riverside roadway. On reaching a restaurant,
the name of which I do not remember although I have some recollection of
its external appearance, Eric and Doris exclaimed their surprise at seeing
two ladies seated on a terrace in front of the restaurant. From the intro-
ductions which followed I learned that one of these ladies was Mrs de Car-
teret. It was only during the conversation which followed that I learned
further that Mrs de Carteret's maiden name was King and that she was in
fact the Maureen King whom Eric had expressed his certainty that we
should meet."
Mrs H. R. Cuddon writes :
" I well remember the events described above and completely agree with
what my husband has written."
Mrs de Carteret writes :
" I am the wife of Philip de Carteret and I have been a personal friend of
Eric Cuddon for many years. My maiden name was King.
I well remember a Sunday in June, 1943. I was at the time doing War
work in a factory at Maidenhead and was spending the day with my mother,
who was staying at the hotel facing the river near Boulter's Lock. At about
4 p.m. I was surprised to see Eric and his wife, who called to me from the
road as I was sitting in the front garden with my mother. He was in com-
pany with another man and woman whom he introduced as his cousin and
his cousin's wife, Richard and Betty Cuddon. They stated that Eric had
announced his conviction that they would see me at Maidenhead when on
board a steamer in Hurley Lock earlier in the afternoon.
The last time I had written to or otherwise communicated with Eric
or his wife was about a year previously when I was living in Lincolnshire
near my husband's Air Force Station. Neither my mother nor I had been
thinking of the Cuddons that day."
Mrs King writes :
" I clearly remember the incident mentioned above and corroborate the
statement signed by my daughter."
JAN. 1948 An Apparently Precognitive Dream 157
Case II. A Small Boy's Enquiries
The account which follows is of interest as being similar in kind to the
preceding case, but unfortunately the circumstances are such that full corro-
boration and investigation of details is impossible. The account is written
by a member of the Society who knew the people concerned very well.
The X family had two little boys of 6 and 3 years old. They also had a
friend, Y, who knew the children quite well, though he did not often see
them. He had an unfortunate habit of going off, at irregular intervals, on
drinking bouts ; and his mother, who was also a friend of the X family,
used, when he had been away too long, to ring up Mr X and ask him to
have a look for her son in his usual haunts, and see if he was all right. On
these occasions he was usually brought back to the X household, given
black coffee and aspirin, and put to sleep on the drawing room sofa before
being sent off to his family in a state of rather pink-eyed sobriety next
morning. The X children used to see him at breakfast.
This state of affairs went on at intervals for two years. After a time Mrs
X began to notice that whenever the younger boy said, " Where's Mr Y?
We haven't seen him for a long time", Mr Y's mother would ring up that
same evening ; and in due course Mr Y himself would be retrieved. Mrs
X even took to getting out the spare blankets in readiness for her guest
when the little boy made this enquiry.
Mrs X writes : "I fully corroborate all the statements in the above
account."
AN APPARENTLY PRECOGNITIVE DREAM
This case, sent to us by Mr H. Ballard Thomas, was accompanied by the
following letter :
Dear Sir,
I am not in a position to corroborate directly any of the facts
recorded in the accompanying statement, but since it is largely at my sug-
gestion that Mr Ballard Thomas has written his account I am glad to be
able to say something about two of the persons concerned, Mr Thomas
himself and Mr Bernard Spurry.
Both of these are students in the department in which I lecture ; I know
both well, and my acquaintance with Mr Thomas in particular goes well
beyond the usual contact between teacher and student. I can testify to the
complete integrity and the intellectual ability of both these men. Both are
Ordinands of the Church in ^Vales, and both rank among the best of the
students at present studying Philosophy in this College. Neither can be
suspected of anything in the nature of wilful mis-statement, and both have -
the ability and temperament necessary to guard against unintentional error.
I have not the slightest doubt that the accomipanying account is as accurate
a record of actual events as such a statement, which inevitably depends
largely on memory, can well be.
I shall of coarse be pleased to answer any questions you may care to ask
in this matter, if these are within my power to deal with.
Yours faithfully,
George E. Hughes, Lecturer in Philosophy,
University College of South Wales and Monmouthshire.
158 Journal of Society for Psychical Research JAN. 1948
Mr Ballard Thomas's Account
During the summer of 1946 I was in retreat at an English convent. In
the middle of the night of the 28th of August I awoke suddenly following
a very vivid dream. (I recall the date well for two reasons : (a) I made a.
brief reference to it in my diary {b) The following day was the Feast of the
Beheading of St John the Baptist, i.e. the 29th.) The exact details of the
dream ^vvere not very clear but a few points remained in my mind, viz. that
it occurred in a strange building (possibly a church) that it involved some
friends of mine whom I could recognise (a young deacon I knew—Rev.
Bruce Davies and two fellow ordinands of mine—T. Douglas Harris,
Bernard D. A. Spurry) ; that some confusion existed over the " ordina-
tion " of a priest of whom I had previously heard. It was the vividness of
the dream that impressed me most, and I felt sure that if those circum-
stances would ever actually occur I would be able to recognise them
immediately. I made a brief mention of the fact to an aunt of mine who
was residing at the Convent at the same time and also the Sister Joyce
Hilda. I wrote in my diary : "I wonder if anything will come of this queer
dreatn about " ordination and Bruce ".
It was on Advent Sunday following, i December 1946, that the event,
occurred again, but this time in actual fact. I went with my friend
Bernard Spurry to St Luke's Church, Canton, Cardiff (where the Rev.
Bruce Davies is a curate) to attend a Sung Mass at 1 1 a.m. On arrival at
the church we were joined by T. Douglas Harris (N.B. we had not pre-
viously arranged to meet there). When the service was over, the three of
us waited in the porch to see Mr Davies. He joined us there and in a few
minutes I realised that a situation which was already familiar to me was
forming itself about me. The group in the porch now consisted of the
following people : Rev. Bruce Davies, T. D. Harris, B. D. A. Spurry, Rev.
Fr Reid (Vicar), Mrs Reid (his mother), Mr Williams, an ordinand from
St Michael's College, Llandaff. (These three last-named people I had
never met before, but I was absolutely sure that I had seen them—in a
dream.) The conversation turned to the subject of a priest whom I knew
who was being transferred to another parish. I was absolutely certain then
that this was the dream which I had had before—though I could not quite
remember when at that moment. In a flash I was aware of the way in
which the conversation would develop and the most urgent thing in my
mind was the fore-knowledge that in the discussion that would follow the
Mr Williams (whom I had not previously met) would refer to the " ordina-
tion " of this priest in mistake for his " induction ". I felt sure that I
would like to break the spell (if it may be so termed) by making some
deliberately irrelevant remark myself, but I found that for some reason
which I will in no way attempt to explain I was quite unable to say or do a
thing. It felt like some kind of mental paralysis, and I admit that I did feel
quite alarmed at the whole affair. The conversation developed exactly as
I " knew " it would, and immediately the mistake which I had already
anticipated had actually been made, it was as if the entire " set-up " '
faded away and resolved itself into ordinary existence once again. On the
way home I told Bernard Spurry of what had happened and also checked
up in my diary the date of the actual dream.
JAN. 1948 An Apparently Precognitive Dream "
159
Observations. "
1 . Although previously I had been unable to recall the actual details of
the dream, immediately the correct setting was built up around me I was
able to tell quite clearly the exact things that would happen, though I was
quite powerless to change that course of events.
2. The dream itself was one of unusual force, because whereas I am
conscious of having dreamt most nights I am never awakened by them.
3. The only other time on which I have experienced a thing of this kind
was when as a boy at school I dreamt a Geometry lesson so vividly that the
following day I w^as able to forestall the master with an irrelevant remark
he was about to make—to his great consternation of course. The incident
is now too long ago to be recalled in detail.
I hereby declare that this is as true and accurate an account of the
incident as I am able to recall.
(Signed)
- H. Ballard Thomas
>
The following corroborative statements were enclosed :
I hereby declare that I was present at St Luke's Church canton on the
occasion referred to above, and that the meeting mentioned did take place.
I have no recollection, however, of the Rev. Fr Reid's being there, but this
may be due to lapse of memory. On the way home Mr Thomas did men-
tion the experience he had had.
Signed,
. Bernard D. A. Spurry
•
ID November 1947
I hereby declare that I have seen the diar}- entry referred to above and
that the statement made is correct.
(signed)
Philip A. C. Bowman
Mr Thomas added :
" Sister Joyce Hilda is unable to recollect my having told her [about the
dream] although she says I may well. have done [so]."
Research Officer's Comment.
This interesting case might have a normal explanation. The dream as
remembered before the event was to the effect that Mr Thomas and three
friends would be having a conversation in a strange building on the subject
of " ordination ". This actually happened some three months later. In
view of this lapse of time, and the commonplace circumstances of the pre-
monition, chance coincidence would give a reasonable explanation.
While the dream was apparently being fulfilled, Mr Thomas recollected
a lot more details, and had a definite feeling that he knew what was going
to happen next, although something seemed to prevent him from speaking
up. This could have been an example of the very common illusion of
deja vu, in which the mechanism of recognition is not working properly,
and the subject experiences a false sensation of reliving something which
i6o Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan. 1948
has happened once before. The sHght chance resemblance of the actual
situation to the circumstances of the dream may have been the precipi-
tating cause of the illusion.
Although the experience of deja vu is generally regarded as illusory, so
far as I know it has never been investigated with a view to detecting any
true precognitive element. In view of this and similar cases, such an
investigation might be well worth while. If there are any members of the
Society who frequently have this feeling of deja vu, would they please get
in touch with me.
CORRESPONDENCE
Sir,—While we acknowledge the entertainment value of the account in the
November Journal of Mr Cuddon's experiment with pendulums, we are
puzzled as to what it is supposed to prove. In his last two paragraphs, Mr
Cuddon seems to suggest the absurd idea that he has proved that the pen-
dulums could not be moved by the power of thought alone. That they
could not is what any sensible person would expect, but, whether this is the
case or not is plainly not proved by Mr Cuddon's experiment. The fact
that I might be able to convince a sufficiently credulous audience that I was
balancing a pencil on my finger tip when in reality I had stuck it there with
a piece of cobbler's wax would not prove that no one could balance a pencil
on his finger tip. Perhaps Mr Cuddon's woman doctor and " apparently
intelligent man " knew of Dr Winther's experiments in which movement
of pendulums " by the power of thought alone " apparently takes place.
There seems no logical reason why their opinions should have been altered
by Mr Cuddon's demonstration.
On the other hand Mr Cuddon does seem to have succeeded in demon-
strating that if you make false statements to people some of them will
believe you. We have no doubt that this is true although perhaps not
altogether novel. It would seem that the majority of Mr Cuddon's audi-
ence had a mistaken opinion as to the relative likelihood of two improbabi-
lities : (i) that the pendulums were moved by spirits, (ii) that the experi-
menter, the Research Officer of the Society and other persons taking part
were deceiving the audience. One may also conclude that, if pressed to do
so, many people will form positive opinions on insufficient grounds. The
evidence for this is indeed wider than Mr Cuddon seems to realise since
those who concluded that the movement of the pendulums was due to
pushing (voluntary or involuntary) had also formed a positive opinion on
insufficient grounds since the conditions of the experiment were not such
as to enable an onlooker to determine what was the cause of movement of
the pendulums. The right answer to Mr Cuddon's question was obviously
" I don't know ", but apparently the audience were not allowed to give this
answer.
Yours faithfully,
R. H. Thouless
B. P. WiESNER
JAN. 1948 Correspondence 161
Sir,—I thoroughly enjoyed reading the trenchant criticism by Drs
Thouless and Wiesner of my Report in the last issue of a simple experiment
with Pendulums demonstrated to a small audience at the headquarters of a
now unhappily defunct Society.
I regard it as a compliment that men so eminent in the field of Psychic
Research should have thought so trivial a matter worthy of such incisive
analysis and I trust they will not regard it as presumptuous on my part when
I say that I am in complete accord with their observations with regard to
the negative result of the demonstration insofar as any matter of proof is
involved.
I am also most happy to resolve their puzzlement—the demonstration
was never intended to prove anything and hence it is scarcely surprising
that, when my Report is subjected to the searching analysis of scientific
method, it is found that in fact nothing was proved. It is rather like using
an Atom Bomb to destroy a Doll's House!
What I did set out to do and what I believe I successfully accomplished
was to impress upon my audience the need for the greatest caution before
attributing to a paranormal cause that which might be due to a normal
cause.
In this connexion I wanted them to realise that they should employ their
critical faculties to the same extent when they had complete confidence in
the demonstrator as when he might be unknown to them.
Incidentally I think it would be more accurate to describe the statements
which I made to the audience as " misleading " rather than " false
"
though no doubt the moralist would equally condemn both.
If my recollection is accurate I believe some persons abstained from
voting so some of them at least mav have come to a correct decision, namely,
" I don't know."
It should be made clear that Dr West was assisting me as a personal
friend and not in his official capacity as Research Officer of the Society for
Psychical Research.
Finally, may I venture to express the hope that neither Dr Wiesner nor
Dr Thouless may ever be misled to conclude, through misplaced belief in
the lack of guile of a person whom they may be investigating for the pur-
pose of establishing evidence of paranormal cognition, that such powers are
exhibited by such person when, if they v/ere to apply the same searching
and valuable analysis as they have honoured me by directing towards my
Report they might be led to a different conclusion.
Yours faithfully,
Eric Cuddon
Sir,—Mr Cuddon's experiment with an audience which was decribed
in the November issue, was not designed to prove anything in con-
nection with the movement of pendulums, but was designed to bring home
to his audience, by a vivid and telling little demonstration, a lack of bal-
anced judgment in those who glibly postulated the paranormal at work.
Neither w'as there any question of real deception, since the audience
was expressly given alternatives to select from, one of which was that the
movement of the pendulums was caused by the table being pushed by Mr
Cuddon and his accomplices. Some " stage misdirection " was immedi-
l62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research JAN. 1948
ately resolved when the demonstration had effected its object, and the
audience was given the facts.
Of course, " I don't know " was the final answer to Mr Cuddon's ques-
tion, as Drs Thouless and Wiesner say. But the audience had been asked
to state what they thought was the cause of the pendulums' movements.
What were the facts? How should the audience have argued? Surely, as
follows :
(1) They knew nothing about the movement of pendulums (it is safe to
hazard this for the majority of those present on that occasion).
(2) They were not controlling the experiment and therefore could not be
sure of the experimental conditions.
(3) Normal pushing by the experimenters was one possibility expressly
suggested to them.
(4) Mr Cuddon had never, to their knowledge, been credited with para-
normal powers before, nor had his helpers.
(5) Paranormal faculty is very, very rare.
(6) Even when it is possessed, one cannot produce it on any given
occasion, still less at a given moment of time.
These considerations, particularly the last two, should obviously have
led the audience to postulate a normal explanation in preference to psi, as
the answer to Mr Cuddon's question. Instead, a majority of those voting
showed a readiness to accept the hypothesis of movement of pendulums by
Spirit Guides as easily as if this were a recognised everyday occurrence, and
they thus displayed an entire lack of balanced judgment.
I am astonished that Drs Thouless and Wiesner should allude to Dr
Winther's experiments as ones in which the movement of pendulums by
the power of thought alone " apparently takes place ". There have been
none, I think, to which very serious consideration should be given, i.e., none
reaching the standard of experimental conditions required in the past by
our Society. Furthermore, reports have lately reached this Society from a
responsible quarter repudiating Dr Winther's views and questioning the
bona fides of the medium with whom his pendulum experiments took place.
Knowledge of his experiments should not for a moment be allowed to
weigh in the balance such considerations as those enumerated above.
If v/e can consider that the existence of paranormal faculty has been de-
monstrated, at least let us always bear in mind that its demonstrable occur-
rence is exceedingly rare (in this country at least!) and that only when all
normal possibilities have been exhaustively excluded is it proper to pos-
tulate the paranormal—not only on paper but in one's own mind. To allow
oneself to drift into an undiscriminating attitude of mind and to proceed as
if normal or paranormal explanations were equally possible, not only
relaxes the mental discipline which is so vitally necessary in psychical
research, but discredits the psychical researcher's reports of those very
rare occasions when, it would seem, experimental conditions were all that
could be desired and all possible normal explanations failed to account for
the phenomena observed.
Yours etc.,
•
K. M. GOLDNEY
JAN. 1948 Correspondence 163
Sir,—I have read with interest the letters contributed to the December
Journal by Mrs Heywood, Mr RawclifFe and Mr Proctor. It is my belief
however that Mr Proctor is wrong in supposing that scientific men as a
whole are prepared to accept telepathy on the strength of a few water-
tight experiments. According to his predisposition to believe or the
reverse an individual scientist might be convinced by seeing such an
experiment or on the other hand suspect that he had been hoaxed by a
party of tricksters or conjurors.
It is, I submit, not the "perfect " experiment that science is waiting for but
the winning of experimental control over the phenomena which will enable
almost anyone to carry out a successful experiment in telepathy. Until
this stage is reached I feel certain that telepathy will remain a dubious
and unwelcome intruder into the scientific domxain no matter how many
fraud-proof and fool-proof experiments we devise. Psychical researchers,
therefore, instead of organising fraud-proof experiments, would do a
better service to their subject by making concentrated efforts to discover
what are the essential bodily and psychological conditions which favour
the emergence of the telepathic impression. Above all we want research
into the personality factors which are associated with possessors of the
psychic gift. We require reliable psychological tests which will enable
us to separate the psychics from the non-psychics. The work initiated
by Dr Humphrey in this connection may prove more important than all
the water-tight experiments. If successful, it will need no other justifica-
tion than the results themselves and the increased experimental control
these results may give us over the extra-sensoiy faculty.
Once we are able to tell the scientist how to demonstrate telepathy for
himself we need bother no more about witnesses and fool-proof tests.
Let us get hold of the right end of the stick and aim at the right objectives.
Mr Proctor's ciiteria for accepting or rejecting experimental evidence
while of value seem to me somewhat dogrnatic and narrow. For instance,
he requires odds against chance of " a million to one ". On that estimate
Mr Whately Carington's picture-guessing experim.ent would surely suffer
rejection at Mr Proctor's hands, slice the odds only amounted to a few
thousands to one. Even the sceptical Coover admitted that odds of fifty
thousand to one would satisfy him as evidence for telepathy. (And
curiously Professor (now Sir Cyril) Burt demonstrated quite clearly that
an " over all " estimate of Coover's card-guessing experiments did provide
odds against chance of about fifty thousand to one!)
On the other hand a distinguished mathematician known to me as a
hard-bitten materialist remarked a few weeks ago that " even though Soal
has obtained odds of lo^s to i against chance he is not justified in claiming
that the effects are not due to chance. However great the odds, chance
may have produced the results." And logically of course I am not
justified. The mere fact that we possess no better criterion than a statis-
tical one should be an incentive towards getting more experimental
control.
Mr Proctor seems to treat the phenomenon of extra-sensory cognition
as if it were an ordinary physical phenomenon ; Mrs Heywood does not
fall into this error. Mr Proctor apparently assumes that if telepathic
phenomena occur in the presence of A, B, C and the sensitive S they ought
164 Journal of Society for Psychical Research JAN. 1948
to occur in the presence of D, E, F and S. If telepathy were a pliysical
or even a conscious mental phenomenon the assumption would probably
be justified. But everything seems to point to the assumption that tele-
pathy is due to the collaboration of two or more subconscious minds. We
do not know enough about the influence which the minds of the observers
have on the production of telepathy to justify the assumption that given S
it does not matter who A, B, C are. In demanding that it should be poss-
ible to obtain results with " almost any experimenter " Mr Proctor may
be asking for what is impossible in our present state of ignorance.
Telepathy may well depend upon delicate psychological adjustments
which may be upset when there is a too sudden or radical change in the
personnel. Again it is the almost universal experience of investigators
that even the best telepathic subjects fall off in their performance after a
longer or shorter period and often appear to lose their faculty altogether.
Professor Chester Kellogg argued that a man who has learned to play the
violin does not suddenly and mysteriously lose his skill ; therefore if a
telepathic percipient suddenly loses his power there must be something
fishy about it. But the analogy between a consciously acquired skill and a
faculty like telepathy that is not under conscious control may be altogether
misleading and the comparison may not be justified. Instead of dictating
to Nature it would be wiser to seek patiently to understand her ways.
Instead of bemoaning the fact that extra-sensory phenomena do not fulfil
our expectations based on our experience of sensory phenomena let us
try to discover what laws they do obey. But if we concentrate all our
energies in trying to convince sceptics who do not want to be convinced
of the existence of E.S.P. we shall succeed neither in converting the
sceptics nor in making the discoveries essential for future progress.
In conclusion we must not insist that because one sensitive has produced
a particular type of phenomena another can be found who is able to
produce almost identical results. Each psychic may have his own pattern
and as Dr Osty once remarked there may be as many kinds of telepathy
as there are telepathic subjects. Basil Shackleton produced certain dis-
placement phenomena of a special type. It is true that so far no sensitive
has produced quite the same effects but nevertheless both backward and
forward displacement have been observed both in this country and in
America. C. E. Stuart found highly significant evidence af backward and
forward displacement in his picture-guessing tests. In a letter to Nature
about two years ago Mr Arthur T. Oram published a brief account of a
highly significant (-1) displacement (precognitive) which he found in
experiments with playing cards. At the time of publication Mr. Oram
was unaware of the experiments of Mrs Goldney and myself. Mr Proctor
therefore is in error in supposing that there has been no independent
verification of the phenomenon of displacement.
I heartily agree with Mr Rawcliffe that certain papers and articles
published of late years in both the Journal and the Proceedings are not
likely to enhance our reputation in the eyes of the scientific world. For
the Society to alternate pieces of sound investigation with papers of a
wretchedly inferior quality is, I believe, a harmful policy.
Yours, etc.
S. G. SOAL
J.\N. 1948 Reviews
REVIEWS
The Journal of Parapsychology, No. 3, Vol. XL, September 1947.
The Editorial by Dr Rhine gives a short account of the excursion into
parapsycholog)' made by the late Dr Pierre Janet in 1885-6.
Miss Betty Humphrey has an account of an experiment in which two
different sets of dice were thrown simultaneously with the aim that one set
should give a high score on the one face while the other should give a low
score on that face. The necessary precautions against bias were taken and
a significant difference was found between the scores of the two sets sug-
gesting that the subject could score in both directions at once. Apparently,
however, the experimenter allowed herself some freedom in deciding
which aim to adopt in each series of experiments since she speaks of decid-
ing in advance which series she would work on. This freedom seems an
objectionable feature of experimental design since positive results may be
due to precognition.
An interesting review" of the evidence for dowsing by Miss MacMahan
comes to the conclusion that the evidence for extra-sensory capacity
amongst some people for detecting hidden objects and water is strong,
although the author considers that further rigorous scientific tests are
necessar}' before this can be considered an established fact.
There is a further discussion by Dr Pratt of the restricted area of a PK.
series in which positive results are obtained, with the important practical
implication that it may be possible to design series in such a way as to
reduce the part in which positive results are obtained. There are indica-
tions that the optimal design from this point of view may not be the same
for different subjects.
In the last article of this number of the Journal, Edward Bindrim de-
velops a new method of detecting displacement effects. Whately Caring-
ton and Soal have reported cases where failure to hit the target card in
E.S.P. experiments is accompanied by a significant tendency to hit some
other card such as the one ahead. Bindrim is concerned with cases where
there is neither a significant tendency to hit the target card nor the one
ahead, yet some psi effect is indicated by the fact that in both halves of each
set of twenty-five guesses there is evidence of a tendency to displacement
in the same direction. While the significance is not high, there is enough
to provide strong evidence of a real relationship between direction of dis-
placement in two halves of series of guesses through a pack which is deserv-
ing of attention as one of the directions in which a psi effect may be found
in series of card guesses in which there is no significance in the total score.
R. H. T.
The Complete Prophecies of Nostradamus, Translated Edited and Interpreted.
By Henry C. Roberts. New York 1947 (Crown Publishers).
Michel de Notredame was born at St. Remi in Provence in 1503. He
studied philosophy and the humanities at Avignon, and took a medical
degree at ]\Iontpelier in 1 529. At Aix and Lyons he worked conscientiously
during an epidemic of plague.
In 1555 he published, at Lyons, under the pseudonym of Nostradamus,
Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan. 1948
a book of rhymed prophecies entitled Centuries, which soon secured him
the notice of Catherine de Medici. In 1558 he pubhshed an enlarged
edition, dedicated to the King of France. The early fulfilment, or seeming
fulfilment of some of his predictions, brought him augmented fame ;
Charles IX named him physician in ordinary, and his reputation remained
high to the day of his death in 1566.
From the time of the publication of the Centuries, in 1555, up to the
present age, an enormous literature has gathered upon the subject of
Nostradamus's prognostications. In 1605 the complete text of his quat-
rains was collected, based upon the Lyons edition of 1568, and this 1605
text is in the possession of the British Museum, together with earlier but
incomplete editions. In 1672 an English translation was made by Theo-
philus de Garencieres, and printed in London, with interpretations supplied
by the translator.^ It is at this point that the " higher criticism " of
Nostradamus may be said to begin.
Two hundred and seventy-five years later, Mr H. C. Roberts, of New
York, discovered that no complete " English edition " (by which he prob-
bably means no complete text with English translation) had been pub-
lished in the intervening years. Having procured a copy of the 1672 text,
" at an almost prohibitive price ", he has reproduced it, and published it
with his own translation and interpretations. This edition will be referred
to as the 1947 text.
The value of Nostradamus to the psychical researcher lies in the possi-
bility that he may have been a precognitive percipient, and, if we are to
form a sound judgment upon this question, an accurate text is a sine qua
non. Apart from one or two inaccuracies, for which the printer may well
have been responsible,'^ Mr Robert's reproduction of the 1672 text is
impeccable, but what he could not possibly have known (since the text of
1605 was not available to him) is that the 1672 text is itself far from infal-
lible ; and thereby hangs a tale.
In the reliable edition of 1605, we read :
[X, 40.] Le jeune nay au regne Britannique,
Qu'aura le pere mourant recommande,
Icelny mort lonole donra topique,
Et a son fils le Regne demande.
By 1672 LONOLE has become Londre, and Mr Roberts, of course, claims
the prophecy for the abdication of Edward VIII. Let us examine another
instance. The prophecy which made the reputation of Nostradamus, ran :
[I, 35.] Le lion jeune le vieux surmontera,
En champ bellique par singulier duelle.
Dans cage d'or les yeux lui crevera ;
Deux classes une ;
puis mourir mort cruelle.
In fact, a young Scottish knight, in tournament with Henry II, acci-
dentally put out his eye and pierced his brain ;
and, by 1672, " les yeux."
1 This text is to be found in the Library of the S.P.R. It is unreliable.
2 E.g.
—" La parte solus " for " le part solus "; " La jeune nay " for " le jeune
nay ". In each case the meaning is altered.
JAN. 1948 Reviews 167
accordingly became " I'cril ", while " classes " turned into " playes
"
Consequently, anyone reading the text of 1947, which, as we have seen, is
based upon that of 1672, will take a rosier view of the great prophet than his
own words warrant.
If this were the only fault that could be found in the text of 1947, we
could hold Mr Roberts almost guiltless, since 1672 was the only source he
was able to consult. There is, however, another requisite, at least for those
who are unable to read i6th century French ; and that is an accurate
translation. In this respect, in a few instances, Mr Roberts errs badly. He
translates " alus ", a meaningless word, as " All U.S.", and here, surely,
he confuses translation with interpretation. Another example of fanciful
translation lies in his rendering of " Raypoz " by " positive ray ".
If his translation is occasionally influenced by his imagination, his inter-
pretations are the sport of vagrant fancy. The ambassador who was sent
in the small ship and repulsed by unknown men is, of course, Hess ; the »
great lion, pulled down by Caesarous forces, is, of course, Winston Chur-
chill. The notes abound with references to Hitler, Mussolini, the blitz,
and the atomic bomb. If a reader of the text of 1605 might well wonder
" whether there is anything in all this ", a reader of the interpretative notes
of 1947 might be excused for believing that Nostradamus was the greatest
prophet who had ever lived, or was ever likely to live. To the errors
of a vitiated text are superadded those of a fanciful translation ; and both
sets are, as it were, subsumed and glorified in a fantastic interpretation.
It is fatally easy to make a prediction fit the facts. In Mercure de France,
of 15 December 1932, there was an amusing example, couched in that faint
irony of which the French are masters, of how prophecies can be made to
correspond with later events. The writer quotes a mediaeval prophecy to
the effect that, if Christmas day falls on a Friday, children will die, there
will be battles between Christians, pilgrimages will come to a bad end, and
great terrors will threaten princes, all in the following year. He points
out that, in 193 1, Christmas day did in fact fall on a Friday, and that, in
1932, infant mortality increased and President Doumer was assassinated.
He suggests that the fights between " Christians " may apply to the South-
American war, and that the unfortunate fate of pilgrimages may, in modern
times, find a counterpart in fatalities among pedestrians, caused by auto-
mobiles.
It is precisely this kind of reasoning of which Mr Roberts is guilty.
Since the whole subject of precognition is still sub judice, we should do well
to bear his technique in mind in our appraisal of dreams—and statistics ;
for the object of this review is to point a moral, where others have seen fit
to adorn a tale.
B. S.
'Dr Mesmer. Nora Wydenbruck. London (Westhouse), 1947.
A lively inaginative reconstruction of episodes in the career of the cele-
brated Dr Mesmer, based on facts and written like a novel. It reminds us
that Mesmer was a brilliant pioneer in the art of cure by suggestion.
Although not without failings, he was no charlatan but an enthusiast who
suftered for his convictions. It is hard for the psychical researcher to doubt
that in the course of his work Mesmer witnessed phenomena of a tvpe with
1 68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research JAN. 1948
which we are familiar today. These led him to the conclusion, published
in 1799 at the age of 65, that man possesses " an interior sense which is in
connection with the whole of the universe and which might be considered
as an extension of sight ", and that he is gifted with " a sensitivity by which
he can be en rapport with the beings who surround him, even at great
distances ..."
Mesmer's theories of animal magnetism and the universal fluid were
formulated within the mental framework of his time and will be read with a
smile by the scientist of today ; but they may be a useful reminder that
attempts to bring the facts of psychical research within the mental frame-
work created by rationalist dogma may cause equal amusement to the
scientist of tomorrow. The book also reminds us of the fascinating ques-
tion as to whether the remarkable cures of a Mesmer, a Coue or a psychic
healer are due solely to suggestion, or whether, as is claimed by some,
transference of an unknown factor can on occasion take place from specially
endowed agents to their patients. * .
"
R. I. 11.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private nature
of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made without the
previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of the Journal in
1884, much of the material appearing in it has been contributed on the
definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated on the cover, issued " For
private circulation among Members and Associates only ". The Council
hope that all Members and Associates will continue to co-operate with
them in maintaining this privacy.
_ JOURNAL OF THE-
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulation amongst Members and Associates only
February, 1948 ... Vol. XXXIV—No. 643
CONTENTS
' • PAGE
New Members - - - - - - - - 169
.\nnual Accounts - - - - - - - 170
Meeting of the Council - - - - - - 175
Private Meeting - - - - - - - - 175
Emergence of an apparently Pseudo-Communicator - 175
Correspondence - - - - - - - - 177
Review - -- -- -- -- 183
NEW MEMBERS
Arnold, James F., 902 Pine Street, Winnetka, Illinois, U.S.A.
Benjamin, Dr Alva, 1 1 Welbeck House, 62 Welbeck Street, London, W. i.
Davie, Paul C, 26 Halsey Street, London, S.W. 3.
Dundas, Miss I., 6 Strathearn Place, London, W. 2. ,
•
Frost, G. B., 225 Bellegrove Road, Welling, Kent.
Hawkins, Peter, Caldonia, Gunters Lane, Bexhill-on-Sea, Sussex.
Hearn, Miss I. R., 7 Powis Square, London, W. 1 1
.
Holmes, Mrs A. M., The Row, Barrow-on-Trent, Derby.
Hone, Mrs M. E., 122 Beaufort Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Kehlmann, William H., 2432 Ocean Avenue, Brooklvn 29, New York,
U.S.A.
Mann, MisS B. P., 13 Ashdown Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Maria, Rene, 16 Bahnhofstrasse, Zurich, Switzerland.
McConnell, Dr Robert A., 151 Center Avenue, Emsworth, Pittsburgh 2,
Penna., U.S.A.
Mifelew, Chan, 3a Cumberland Court, London, W. i.
Schul, Israel, P.O.B. 11 19, Haifa, Palestine.
Snape, Rev. H. C, Skelton Rectory, Penrith, Cumberland.
Turner, R. C, 25 Tintern Avenue, Flixton, Manchester. . ,
Underwood, A. P., 8 Westholm, Letchworth, Herts.
Van Rijn, B. P. A., Bezuidenhout 127, The Hague, Holland.
Whiteman, Miss W. E., 17 Gt Cumberland Place, London, W. i.
U
l-H
O
o
(M cot- M
CO X
o
"iO b
50 !J O g
^ =o
;
-5 50
•A
'A
&3
a,
'A
2 „ a
:^ «^
^ ^ til
«3m
ft
D
w
<
rv
s
H
<
«
w
2;
a
3j £
O r-l
-+
CO CO
53
l'2
ft
:z;
o
o
w
w
o
<
t/3
-* o o o
s § J
s ^ t 55
s « S I
^•5 esq
>, , , .
^ ' '
0 '-O 01
0 1-^ O] '1 0
0 -t* 0 OJ :o
(M 0 CO CO X
CO
•A
0 S -J
1 -.S
|S|
o „ , . ,
5-1 ' ' - '
riTJ -O 30
—
<
t- = -^
-o X
—
^
3 »
S5
3 O X « OX
7: 71 L-5
o wo
c
I—
i
. O
•
73
3 t/^ ^
111
'S'w -2
s s e
S 5j
^
^ a a
19
»' •
o MO N
SO O o
CO O Ci
l> 00
03000 5rt
v.
o
aS ? ^
.i
J-
t.
^ S S S S S
o
IS
I
: as
* C O -t* C ?1 >—i — —'
L* C -1" Lf^ CO
o -t o c -H L"^ X X i>
-T .-H t"- L-r -N -t< -M — n -H
O O O O f-H
N CO iTi i-H l>.
CO i-H
-1" Lf^CO
o ;c X
>—( 1—( r-(
CO CO
1^ CO
01 CO uO W
.
2 g,
.
1^
6q c
5J I—
I
1
^ 't=- -jr.
S 5" ^"f* ^ «
, . .
o
g
8
M V. - ^ 71 ;^ yj
ft, o a a
^ t- o
5
a; a.
/
o >
^ G C3
3
I 1i
o
o
s
a:
\n
X
,832 U3
«5_
00
f-H CD ^ ^ t4l
<M
- 3
J- C3 05
I
•S3 3
•S-S
oo o
w o o
,029
500
o
3 '
J=
•2 P.
CO ,
^
a?
^ p.
S o
i2
a «
a
05
05
s a »
2 05
05
>
^ O
^ 05 O) 05
p-'ga
"t: CU flJ 4J
X C-.
GO <N
CO u-^ lO •*
00_ 00 to rH -1
oo" r-T
0_ 05^ (M 1 1
=+)
SSt+H T-l O
SO ^ o
-r 05 S hS '
s ? a o
s s
= 3 s s s
g 5 "-^
ri3 ^
a
'
o t; =
>--3
3 2
I 3
^ c w ^ i —
o w ^ — "
TO CI
10
'8 cc
e
S
1
<)3 3
:S C ^ =^
? -S ^ » +3
O
o
O ;S
-1^ '
—
X - o
CO
ft,
5s
ill
q <
IS
s
o
si
J
.3 ^
o S
s 3
174 Journal of Society for Psychical Research
SCHEDULE OF INVESTMENTS
FEB. 194S
Nominal Book Value Vahie
Zlst December
„ , .
' 1947
Myers Memorial Fund :
"2 /o ^v*LlVcl»lUH olULK iyDi 0 0 £287 10 0 £262 16 0
0/0 oaVlDgS JjOnClS lyoU/^L' -
750 0 0 819 7 6 757 10 0
£1,106 17 0 £1,020 6 0
Blennerhassett Research Fund :
.
2i% Defence Bonds -
1,500 0 0 1,500 0 0 £1,500 0 0
Endowment Fund :
-
4% Consols 1,460 0 0 1,699 1 6 1,576 16 0
3% Funding Stock 1959/69 -
2,300 0 0 2,504 2 6 2,334 10 0
3i% War Stock 1952 or after 800 0 0 864 0 0 815 0 0
London and North Eastern
Kailway i°'o Debenture Stock 1,797 0 0 2,066 11 0 2,049 9 10
Great Western Railway 5%
Rent Charge Stock -
1,055 0 0 1,429 12 6 1,413 14 0
5% Guaranteed Stock 800 0 Q 1 080 0 0 1,060 0 0-
London Midland and Scottish
Railway 4% Preference
Stock - . . .
2,258 0 0 1,896 14 5 1,862 17 0
London Passenger Transport
Board 3 % Guaranteed
Stock 1967/72 -
514 {} 0 539 14 Q 496 0 2
^ : 3%Defence Bonds - .
-
1,000 0 0 1,073 15 0 1,015 0 0
3% Savings Bonds 1960/70 -
3,157 9 2 3,449 9 5 3,189 0 7
2-4% Australia stock 196(/71 995 9 1,040 10 0 955 6 6
£17,643 10 4 £16,767 14 1
General Fund :
2i% Annuities 58 11 2 56 11 1 47 8 8
9X0/ r'nTicnlc 1
•i i> 1 , i i 0 VI 1
1
i'ol
<>
4% Consols 86 11 11 100 15 4 93 1 4
3}% Conversion Stock 1961 219 8 7 252 6 10 230 12 9
3i% War Stock 1952 or after 309 9 9 334 4 11 315 5 6
York 3% Redeemable Stock
1955/65 - - - - 800 0 0 848 0 0 808 0 0
Australia 3% Stock 1955/58 250 0 0 262 10 0 250 0 0
Nigeria 3% Stock 1955 1,200 0 0 1,272 0 0 1,224 0 0
London Midland and Scottish
Railway 4 "„ Debenture
Stock ... - 1,161 0 0 1,340 19 1 1,329 6
4% Preference Stock 562 0 0 472 1 7 465 13 0
Bast India Railway Deferred
Annuity Class D. - - 23 8 0 590 17 0 549 18 0
3% Saving^Bonds 1960/70 -
3,000 I) 0 3,240 2 3 3,030 0 0
£9,886 18 0 £9,274 12 2
FEB. 1948 An Apparently Pseiido-Communicalor its
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 433rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Friday, 30 January 1948, at 4 p.m. The President,
Mr W. H. Salter, in the Chair. The Minutes of the last Meeting of the
Council were read and signed as correct. Twenty new Members were
elected ; their names and addresses are given above.
MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
The 197th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's Rooms
on Thursday, 22 January 1948, at 6 p.m., when a paper on " Hand-writing
in Automatic Script " was read by Mr James Leigh.
EMERGENCE OF AN APPARENTLY PSEUDO-
COMMUNICATOR
We are indebted to Mrs Frank Heywood for the following account of an
interesting sitting with Mrs Edith Thomson, a well-known trance medium.
I arranged a sitting with Mrs Thomson on July 7th, 1947, in the hopes
of getting information about a German friend, a Silesian landowner, of
whose fate I knew nothing. I thought it probable that a person of his
integrity had got into trouble with the Nazis or had been killed or deported
by the Russians ; and the sitting might be useful evidentially if it produced
information subsequently confirmed. Mrs Thomson did not know me
and the only people in England who had any links with my friendship with
the German, eleven years ago in America, were my husband and my two
sons, who were children at the time. Of the two other foreigners mentioned
by Mrs Thomson during the sitting, I know nobody in England who has
ever heard of one, and only one person, my family apart, of the other. My
family was away from London at the time of the sitting and did not know
I was having it. Normal leakage seems incredible, and it is hard to imagine
how Mrs Thomson could have got the names she did otherwise than by
E.S.P.
The sitting was a long one and I only took notes of salient points. The
ostensible control said that there were a young man and a girl present.
The young man was Robert and he had passed owing to chest trouble.
Here the medium coughed painfully. I was not encouraging, for my
friend's name was not Robert, though like it—I will call him Rupert—and
it was not until later that I remembered that a cousin of mine, called Robert,
had died of T.B. after being wounded in Libya. I had not thought of him
for a long time.
The medium soon began to talk as if Rupert himself were communicat-
ing directly and her remarks were reasonably in character. For instance
" Rupert " said that at last he had time for contemplation. I had always
looked upon him as a natural contemplative. He talked about time as we
176 Journal of Society for Psychical Research FEB. 1948
know it being an illusion. I had recently been pondering a good deal on
this subject. At one point the control interpolated, " Robin ", in a tenta-
tive way. After more conversation I said, " You must remember, Rupert,
that / cannot see you.'' This aroused a burst of most genuine-seeming
emotion on the part of " Rupert ", who said I had reminded him that it
was not altogether himself talking to me. He was apparently so upset that
the control took over, saying that he must rest. The control then remarked
that I had a letter from " Rupert " in my bag, which was correct, for I had
brought, though not produced, an old letter, in case it might be psycho-
metrically useful. It talked more about him, saying correctly that he was
interested in music and so on, and later that his passing had been swift.
Then it said, " The name is R—there's a P—Rupert," with no help what-
ever from me. After more transmission of remarks from " Rupert " the
control said, " Stefan—he might be called a rebel—against tyranny.
That's what got him into trouble." This is an only too apt description of
a Hungarian- Italian friend of mine. His rebellion against tyranny got him
into Dachau. I know him as Istvan, but his Italian relations have written
to me about him as Stefano. I had not heard from him for some weeks
and he was not in my conscious mind.
The control then gave a description of " Rupert's " appearance which
I did not recognise. He tried to laugh this off with another description,
also incorrect, and then suddenly asked me if I remembered our walks by
the river. At first I said " No ", but a moment later I did remember that
we had been for many such walks by the Potomac. " Rupert " seemed
distressed that I did not remember and reminded me of walking the plank.
This was an apt allusion to- an occasion when " Rupert", a good moun-
taineer, had tried to persuade me to cross a high acqueduct, two bricks
wide or thereabouts, over a frozen river, an incident far from my conscious
mind. He then reminded me of the wall round my garden, to which I
replied that there was no wall., " Protection then," he said, which was also
applicable in a particular way to the time I knew him, for I planted a hedge
round my little garden in Washington, in which he took an interest. The
hedge had caused quite a sensation, because Americans do not enclose their
gardens. He also mentioned having spilt something on my carpet. This
I could not and cannot remember. He added that it did not seem much
good trying to produce evidence if I did not remember anything.
Suddenly, apropos of nothing, the control said, " How is Poppet?
"
This had no meaning for me until I remembered, but did not say, that I
sometimes laughingly call my husband, " Poppet ". Shortly afterwards
the control said, with evident satisfaction, " Frank is Poppet." I had men-
tioned my husband earlier, as this gave away nothing not easily known to Mrs
Thomson had she previously done any detective work about me. I had
not mentioned " Poppet "; the casual joke could not have been further
from my conscious mind. A little later the control said, gropingly " Grace
—Cicely—Natalie." To arrive at Natalie was a surprise to me, for it was
the name of an American friend, killed in an aircrash in 1937, known to
none of my friends in England, except my husband, and of whom I had
scarcely thought for years. Rupert had known her and the control said
she was the girl " Rupert " was with.
After a little more talk about the horror of war, how " Rupert " felt after
FEB. 1948 Correspondence 177
his death and so on, the control said, " P—that's the surname." Rupert's
surname does begin with P. Later the control said that he seemed to have
died further away than Europe, which did not surprise me as I feared he
might have been deported to Siberia.
After the sitting I had a chat with Mrs Thomson, who seemed to be a
person of real integrity and to have no conscious knowledge of what had
taken place at it.
Some time before, I had set going enquiries through the Control Com-
mission in Berlin and other sources as to Rupert's fate, but had been told
that there was no trace of him. Some weeks after I heard that he had been
traced to a neutral country, having escaped both Nazis and Russians, and
that he was happily married. It is hard to avoid the conclusion that the
medium, while in trance, built up a communicator from genuine telepathic
information from my mind : some of it was what I consciouslv feared
might have happened, but more, such as the correct names and facts—
•
Robert, who had died of T.B. ; Natalie ; Stefan the rebel ;
Poppet, and
so on—were in my subconscious mind. None of these was in anv way
given away to the medium by anything I said or did.
If Rupert had in fact died and I had received information of his death
subsequently to the sitting, I should have had to assess it as without water-
tight evidence of survival, but as containing :
{a) A fair amount of evidence of character.
{b) A knowledge of past events.
(<-) An account of Rupert's reactions to the war and after death in
keeping with what I should have expected of him. (These are
not given above.)
{d) Attempts to give evidence of identity.
Reflection on the sitting in the light of subsequent knowledge suggests
that the ostensible control was skilfully using a much-practised technique
in building up the desired character, and particularly in providing items
popular with sitters, from telepathic clues. I had the curious impression
that the control, whoever or whatever it may have been, was itself con-
vinced of the authenticity of " Rupert ", its own apparent creation.
CORRESPONDENCE
BoRLEY Rectory
Dear Sir,—Was Borley Rectory the most haunted house in England?
The recent reprint of The End of Borley Rectory raises the question once
again and, as it seems to me, an unfavourable answer must be given.
Mr Price's two books The Most Haunted House in England and The End
of Borley Rectory are not serious contributions to the subject of haunting.
They are written in a popular style in the tradition of the best ghost stories.
One has only to look at the chapter headings to realise this : "A Night of
Miracles ", " '
Moving Day '
and a Golden Apport ", " The Enchanted
178 Journal of Society for Psychical Research FEB. 1948
'
Tea Garden "', " '
Truth '
at the Bottom of a Well? ", etc.
'
One does
not expect accuracy of statement with such a style and neither does one
find it. Here are a few criticisms among many which could be made.
The' observers. Most of the observers nominated by Mr Price were
unacquainted with psychical research. He appears to consider this desir-
able for he writes, " I wanted independent evidence from intelligent, compe-
tent, and cultured strangers who were not spiritualists ; and if they knew
nothing about psychical research, so much the better." There may have
been something to say for this attitude sixty or seventy years ago when to
show any interest in this subject might have rendered one suspect. At the
present time, however, when psychical research is recognised at Univer-
sities both in England and America such an attitude is out of date. One has
only to think of the outcry there would be if the opportunity of investigat-
ing some rare phenomena in any other subject was thrown away by inviting
" cultured strangers " to investigate instead of those who had studied the
subject. It is to be hoped that other investigators will not follow Mr
Price's example in this matter.
The phantom nun. The principal witnesses to the appearance of the
" nun " were the Misses Bull and a carpenter named Cartwright. No
attempt, however, appears to have been made to have obtained signed
statements from them or even to give the reader a verbatim report of what
they said.
In the case of the Misses Bull, Mr Price states that his account " is a
composite report, from notes, composed from information given to my
secretary and me on June 13, 1929 ; from another interview, over a cup of
tea, that Mr Sidney H. Glanville and I had with the ladies on Wednesday,
March 29, 1939 ; and from notes that Mr Glanville made when he met
Miss Ethel Bull and her sister at Pinner on June 25, 1938."
In estimating the value of the evidence given by Miss Ethel Bull it must
be remembered that she also told Mr Price that some of the coffins in the
crypt of Borley Church had several times been mysteriously moved from
their prescribed positions. Investigations, however, carried out in 1943
with the help of the Rector and a firm of masons failed to reveal any trace
of a crypt.
Mr Cartwright's account of how he saw the " nun " four times in two
weeks was obtained " over a pint of ale at the '
White Horse '."
W^ere the Misses Bull and Mr Cartwright ever given the opportunity of
approving the summary which Mr Price has given of their accounts.' We
are not told, but in any case stories obtained " over a cup of tea " and
" over a pint of ale " can hardly be taken seriously.
The wall messages. These were messages, partly incoherent, which
appeared written on the walls during the tenancy of the Rev. and Mrs
Foyster. No one saw them appear and no one admitted to having written
them. It was therefore assumed that they had been supernormally pro-
duced. Surely rather inadequate grounds for such an assumption!
These wall messages are not, of course, unique in the annals of psy-
chical research. Similar phenomena were recorded in " The Great
Amherst Mystery " when " Esther Cox you are mine to kill " was once
inscribed on one of the walls. Dr Prince, however, after a lengthy study
of the case {Proceedings American S.P.R., Vol. XIII, pages 89 to 130)
FEB. 1948 Correspotidence 179
showed that they were written by Esther Cox herself, unknowingly, while
in a state of dissociation.
Possibly the Borley messages were written by Mrs Foyster while in a
similar state of dissociation. She was in poor health,—several times we
are told she was ill in bed and once collapsed for no apparent reason in the
arms of Dom Richard Whitehouse,—and the curious way she had of
dotting the i in her christian name by means of a downward dash instead of
a dot is reproduced in the photograph of the wall message beginning
" Marianne at get help. . .
." This photograph also shows Mrs Foyster's
normal handwriting.
Mr Price states that the wall markings continued to appear after the
Foysters had left and during the period his obser\ ers were in the house.
These markings, however, were nothing like the messages, being mainly
faint " squiggles ". As each " squiggle " was found it was ringed with
chalk and dated. There is, however, nothing to prove that it was not there
all the time but unnoticed in spite of some observers being practically
certain it was not there during a previous search. Faint " squiggles
"
unnoticeable with the light in one direction may become apparent both
visually and photographically at another period of the day when the light
comes from a different angle.
Mr Price microscopically examined some of the material with which the
" Marianne " messages were written and found it was indistinguishable
from pencil lead. Did he examine the " squiggles " in like manner or
were they merely slight cracks in the plaster?
Possibly some of Mr Price's observers were not above pulling his leg.
The disadvantage of employing even " cultured strangers " becomes pain-
fully apparent when one is asked to accept on their word phenomena which
are contrary to all normal experience.
The seances. Mediums of proved ability might have had something
interesting to say about the Borley haunting, but during Mr Price's many
years of investigation he does not mention having asked even one well
known medium to visit the Rectory. Instead, many pages are devoted to
recording in detail inexperienced attempts at table turning at which answers
generally only " Yes " or " No " were given to leading questions. It is
hardly necessary to say that when table-turning phenomena are so weak
supernormal information is not to be expected. Even Mr Price admits
that much of the information is contradictory, yet it is on such data to-
gether with some equally unsatisfactory planchette messages that the
phantom " nun " is identified as the " Marie Lairre " of the seance mes-
sages and a highly improbable story of intrigue and murder is evolved..
This makes exciting reading but there is no reason to suppose that it corres-
ponds in any way with the real history of Borley.
Probably the most important planchette message was that recorded by
Mr Price in Chapter 27 of The Most Haunted House in England. He
writes, " One startling piece of information or prediction—fulfilled to the
letter
—
was obtained at a planchette seance at Streatham." This message
was obtained on March 27, 1938, and the relevant part was as follows :
" Sunex Amures and one of his men (indistinct) mean to burn the
RECTORY tonight at 9 o'clock end of the haunting. . .
." Later it was asked,.
" In which room will the fire start.^" " and answered, " Over the hall." .•
i8o Journal of Society for Psychical Research FEB. 1948
In actual fact the fire was not caused supernormally but by a pile of books
which Capt. Gregson was dusting falHng on to a lamp and upsetting it, the
fire did not occur on March 27th at 9 o'clock but February 27th at mid-
night and the haunting did not end with the fire but according to reports
continued long after it. Also the lamp was overturned in the main hall
and consequently the fire must have started there and not in the room over
the hall.
If this is what M»Price calls a literal fulfilment, of what value are his
other statements which cannot be checked by the reader?
It is, of course, a difficult matter to investigate h haunted house and it is
easy to criticise. These criticisms, however, are only put forward in the
hope that they will be adequately answered and the case strengthened for
taking the Borley haunting seriously.
Yours faithfully,
• •
B. NiSBET.
The Alleged Thermal Phenomenon at Borley
Dear Sir,
—" Visit 14 " in the report of the Cambridge Commission on
Borley included a series of readings taken from two thermometers, which
on first scrutiny seemed quantitative e^idence for the existence of a " cold
spot ". The arrangement was as follows : Thermometer A was secured
in a test tube by means of a rubber stopper " and placed as far as possible
on the cold spot ". (This had been reconstructed after the fire, by laying
a plank from wall to wall.) Thermometer B was " freely exposed " the
bulb " resting on the wood ". Readings were taken between i.oo a.m.
and 3.00 a.m. at ten minute intervals, and while thermometer 5 remained
steady at 65-1° F., thermometer A fell from 60-2° to 54-0° F., a fall
(including the original discrepancy) of ii-i°. The conclusion was that
heat was being selectively withdrawn from the region im.mediately sur-
rounding the enclosed thermometer—an attractive proposition in the light
of the " heat to energy " theory of poltergeist manifestations.
I was struck, however, by the fact that the figures gave no indication of
the changes which had given rise to the initial difference of 4-9° F. There
were two possibilities. Either the process of selective heat withdrawal had
already been manifesting itself, or cooling was taking place at a different
rate above and below the plank. In the latter case, it seemed probable that
the surface temperature of the wood might be affecting the reading of
thermometer B. Since the day temperature of the air and consequently
that of the wood was no doubt higher than 65-1°, cooling at the surface
would result in heat being conducted from the centre of the plank to the
surface. It was conceivable, therefore, that a point would be reached
where the rate of withdrawal of heat from the surface due to the falling air
temperature was just equal to the amount of heat being conducted to the
surface from the warmer interior. At this point the thermometer B
would remain steady, but thermometer A would continue to fall.
In order to verify this hypothesis, I attempted as far as possible to
recreate the conditions in the laboratory. An enclosed thermometer and
another resting on a block of wood 2" x 2" were set up in a reasonably
draught-proof situation. The air temperature was 58-0° F. (The actual
Time
Thermometer in
Test Tube in Air
Thermometer on
Wood
o min. s8-o° F. 65-0° F.
5 - 56-0° F. 63-0° F.
lO „ 53-o° F. 6o-o° F.
15 " 50-0^ F. 58-5° F.
20 „ 49-0° F. 56-5° F.
48-0° F. 55-o° F.
47-0° F. 53-5° F. '
.35 " 46-0° F. 53-0° F.
40 45-0° F. 53-0'^ F.
45 " 44-0° F. 52-5' F.
50 n 43-5° F. 52-5^^ F.
Temperatures approximately to nearest -5 of a degree.
l82 Jom tial of Society for Psychical Research FEB. 1948
day temperature was 38-0°). The block was heated separately, the surface
temperature being 65-0° and the internal temperature 67°. Readings were
then taken at five minute intervals and the results graphed as shown.
From this it can be seen that a series of readings taken over a period AB
would approximate to the Borley " phenomenon ". The duration of this
state of equilibrium would, of course, be determined by the rate of cooling
of the air, but might well last over two hours. A quantitative proof would
require the equating of the rate of heat removal at the surface with the rate
of conduction in the block. One would require to know however, how far
the thermometer on the wood was afiected by the surface temperature.
I think, however, that clearly this is, regretfully enough, the true explana-
tion of the phenomenon.
Allen J. Sharp.
Sir, —In connection with the Research Officer's remarks on Mr Ballard
Thomas's dream, it may be of interest to point out that J. W. Dunne, in
An Experiment witJi Time, suggested that the deja vu sensation might be due
to precognition.
A graduated series can be traced. First there is the fully-remembered
precognitive dream ; next come cases like Mr Ballard Thomas's, in which
forgotten details of the dream are recalled by the event ; then others like
those of Hone and Shelley (quoted by Andrew Lang in Dreams and
Ghosts) in which the very existence of the dream is forgotten until the
event occurs. Finally, in the typical deja vu experience there is no memory
of a dream at all ; but the other cases suggest that there may have been a
dream for all that.
I do not suggest, however, that this explanation applies to all cases. In
the few instances in which I have experienced the deja vu sensation, it has
usually been immediately preceded by a period of abstraction. The
precognition may have occurred during this period.
Finally, there are cases in which the sensation continues for long periods.
These seem to be pathological ; but even here it is as difficult to prove that
the feeling is an illusion as to prove that it is due to precognition.
Mr Eric Cuddon's case, reported in the same number of the Journal, is
of a type closely allied to deja vu and almost equally common. It occurs
in two forms : (i) The subject is walking along the street, thinking of
nothing in particular, when the thought of his friend X comes into his
head ; soon afterwards he meets X. (2) Without any previous thought of
X, he looks up and sees him walking towards him. A moment later he
realises that it is not X at all but a total stranger, only vaguely like him.
He walks on, and meets the real X round the next corner.
Remove the stranger who acted as a poitit de repere in the second form,
and you have a full-blown doppelganger hallucination ; but this is of
course much rarer.
Yours faithfully,
G. F. Dalton.
FEB. 1948 Review "
183
REVIEW
The Reach of the Mind. By J. B. Rhine. (Published by William Sloane
Associates, Inc., New York, 1947.)
It is not easy to write entertainingly about statistical experiments in
extra-sensory cognition or psychokinesis unless one has a theory to ex-
pound, in which case, as in Mr Carington's Telepathy, one can pack a
rather dull summary of the card-guessing and dice-throwing results into a
few preliminary pages and then proceed to the theory and its more pic-
turesque implications. So far as I can judge Dr Rhine has no theory
which covers the field of psychical phenomena, but in spite of this handicap
he has written a very interesting book. The aim, apparently, is to provide
the intelligent but non-technical reader with a fairly complete survey of the
research into Clairvoyance, Precognition, Telepathy and Psychokinesis
that has been carried out at Duke University and elsewhere since about
the year 1932. Considered as a piece of exposition the book is a great
advance on New Frontiers of the Mind and the last three chapters on the
implications of the research are I think the best in the book.
It is of course extremely difficult for an Englishman who has had no
personal contact with any of the experimenters or witnessed any of the
experiments to form a sound estimate of the true value of the vast volume
of research that has been turned out by Duke Univeristy and other U.S.A.
institutions during the past fifteen years.
The precautions taken, as described in a report, may sound impressive
but vital details may have been suppressed which, had they been mentioned,
might reveal only too clearly loop-holes for fraud on the part of someone
concerned in the tests. We do know that positive results in card-guessing
and dice-throwing have been reported in America on a scale for which
there is no parallel in this country. Apart from one or two borderline cases,
the only persons in England who have obtained positive results in card-
guessing (or a similar technique) under reasonably good conditions are
Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell and myself. A considerable number of young men
both in London and Cambridge have been experimenting assiduously for
months and years without a gleam of success. It can hardly be that they
are all " bad experimenters ". If the American claims are all genuine we
should be forced to assume that the psychic faculty is extremely rare in
England compared with America.
Let us look at a few of these American claims. It is reported that Miss
Margaret Pegram and a Miss Price tested the inmates of a school for the
blind and found that " about one out of every three of the inmates scored
significantly above chance "
(p. 137). Is this really credible? It is further
reported that this same Miss Pegram watched a little girl called Lillian
achieve a perfect score of 25 correct hits with a pack of Zener cards (p. 147).
We are told also that Miss Pegram was the first person outside of Duke
University to obtain positive results in the dice-throwing experiments
(p. 102). Miss Pegram must be a very remarkable person. . .
184 '
Journal of Society for Psychical Research FEB. 1948
Dr Rhine makes no less than seven references to the unwitnessed experi-
ments of B. F. Riess with a girl whose name is not even given and whose
whereabouts does not seem to be known. According to Riess this girl,
sitting in a house a quarter of a mile away, guessed 20 cards right out of 25
and performed this feat over a score of times. Her average per 25 was i&
over a series of 74 runs. Then we are told she had a nervous breakdown,
was treated for hyperthyroidism, lost her powers completely and dis-
appeared into the unknown.
I can find no mention of the telepathic horse which pranced in the pages
of Extra-Sensory Perception.
The unfortunate effect which these and similar stories have upon
British psychologists and men of science is to make them suspicious of the
whole American bag of tricks. This is a pity, for I feel convinced that some
of the work in extra-sensory perception done at Duke Univeristy under
Dr Rhine and at Columbia under Dr Gardner Murphy is essentially sound
and of real importance.
It cannot however be denied that at Duke University there has been a
radical change in the experimental situation since 1934. Round about that
year Dr Rhine reported on the feats of numerous high-scoring subjects, all
discovered apparently within the narrow precincts of Duke University.
If these subjects have petered out, surely in thirteen years similar indivi-
duals ought to have been forthcoming? Where are the successors of Miss
May Turner who, in a telepathy experiment at a distance of 250 miles from
Miss Ounbey, the agent, obtained scores of 19, 16, 16 ; of Hubert Pearce,
who made not only an average of 9 hits per run over 30 runs but who also
achieved a " perfect score " of 25 correct hits in 25 trials ; of Unzmayer,
who reached a score of 18, and the rest.''
For many years now the Duke University E.S.P. investigations have
been carried out with groups of apparently quite ordinary or unselected
persons. But even these groups in America behave differently from the
groups investigated by English experimenters who generally obtain only
chance results. Nearly all the card-guessing experiments with groups at
Duke University or the City of New York Colleges produce some sort of
positive result even if the odds against chance are only 100 to i.
These extraordinary discrepancies between conditions in this country^
and America are causing serious disquiet among the younger members of
the Society for Psychical Research who are asking why it is they are unable
to obtain these wonderful results. They are asking whether the remark-
able feats described in Extra-Sensory Perception were due in part to the
general slackness of experimental conditions which prevailed around 1934
and which may have allowed some subjects to learn the cards from their
backs and others to practise deliberate fraud.
The three most remarkable chapters in Dr Rhine's book are devoted to
the Psychokinesis (P.K.) experiments which appear to have originated in
Rhine's own family. As everyone knows, the experiments claim that
certain persons by a mere act of will can overcome the inertia of a falling
die and cause it to land with an assigned face upwards more often than,
chance would predict. The mysterious force exerted on the die during its
fall is, Dr Rhine emphatically avers, a non-physical force. It is noti-
physical and yet acts on matter—which sounds a contradiction of terms.
FEB. 1948 Review
It does not obey the laws of mechanics and yet, in order to produce the
effects it does, it must initiate changes in the angular momentum of the die
at definite points in space and time. Further, it must be under the control
of some intelligence—an intelligence that must be capable of performing
the most elaborate calculations in an interval of about half a second or less.
Unlike any other force of which we have any experience it is more success-
ful in influencing 96 dice thrown together than a single die. It has more
effect on heavy metal dice than light wooden ones. It will sometimes pro-
duce stronger effects when the operator stands 25 feet away from the
falling die than when he is quite close to it. And yet though the force
possesses all these extraordinary properties it seems -incapable of moving a
delicately suspended needle or of influencing any delicate physical instru-
ment. Apparently it can only be registered by some dubious and obscure
statistical effects observed when a die is clumsily shaken in a cup or allowed
to fall in a rotating cage.
Moreover, Dr Rhine's telekinesis appears to be of a totally different
variety from that observed, say, with Rudi Schneider. Where are the tele-
plastic structures reported by all the earlier investigators? Where are the
" mushroom-headed cantilevers " of Crawford " packed with matter in a
form unknown to science "? Where is the " emanation " of Osty that
interfered with a beam of infra-red rays? Are there no teleplastic " fingers '\
pinching the die in mid-air that Dr Rhine can photograph ? How is it that
darkness is not necessary to obtain the phenomenon?
Until Dr Rhine provides a satisfactory answer to these enquiries I am
afraid that for most men of science, as for the present reviewer, psycho-
kinesis a la Rhine will remain res addiibitate
.
Dr Rhine's account of the criticism which E.S.P. research in America
has had to meet and overcome makes rather ludicrous reading. There was,
first, he tells us the " mathematical criticism " followed by the " criticism
of experimental methods ". Neither ought ever to have arisen. When I
commenced my own experiments in ^934 it was perfectly obvious to me
that in order to apply the Binomial distribution formulae I must first of all
obtain a mathematically random sequence of card symbols. It was equally
obvious that experiments in which the guesser had the slightest opportunity
for
'
' learning
'
' the cards from their backs or edges were of no value whatever.
Yet, strange to say, the Duke experimenters seem to have fallen into pitfalls
that an intelligent schoolboy would have avoided. Cards which could be
identified by the impressions showing through the backs, others in which
there were variations in the design at the edges, packs of cards in which the
" rectangle " cards were cut to a different size from the rest—some of these
things Dr Rhine plausibly tries to explain away in the present book, but for
those who know something of the actual facts his explanations do not cut
much ice.
The book is in fact Dr Rhine's version of the development of the E.S.P.
cult in America. Whether we in England will ever be given a different
version I do not know, but Dr Rhine's book certainly merits the word
" remarkable " in more senses than one.
S. G. SOAL.
i86- Journal of Society for Psychical Research feb. 1948
^
NOTICES
Trance mediums or clairvoyants sometimes consent to come to the
Society to demonstrate before a group of sitters. It is not possible to give
notice of these meetings by circular or through the Journal, but announce-
ments are put up on the notice-board at the Society's rooms.
Will any persons willing to act as subjects for some hypnotic experiments
please communicate with the Research Officer?
THIS NUMBER NEED NOT BE REGARDED AS PRIVATE.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
Special Number. Circulation not Restricted.
March-April, 1948 Vol. XXXIV—No. 644-645
CONTENTS
PAGE
Mass-Observation Questionnaire on Hallucinations - - 187
Family Telepathy - - - - - - - 196
" Out-of-the-Body " Experience ----- 206
Reviews - - - - - - - - - 211
A MASS-OBSERVATION QUESTIONNAIRE ON
HALLUCINATIONS
By D. J. West
In 1890, when the Society carried out a large-scale Census of Hallucina-
tions, the investigators came to the surprising conclusion that ten per cent
of those questioned had at some time in their lives experienced at least
one hallucination not accounted for by illness, intoxication, or any of the
commonly recognised causes. In other words it would seem that, contrary
to popular belief, sporadic hallucinations were quite common to ordinary
people in a normal state of health. This finding was of interest to psychical
researchers, because it is among cases of hallucinations of the sane that
one must search for the so-called veridical experiences, those thoughts
which come to the mind from outside through the agency of telepathy or
other paranormal processes. In fact, the Census investigators quoted
from among their cases scores of examples of apparently paranormal
hallucinations.
Circumstances have changed since 1890. There have been many
references in the S.P.R. Journal to the fact that nowadays cases of
apparitions or other kinds of veridical hallucination are reported far less
frequently. It has been suggested that the increased tempo of life, and
the material preoccupations of the present age, are inimical to such
experiences. The question has been asked whether, if another Census
were undertaken today, we would find as many people reporting
hallucinations.
The present investigation, while in no sense a repetition in kind or in
magnitude of the 1890 Census, was intended to explore this question.
The Society were fortunate in securing the co-operation of " Mass-
Observation ", an organisation which has carried out many questionnaire
investigations. It provides a national panel of voluntary helpers, who
1 88 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1948
assist by answering and getting their friends to answer questionnaire forms
sent to them by post. In this case all members of the panel were asked to
answer the same questions as had been put in the 1890 Census.
It is not suggested that this panel is a random selection from the whole
population. Obviously people with leisure, intellectual inclinations, and
an interest in social questions, will be in a majority. However, the
previous Census was carried out among a substantially similar class of
people, so purely for comparative purposes the panel might be preferable
to a random sample ; but one must always bear in mind the possibility
that, if the rather more stolid labouring classes had been proportionately
represented, there might have been a reduction in the number of
hallucinations reported.
The average age of the people replying to the present questionnaire
was very close to the 1890 figure.
The questionnaire form as sent out to the panel is reproduced below :
• Directive for October/November, 1947
Special Job
I . Have you ever, when believing yourself to be completely awake, had
a vivid impression of seeing or being touched by a living being or inanimate
object, or of hearing a voice ; which impression, so far as you could
discover, was not due to any external physical cause?
If you have had any hallucination, would you please answer the following
questions and then describe the experience in your own way asfully as possible.
(a) Did the hallucination take the form of
:
i. Something seen
ii. Something heard
iii. Something touching you
. iv. Some other kind of experience.
(b) If something v/as seen, was it a human figure? If so, was it someone
you recognised?
(c) If something was heard, was it a human voice? If so, did you
recognise the voice?
(d) If the hallucination took the form of the appearance or voice of
someone known to you, did anything happen to this person about the
time of your experience ?
(e) When did the experience occur? How many months or years ago?
(/) Have you had more than one hallucination? If so, how many?'
If you have had more than one, please answer the questions separately
for each case. If you have had more than three, please describe only the
last three that you can remember.
Fifty years ago a Census of Hallucinations was carried out by the
Society of Psychical Research asking the questions above; to a sample
that was apparently very similar to that of our present Panel. We are
now working with them in an attempt to bring this up ,to date. The
survey is of particular interest to us as the first comparative question that
we have been able to ask covering such a long period.
MAR.-APR. 1948 Questionnaire on Hallucinations 189
The question is not dissimilar to one that we asked about a year ago.
If, in answering that, some of you described any personal experiences,
please repeat them in as much detail as possible. We are sorry about this
repetition but feel strongly that it is necessary.
Please answer this question on a separate piece of paper from the
remainder of the Directive answers. It is MOST IMPORTANT that if
you have never had anything in the nature of an hallucination, you should
still put your name or index number on a sheet of paper and write simply
" No ". The negative results of this survey are as important as the
positive ones.
The results of this survey will be summarised by the Society for
Psychical Research and everybody who replies—even in the negative
—
will receive a copy of this summary.
2. Will you please ask three of your friends at random this question
and get them to WRITE DOWN their replies, putting at the top of the
sheet simply their sex, approximate age, and their occupation?
Once again it is MOST IMPORTANT that negative replies should be
sent in in exactly the same way as positive ones.
In the original Census, people were interviewed viva voce by collectors
appointed for the purpose. Consequently doubtful matters could be
explained directly and necessary details obtained on the spot. This
questionnaire depended entirely on answers sent by post. The Mass-
Observation officials thought that the instructions were clear enough for
most people to follow without difficulty. In point of fact, although the
majority of correspondents appeared to get the right idea, there were very
many misunderstandings which detracted greatly from the accuracy of
the result. It would seem from this exploratory investigation that an
unsupplemented questionnaire is unsuitable for obtaining information
about hallucinations, upon which topic many people's ideas are confused
and misconceptions are frequent.^
The most important mistake which people made was in seeking only
positive replies. In spite of statements explaining that negative replies
were equally important, one kept coming across such comments as :
" The only person I could find who had had any experience of the kind
was . . . etc." Other people thought we were only interested in definitely
supernormal experiences, and returned accounts of seances, dreams,
premonitions and the like, without reference to hallucinations. A few
people took a strong dislike to the word "hallucination ", and regarded
the question as almost insulting.
There were so many borderline cases that it proved a difficult matter
to decide how many people had actually had an hallucination. Even
when the answer was definitely in the affirmative, the details supplied
sometimes cast doubt upon the matter. Some cases were clearly nothing
more than dreams, fanciful imaginings, mental impressions or illusions.
Arbitrary decisions had to be made occasionally, but the rules laid down
in the previous Census were followed as far as possible. For instance, all
These drawbacks are inherent in the method. They cast no reflection upon
Mass-Observation who conducted the inquiry with admirable care and
thoroughness.
190 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1948
dreams and experiences when percipients were not fully awake, whether
veridical or not, were excluded. So were any hallucinations resulting
from drugs, anaesthetics, delirium or coma. Smells and inarticulate or
Table P
Date of Investigation 1948 1890
Of Living persons.
go'
<-»
77-o% -
130
(40-5%)
( 615
(32-0%)
79-5%^ 275
V. J 101
639
^ (33-2%)
0
C
3 Of dead persons.
D
29
(9-o%)
3
r-f
Pi
g y
Unrecognised. 88
^27-5%)
Incompletely developed appari-
tions.
13
(4-o%)
158
(8-2%)
Visions.
.
(2-2%)
31
(i-67o)
Angels and religious phantasms.
(^2-2%)
22
(1-2%)
Grotesque, horrible or monstrous
apparitions. (4-4%)
39
(2-0%)
Other kinds. 33
(lO-2%)
143
(7-5%)
Total number of experiences
sufficiently described for
classification
321
(100%)
1922
(100%)
non-vocal sounds such as footsteps, if unaccompanied by visual or tactual
sensations, were not counted because it was considered likely that they
had a purely physical explanation. Moods and emotions, feelings of
" evil " and of " a presence " were not regarded as hallucinations. The
^ We are greatly indebted to Mr J. Fraser Nicol, a member of the Society, for
his able assistance in listing and classifying the material from which the tables in
this paper were prepared.
MAR.-APR. 1948 Questionnaire on Hallucinations 191
frequently reported sensation of having lived through a situation before
(the well-known illusion of deja vu) was also excluded.
On this basis it was estimated that out of 1,519 who replied, about 217,
or 14-3 per cent, had experienced one or more hallucinations. In the 1890
Census out of 17,000 people, 1,684 9"9 P^i" ^^^^ had had hallucinations.
We see at once that there is no evidence for the suggestion that the
frequency of hallucinations is declining. In fact the percentage is higher
now than it was in 1890. This discrepancy is probably spurious, due
mainly to the marked tendency to select positive answers. Another factor
may have tended to exaggerate the percentage in the present instance :
the investigation being conducted entirely by correspondence, there was
not the same opportunity to clear up doubtful points. The probability
is that many more borderland cases would have been rejected had further
details been forthcoming. Moreover, on looking through the cases a
second time, it seems that in the present count borderland cases were
treated more leniently and included more readily than in the 1890
investigation.
Apart from the high percentage of affirmative replies, there were other
good reasons for concluding that people had not changed much in their
liability to hallucinations. Consider the following table (I), in which
the hallucinations are classified according to what is seen or felt. The
figures of the present investigation are arranged side by side with those
from the old Census, and the close similarity is at once apparent. In
both cases most of the hallucinations took the form of a realistic human
presence or phantasm. Of these, the majority were " seen " as human
figures, although there were a good many that were only " heard " as
voices. Contrary to what one might expect from the popular belief that
phantasms are spirits of the dead, the majority were of living people.
Non-human phantoms, religious fantasies, and visions depicting complete
scenes were all quite rare.
Table II
(Classification a-ccording to senses affected)
Date of
Investi-
gation
Visual
Visual com-
bined with
auditory a?idl
or tactile
Auditory
(vocal)
Tactile
Auditory
and
tactile
No. of Cases
sufficietitly
described for
classification
1948
(48-0%)
27
(8-4%)
102
(317%)
33
(io-3%)
5
.(1-6%)
321
(100%)
1890
1053
(54-8%)
222
("6%)
493
(25-6%)
137
(7-1%)
17
(0-9%
1922
(100%)
In Table II the hallucinations are classified differently, this time
according to the sense or senses affected. Smells and unaccompanied
non-vocal noises do not figure in the table, because they were excluded
from the count. Again the similarity between the present percentages
192 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1948
and those in the 1890 Census is very great. Over half were mainly visual,
rather less than a third vocal. In only ten per cent of cases was more than
one sense affected, that is the phantasms were usually either seen or heard,
but not both. One slight difference between the results of the two
investigations was in the proportion of people who said they had had
more than one hallucination. In 1890 it was 25-4 per cent, in 1948 it
was 38-7 per cent. A possible factor contributing to this difference was
that borderland cases were often of the multiple variety, and as the 1890
investigators had been rather more strict in excluding doubtful cases,
they might have rejected a higher proportion of multiple cases.
Here is a fairly typical case taken from the replies :
Female. Age 36. Laboratory stezvard.
(a) Som.ething seen.
(b) A human figure, recognised.
(c) -
(d) No [correspondence with any particular event].
(e) [It took place] about five years [ago].
(/) No, not more than one [hallucination].
" The experience occurred about five years ago, and is the only one
I have had which could be counted as a genuine hallucination, though I
have had various '
odd '
telepathic experiences.
" I awoke sometime during the night, and felt that som^eone was near
me—I think a slight movement, a breath or a rustle, may have wakened
me—and when I opened my eyes I saw a small woman leaning over me
looking into my face. I sat up in bed in a fright, and she drew back and
v/alked quickly down to the foot of the bed, where she was hidden from
view. It was a moonlit night and light enough for me to see her. The
odd thing was, that I knew quite certainly that the woman was my grandma,
though she did not look very much like my remembrance of her ; her
build, general shape and size and movement, were the same, but she
looked a good deal younger than she had done during the time I knew
her. Slie had died a couple of years previously at the age of ninety, and
I had had no particular reason to remember her on that night. My
general impression was of a lively curiosity on her part, which would fit
in very well with her general attitude in life."
In this particular example, the phantom was associated with a dead
woman, and consequently might be interpreted by some people as a spirit
visitation, but this was not a feature of the m.ajority of the cases. Points
to notice are that it was an isolated hallucination occurring spontaneously
without any known cause or expectation, and recognised afterwards by
the percipient as a subjective experience. These characteristics contrast
markedly with the hallucinations of psychosis, which are as a rule multiple
and in which the patient often lacks the insight to realise the subjective
nature of the experience, attributing it instead to some delusory external
cause, such as waves of wireless or telepathy acting from a distance. The
example quoted, in common with nearly all the hallucinations reported
by sane persons, lacks the personal element found in most psychotic
hallucinations. The phantom appears as something casual and unrelated
MAR.-APR. 1948 Questionnaire on Hallucinations 193
to the percipient's personal life ; whereas in psychotics the hallucination
is usually a vehicle of delusory ideas or complexes characteristic of the
psychology of the individual patient.
One fact which emerged very clearly from the figures was that there
was a marked difference between the sexes in respect of the frequency of
reported hallucinations. Consider the following table (HI).
Table III—1948 Questionnaire
No. of persons claiming to have
had an hallucination.
Male Female Unspecified Total
72
(112-92)
138
(97-08)
7 217
No. of persons claiming not to
have had an hallucination.
655
(614-08)
487
(527-92)
160 1,302
Total 727 625 167 1-519
Of those persons who had not had an hallucination the majority were
male. Of those who had had hallucinations there were nearly twice as
many women as men. Statistically the difference is unquestionably
significant. In the four main cells of the table the expected distribution
of males and females is given in brackets, x- works out at 39-98 with one
degree of freedom. The anti-chance odds exceed 109 to i.
A precisely similar effect had been observed in the 1890 Census, as
shown below (IV) :
Table IV—1S90 Census
Male Female
Positive replies 655 1,029
Negative replies 7-717 7>599
Again we see that of those who gave negative replies, males were in
the majority, but of those who claimed hallucinations, females greatly
exceeded males. This correlation with sex was further demonstrated by
an analysis of those who replied that they had had more than one
hallucination :
Table V
No. of persons who said they had
had only one hallucination
Male Female Unspecified Total
49 78 6 133
No. of persons who said they had
had more than one hallucination
23 60 I 84
Table V shows that whereas there were nearly twice as many females
as males among those who had had only one hallucination, there were
194 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1948
nearly three times as many among those who had had more than one.
Thus the sex bias towards females was significantly more marked with
those who had had multiple hallucinations than with those who had
experienced only one. Perhaps, after all, this is what one would expect
from the common observation that women are more imaginative than men.
It is generally accepted that hallucinations such as are described in this
questionnaire are subjective experiences, constructed in the mind of the
person who sees them. The evidence for this view is fairly conclusive,
but a consideration of the pros and cons is outside our present scope.
Points to notice in favour of the subjectivity of the phantasms are that
usually only one individual is affected, and usually only one sense, either
vision or hearing. Furthermore, there is among the phantasms every
gradation of realism from what are recognised immediately as mental
" impressions ", through semi-exteriorised shadowy visions, to apparitions
so life-like that the percipient can hardly believe he is not encountering
a real person.
Strictly speaking, hallucinations come into the domain of psychical
research only when they convey information unknown to the percipient.
So far as is known this so-called veridical variety is in every respect the
same as an ordinary hallucination, except that the ideas in the percipient's
mind which form the basis of the phantasms are obtained by paranormal
cognition.
In about eleven per cent of the cases reported, the percipients considered
that their experience corresponded with some external event, or in other
words was " veridical ". Here is a typical example which came from a
housewife aged sixty-eight :
" About twenty-five years ago, I was busy sweeping the hearth, when
I distinctly heard my mother's voice call my name. At the time she was
150 miles away from me. A few days afterwards I had news that an
aunt of mine had passed away, almost at the identical moment. So far,
this is the only hallucination I have experienced."
In the 1890 Census an attempt was made to show that these veridical
cases were too numerous to be accounted for by chance coincidence and
other normal explanations. The arguments employed have since been
severely criticised, but that need not concern us here since the figures
of the present investigation were too small to admit of any valid assessment.
The only feasible method of procedure in this investigation was to
consider the cases individually. It was apparent from inspection that the
most striking of the veridical cases were usually those most remote in
time, or reported at second-hand. Doubtless this was due to unwitting
exaggeration, an effect which was well marked in the 1890 Census. How-
ever, there were a dozen or so cases which showed promise, and these
were followed up, but not one could be sufficiently corroborated to bring
it up to the standard of the average case printed in the Journal. Here is
just one example which is fairly representative :
Male, 30. Physical Training Officer.
" Sometime in 1940 a pilot's friend, also a pilot, was on night " circuit
and bumps ": the pilot had gone to bed at his usual time (about 11) and
some time later he was awakened by his friend (who shared the room)
MAR.-APR. 1948 Questionnaire on Hallucinations 195
coming in and switching on the Ught. The pilot looked at his watch and
saw that it was just after midnight ; he inquired, " Finished early? " to
which his friend replied, " Yes ". The pilot turned over and went back
to sleep. He discovered next morning that his friend had been killed in
an aircraft accident just about the time he woke up."
In response to the Research Officer's questions, the following additional
information was received :
I T^th January, 1948
" Dear Sir,
Please accept my apologies for not answering your letter of 23rd
December, 1947, before. I am afraid I cannot amplify my reply to the
recent Mass Observation directive on hallucinations very much as I lost
touch Vvith the pilot, who told me of his experiences, some years ago.
The best answers I can give to your main queries are :
(a) No, the dead man had been engaged on local night flying, not
operations.
(b) It is possible that the whole experience had been a dream, but
from the way my friend told it to me, I do not think so.
(c) I do not know [whether anyone was told of the experience before
news of the death became known].
(d) I do not know [whether anyone was told about the incident soon
after it happened].
(e) It is possible that mistaken identity had occurred, but again, I do
not think so.
I am sorry that I cannot help you more, but the reason why I included
this account in the directive was the very vivid impression left in my mind
when I heard it, and the belief that my friend was telling the truth."
The best veridical case was the following. It was sent by a woman
correspondent. No corroboration is available.
" One night about twelve years ago I was in bed, but wide awake, v/ith
an electric light still on over the bed. I was reading when suddenly a
figure floated over me about a foot above my head. She was wearing a
white, long-sleeved night-dress, and her hair looked as brilliantly red as it
really was. I reached up and stroked her face, which felt just like any
other face. The figure at once faded away.
" This friend was not ill to my knowledge. . . . She died that night."
In answer to the Research Officer's questions, the lady replied as follows :
(1)
" Yes. I know all about death wraiths. I read Myers and Flam-
marion many years ago, and always keep in touch with these subjects.
I certainly thought it meant my friend's death. I was about thirty-eight.
(2)
" I told my mother next morning, but no one else. (She is since
dead.) Curiously enough it was not a very mtimate friend. She was a
woman who had impressed me very much as a child. For some years we
had not been in close touch, and I can never understand why it was to
me she appeared.
(3)
" I am quite certain it was not a dream. I always read for an hour
about three o'clock in the morning. The electric light was on and I was
196 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1948
fully awake. I never have any tactile sense in dreams. I still remember
the " feel " of stroking her face as she floated above me.
" My grandfather is supposed to have been highly psychic, particularly
in dreams of premonition. He died before I was born, so I have only
family tradition to go by.
" 1 had, forty years ago, a very intense impression of my father, but I
have never called this anything beyond a dream as I was on the edge of
sleep. He appeared to me three months after his death in great misery
and worry about his affairs, and begging for three months more on earth
to put things straight. I did not then know that occultists say that those
who die exhausted take three months to awake.
" I am not psychic in general affairs. I have often tried to get some
im.pression at such places as Glastonbury, but without success."
To sum up, this small-scale investigation has been sufficient to provide
a strong indication that among the class of people questioned there has
been no diminution in the frequency, and no substantial change in the
character, of sporadic hallucinations since the census of fifty-eight years
ago. Among those prone to hallucinations during health, there is a definite
preponderance of females. Hallucinations believed to be veridical are a
distinct minority, claimed by less than two per cent of all who answered
the question. Much rarer still are veridical hallucinations which the
percipient is able to substantiate. Not one such was found in the whole of
the three hundred and more hallucinations reoorted. - .
FAMILY TELEPATHY
By G. N. M. Tyrrell
Is telepathy common or rare? In spite of sixty-five years of psychical
research, this question is not easy to answer. The Census of Hallucina-
tions, carried out by the S.P.R. during the last decade of the nineteenth
century, showed that about ten per cent of the population of Great Britain
experience, or at that time experienced, sensory hallucinations while in
the waking state. But this does not help us to estimate the frequency of
telepathy ; for the sensory hallucination is only one of the forms in which
telepathy expresses itself. Also many hallucinations occur which have
nothing to do with telepathy at all.
Even if Ave were to search the archives of the S.P.R. and to count
every spontaneous case of ostensible telepathy, we should still be unable
to answer the question ; for all we should then know would be how many
cases had reached the S.P.R. during a particular period, and had succeeded
in attaining the evidential standard set for validity. Since few people
take the precautions which make a case evidentially valid, it is obvious to
common-sense that the accepted cases can form only a small proportion
of the whole.
Is there any way by which we can form a rough idea of the frequency
with which telepathy takes place in ordinary life? Many people interested
in psychical research must have noticed that a large proportion of those
they meet have either themselves had experiences which seem to be
telepathic, or know others who have. But this is vague testimony, too
uncertain to support a solid conclusion. Can we use the large mass of
MAR.-APR. 1948 Family Telepathy 197
officially infra-valid testimony as a basis on which to form a more concrete
judgment?
Opinion on this matter is likely to be divided. Some will say that,
quite clearly, the spontaneous and experimental evidence which is
officially valid is all v/e have to go on, and outside that, there is nothing
on which we can base any sure inference. Every case which does not
reach the official standard may have a normal explanation, and therefore
must be assumed to be a normal happening. The widespread repoi'ts of
what appears to be telepathy must be dismissed, and it must be admitted
that we do not know whether telepathy is the daily companion of tens of
thousands of people or not.
Others will take a different view. Surely, they will argue, the standard
set for official validity is arbitrary. Do you ask us to believe that this
arbitrary standard happens to coincide with the line marking off cases
of real telepathy from cases which look just like telepathy, but are actually
normal happenings in disguise? It is perfectly evident to com.mon-sense
that it is only a difference in the degree of care or laxity in recording the
cases which causes some to fall on one side of the official line and some
on the other. Many of those which were carelessly recorded niust I'lave
been genuine cases ; and it is perfectly legitimate to draw the conclusion
that telepathy occurs much more frequently than the official examples
indicate.
How are we to meet this dilemma? Shall v/e use the second argument
to grant validity to some of the unofficial cases? That would mean
lowering the official standard of evidence. Or shall we, using the first
argument, admit that the frequency with which telepathy occurs is an
insoluble problem? That would be to fly in the face of common-sense.
I would suggest that the dilemma arises from the fact that we have
brought to bear on the problems of psychical research a spirit and a
method which is too exclusively analytical. Most emphatically, I should
say, we must 7iot lower the standard of official evidence. There is no need
to do so. But, while collecting evidence of the official type, we should
also busy ourselves with field-observation.
By the use of the quantitative type of experiment, in which the chance-
factor is mathematically dealt with, the investigator hopes to be absolved
from the onus of making a personal judgment regarding the probability
or improbability of the phenomena. But this personal judgment cannot
be evaded. It is the central factor affecting the assessment of evidence
throughout the subject, whether of the quantitative or qualitative kind.
It is, for example, quite evident that, in spite of the probability-hgure
attaching to a quantitative experiment, the result is not regarded uniformly
by everyone. Assessment of quantitative experiments varies enormously.
If a critic who regards the paranormal explanation of an experiment as
highly improbable cannot explain it by chance, he merely shifts the
explanation on to something else. It is possible to explain almost anything
away by suggesting improbable hypotheses. If it is pointed out to the
critic that the normal hypothesis he suggests is improbable, he merely
says that the paranormal explanation is more improbable. So we come to
the crucial factor in the end, which is the critic's personal estimate of the
degree of improbability attaching to the paranormal hypothesis.
Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1948
It is therefore useless to ignore evidence of the paranormal which has
no probability-figure attached to it in the hope that by so doing we shall
make sure and certain progress. The personal assessment is inevitable.
The field of public certainty, or even of public unanimity is, in psychical
research, very small indeed.
Field-observation involves personal judgment ;
but, since that is
inevitable in any case, we may as well secure the benefit it offers of giving
us sound ideas about the nature of E.S.P. For this purpose the following
examples of admittedly sub-valid occurrences in E.S.P. are submitted to
the judgment of readers of the Journal. They give a picture of the way
in which telepathy, or E.S.P., works in ordinary life, for those who think
the paranormal explanation probable ; and of the way in which normal
occurrences disguise themselves as paranormal occurrences for those who
think the paranormal explanation improbable. They are offered, not as
an attempt to smuggle black sheep into the official fold, but as a sample of
the natural background which psychical research offers for field-observa-
ation. They are exceedingly trivial. So is a wisp of smoke from a
supposedly extinct volcano ; but both can be significant.
The cases are provided by Mrs Frank Heywood (the original instigator
of this article) ; Miss Theodora Bosanquet, with a short instance by a
friend of hers ; Mrs Renee Tickell, and Miss G. M. Johnson. These
ladies were not selected on account of their experiences. They are a group
of friends interested in psychical research : and such interest does not
guarantee more telepathic experiences than fall to the lot of others ; nor
does it guarantee that the immediate friends of the group will have more.
However, it should be allowed that within a group of friends some selection
on account of experiences did take place, and that therefore the group is
not quite on a par with one selected at random. For those who think that
these cases should be allowed some cogency as evidence, this fact should
be allowed for. But if we suppose that the group has ten times the
quantity of telepathic experience that would fall to the lot of a group
randomly chosen, the indication would still be that telepathy is a wide-
spread and fairly common factor at work in daily life.
Mrs Heywood says :
" My husband met a man in London who
expounded to him the theory that by concentrated attention one could
improve the circulation and so warm cold feet. This my husband
practised during the day. On his return to the country I said to him,
before he mentioned it : 'I cannot think what has happened to my feet,
which are usually so cold ;
they have been burning hot.'
"
" One foggy evening in the country during the war black-out I had a
strong impulse to go to the station to meet my husband, as I felt he had
no torch. My mother tried energetically to dissuade me on account of
the bad weather, and knowing that my husband always carried his torch.
But the impulse was too strong and I walked twenty minutes through the
night in a November fog. On his arrival, my husband said :
'
I am glad
to see you ;
my torch gave out as I left the Ministry.' I hailed a car a
moment later, which gave us a lift, so that my torch was not needed."
" A master at Eton had promised to let me know if a vacancy in a good
house should crop up for my son. He wrote me that an excellent vacancy
had unexpectedly occurred, which he advised me to accept at once. But
MAR.-APR. 1948 Family Telepathy ' -
199
I had a strong impulse to write to a friend of my childhood whom I had
only seen three or four times since the 19 14 war, and with whom I was
quite out of touch, and ask his opinion. I knew his boys were at Eton,
but I did not know in which house. A long reply came that the vacancy
had occurred because he had removed his boy from that house—and
giving me good reasons why I should not send my boy there. I remember
feeling a great reluctance to do so absurd a thing as write to him about
it."
" In the autumn of 1944 I was about to furnish a house I had taken in
London when I had a strong impulse to ask the Tyrrells to come and live
in it for a time—this although I had no reason to suppose that they would
have any wish to leave their house at Worthing. I did so and they replied
that they had unexpectedly to vacate their house, had nowhere to go, and
would be glad to come."
In the next case there is an experimental element. It is by no means
the only case in which Col. and Mrs Heywood have used their telepathic
linkage deliberately on specific occasions.
Col. Heywood noted the case immediately after its occurrence as
follows : "I was travelling from Brussels to London when I realised that
the train would reach Victoria an hour earlier than a telegram I had sent
my wife would lead her to believe. I realised when already in the train
at Folkestone harbour that if there were no porters at Victoria I should
have difficulty in getting my four pieces of luggage to a taxi. I hoped,
therefore, that my wife would ring up the Southern Railway to ask
whether the train would be late. She would then be told that I would be
due in at 1900 hours ; she would meet me and she would then carry the
small things while I carried my two heavy bags. As we have many a
time successfully practised telepathy, I tried to send her a message to
this effect. I repeated it several times during the journey."
Mrs Heywood noted down her part of the incident at the time as
follows :
" On Sunday, November iith, 1945, my husband telegraphed
that he expected to return from Belgium on the following Wednesday,
arriving at Victoria at 8 p.m. It did not occur to me to meet him as I
thought his train would probably be very late, and at 6.30, too tired to
read, I lay down on my bed for a short rest. A few minutes later the
feeling of my husband's arrival '
flowed in '
upon me. I cannot think
of a better expression. I felt : Of course I must meet him ; he may have
a lot of things to carry and be unable to get a porter. I must ring up at
once to see what time the train will arrive.
" Very reluctantly, almost recalcitrantly, I got up and did so, to learn
that the train was due, net at 8 but at 7 p.m. I flung on my clothes and
hurried out of the house, saying to some friends who were downstairs, '
I
must go and meet Frank and carry things for him.'
On reaching the station, I engaged a porter before the train was in.
I thought on the way that my behaviour was somewhat illogical, for my
husband would need a taxi and I saw no reason why he should not find a
porter. So I asked as we met, '
Did you send me a message? '
He replied,
'
Yes! '
"
The " friends downstairs " to whom Mrs Heywood refers were Mrs
Tyrrell and Miss Johnson. They both signed a statement saying that
200 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1948
they remembered that she spoke to them as above as she hurried off to the
station. This case is there well attested.
Cases of this kind occur to Mrs Heywood at fairly regular intervals.
Miss Bosanquet writes as an observer rather than as an experimenter.
In one case, she says :
" Mr and Mrs B. D. lived in Devonshire. They
had a cook who had been with them for several years and seemed to them
to possess something they called '
second sight'. She often seemed to
know more than was easily accountable for by normal channels of informa-
tion. She was a bit of a character and was well-known to all Mrs B. D.'s
family circle of brothers and sisters. Her name v/as Ellen C.
" One morning, while Mrs B. D. was talking to Ellen in the kitchen,
they saw the garden gate opened by a messenger-boy carrying a telegram.
Ellen said at once :
'
Mr W. is dead and that's a warning telegram.' Mr
W. was Mrs B. D.'s eldest brother. He lived, with another brother, in
the Isle of Wight. When she opened the telegram, she read :
'
W.
seriously ill. V/riting. R.' W. was, in fact, dead when the telegram was
sent. He had not been known to be at all seriously ill and the brother he
lived with, R., had not thought it necessary to let anyone know that W.
was ill. He thought it was quite a slight, passing malady. W.'s sudden
death came to him as a great shock." This is only one of several cases of
apparent E.S.P. which Ellen experienced.
The next case apparently involves precognition. It is prefaced by the
following note :
" Miss Annie New, the percipient dreamer, sleeps in a
room on the fourth fioor of Keyes House, Dolphin Square, S.W.i. Lady
Rhondda, who seems to have been the agent, lives in a flat on the other
side of the Keyes House block and a floor higher—503 Keyes House."
Then follows the incident :
" On the morning of Tuesday, April 30, 1946,
Lady Rhondda was disturbed some time between 6.30 and 6.45 a.m. by a
loud noise made by a man hammering on the roof of a block to the north
(Rodney House). Looking out of her v/indow she could see the man at
work with his large hammer. At 6.45 she left her bedroom and went into
the sitting-room next door where she telephoned to the porter about the
terrible lot of noise which was going on. Then she went back to bed.
" Miss New, who is Lady Rhondda's housekeeper, came up to No. 503
at about 7.30. Nobody said anything to her about the hammering until
after breakfast. Then Lady Rhondda said :
'
There was a man on the
roof hammerirg and making the most awful noise at a quarter to seven.'
" Miss New said at once :
'
Oh, I dreamt that you were telephoning to
the management about a noise on the roof.' Lady Rhondda had not
mentioned telephoning, and Miss New said she hadn't heard any hammer-
ing herself (her room faces another way). Asked what time the dream
had cccurred. Miss New said it must have been between four and six.
She said she v/ent to sleep again afterwards.
" Subsequently, in the evening, Miss New said she had been thinking
more about the dream and thought that what she heard (in a state described
as half-awake and half-asleep) was not exactly a telephone conversation
but Lady Rhondda's voice sounding from the loud speaker of the radio
set in her bedroom (Miss New's bedroom) talking about the awful sound
on the roof. She put the time as definitely very near six o'clock." This
MAR.-APR. 1948 Family Telepathy 201
statement was signed by Lady Rhondda and Miss New on May 3rd, and
corroborated by Miss Bosanquet.
The next case is contained in an extract from a letter from a friend, Miss
M.A., to Miss Bosanquet, dated July 14th, 1946 : "For sometime I have been
trying to get some pale grey paint for my staircase. After bothering
everyone for it for months, I gave up and decided to live with spotty
stairs until times grew better. Then about a month ago, I began to
'
remember '
that I ought to '
go to Colchester to buy some paint '. In
vain I pointed out to myself that paint was unobtainable ; this item kept
popping up on the '
things I must do '
list in my mind. I go to Colchester
about tvs'ice a year : it is a set-out requiring hired cars and Christina.
However, so strong was the impulse that I roused myself and went about
a fortnight ago, although I had no real errand. I went at once to the
paint-shop and asked for some creaw. paint. (I had given up looking for
grey, you see. Cream we always need anyhow.) There was none, of
course, and I was just coming out feeling vaguely surprised when I noticed
a huge tin standing all by itself on the empty paint-shelves. I looked at
it and found it was a gallon (the amount I needed) of grey paint of the shade
I wanted. I asked if I could have it, and they said '
Yes '.
"
This case might be assigned to telepathy or to clairvoyance ; but it
suggests rather an unclassifiable ability to acquire knowledge of a general
situation, of which I have come across many examples.
The next case has much more the appearance of being telepathy in
the narrower sense of thought-transference, though probably we should
be very careful how we trust appearances.
Sir Alan Moore, a member of the Society, received a letter written by
his sister, Mrs Pryor, M.B.E., on January 9th, 1948, reporting an example
of apparent telepathic communication between herself and her husband,
Col. W. M. Pryor, J.P., D.S.O. Col. and Mrs Pryor live at Hitchin.
She v/rote :
" Last night we had a perfect example of telepathy. There
is going to be a '
Brains Trust ' next week in the village hall and Jack is
taking part. Last night we {i.e. Jack and I) were trying to think of some
questions and had thought of a few which I had written down. I had
just written down the last, '
Why does a horse get up front legs first, etc.?
'
and we were both silent, thinking hard. I was staring into the fire and
my thoughts went like this :
'
A burnt child dreads the fire—is pain
therefore useful? '
As I opened my mouth to speak. Jack said '
Is pain
useful? '
I gave you the previous question to show that the '
pain '
one
was not suggested by it. . .
."
Mrs Tickell writes :
" Telepathy between children and their parents,
and more particularly their mothers, has rarely been discussed ;
partly
because both parties are apt to take it very much for granted, partly
because the conscious and articulate member of the partnership is usually
so busy that she has no time to note what is happening except in terms of,
'
Well, isn't that odd? '
and partly because it is almost impossible to
subject to laboratory tests.
" In the note that follows, this last difficulty has not been overcome.
They are the outcome of '
field-naturalist ', day-to-day observations,
202 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1948
general and particular, and their evidential value is nil. It is probable
that most mothers, if their attention vrere drawn to the matter, could
produce much material of the same kind.
" In general, the first startling fact to be recorded is the extraordinary
and frequently maddening sensitiveness of even very young babies to the
psychological '
atmosphere '
of their surroundings. This is not entirely
due to the fact that tension or placidity in the mother may affect her milk,
and so react on the child's temperament through its digestion, for it can
be seen in bottle-fed infants, and even in those brought up by nurses.
" Thus a mother who is harassed, tired and anxious will in most cases
find her mood reflected and her burden increased by a jumpy, sleepless
and fretful baby who will react in the same way to family discussion,
however distantly and inaudibly conducted and smilingly dissembled. . . .
" At an older stage, when verbal communication with children becomes
possible, they will often be found to react more vividly to what parents
think than to what they say, and it is dangerous, out shopping or in public
places, to allow oneself to think of topics or situations one does not want
discussed, otherwise the most embarrassing queries can be made. '
Why
is that woman not keeping her place in the queue? '
Or, apropos of a
negro, '
Is it very dirty in Africa? '
and so on. A quick interior switch-
over to thoughts of summer holidays or Christmas crackers or even the
imminence of the next sweet-ration period will usually forestall this.
" As to detailed instances, I should like to cite five.
(1) "A mother was sorting the laundry in her bedroom, out of which
the nursery opened. In the nursery, out of sight but not out of hearing,
was her five-year-old daughter J. There were no mirrors and no dark
reflecting pictures there. In the laundry basket there were a number of
coloured handkerchiefs, red, blue, green, pink and yellow. These were
being allotted to various piles when J. was heard to remark, '
That's a
pretty green one.' Her mother, rather surprised, for she ivas dealing out
a green one, asked the child to '
guess '
what was coming next. To her
amazement J. guessed a whole series absolutely correctly as her mother
looked at them still in the blue tissue paper of the laundry basket. It was
impossible for J. to see them.
(2) "I was sitting one day in a meadow, along one side of which flowed
the river Windrush, first as a mill pond and then, after a strong waterfall,
as a quick stream. With me were my two elder sons, then one and three
and a half years old. We were a good 1 50 yards from the river, and I had
warned the bigger boy, who was generally sensible about danger, not to
go near it. I was rolling the baby one over in the grass, and his brother
was, as I thought, picking daisies for a wreath close by. Suddenly, as if
an arm had pulled me, I felt I must turn round ; I did so, and saw the
big boy three quarters of the way to the waterfall. He had turned round
and was staring fixedly at me with a mixture of defiance and hope that he
would not be observed. I suppose his defiance had '
got through '
to me
somehow and made me aware that something was wrong. I rushed after
him—and he, of course, ran on as fast as his legs could carry him—and
got up with him before he reached the edge.
" Incidentally, a pretty demonstration of telepathy can be given by two
people in any large place where a crowd is dining, particularly in schools
MAR.-APR. 1948 Family Telepathy 203
or colleges, by staring at the back of whoever it is desired to rouse, and
watching how soon she turns round. (I say '
she '
because I have only
tried it in a girls' school and a women's college. I think men may not be
so easily moved.)
(3) "I was talking to my youngest son, aged four and a half, and telling
him why a certain school was called '
Arnold House ': he thought
'
Arnold '
a funny name. I explained that Dr Arnold had altered English
schools a great deal and that he had had a school of his own, whose name
I could not at the moment remember. I went on dressing him, and had
forgotten our conversation when he said :
'
What did you say about some-
where called Ruggy? '
I said I hadn't mentioned anywhere called Ruggy,
and that I'd never heard the name. He looked much puzzled and went
on saying Ruggy to himself. Then I remembered we had spoken of Dr
Arnold and said, '
Is it where Dr Arnold taught? Do you mean Rugby?
'
He looked very much relieved and said, '
Yes, that's right, Rugby.' I had
not consciously thought of Rugby at all.
(4)
" A boy, aged twelve, was away at school during a period of acute
family anxiety, of which it was impossible for him to have known.
Throughout its duration, however, he was reported by his headmaster to
be agitated, jumpy, tearful, and finding concentration very difficult. On
the same day that the anxiety ended, he changed completely and become
his usual cheerful, lively, interested self, and remained so.
(5)
" A Si"^!' whose mother suffered badly from irregular migraine,
usually knew, whenever she was away from her, when these attacks were
coming on ; this between the ages of ten and twenty. Before that, she
was seldom parted from her ; and afterwards the migraine began to
improve. (Curiously enough, with its disappearance there disappeared
also the mother's faculty for extra-sensory perception.)"
Miss Johnson's cases of " family telepathy " are so many that it is diffi-
cult to choose among them. Often they appear to possess an element of
precognition ; and they do not give the impression that " telepathy " is
the right, or at any rate the comprehensive term for them. The faculty
appears to be one of acquiring information of any kind if it is required for
a particular purpose. There is often no indication that the source of the
information is any particular person's mind.
One trivial incident is the following :
On the i'.nd November, 1947, Airs Tyrrell, Miss Johnson and myself
were to visit some people living about six miles away, whom we had never
seen before. While dressing. Miss Johnson was about to put on a chain
bracelet when she saw in a mental picture, visually, though, as she
describes it, " at the back of her mind ", a lady whose appearance and
dress she noted, wearing a bracelet exactly like her own. So strong was
this impression that she did not put her bracelet on. When we arrived
at the house, the hostess appeared, and was at once recognised by Miss
Johnson as the lady of her visual picture, both by her dress and personal
appearance. She was wearing a bracelet extremely like Miss Johnson's.
None of us had ever seen any member of this family before. We had been
introduced to them by letter by someone who had never described the
personal appearance of any of them. Later, on comparing notes, it was
204 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1948
found that at almost the exact time when Miss Johnson had her visual
impression, the hostess was putting her bracelet on.
In October, 1944, while helping Mrs Heywood to stock her house in
London with domestic amenities. Miss Johnson tried to obtain a pail and
sink-strainer. These articles were very scarce at that date, and she had
tried for them in vain. In particular, Peter Jones said they had none
and were not expecting any. Next morning Miss Johnson woke up seeing
a visual image " in the back of her mind " of a green pail and sink-strainer,
accompanied by a feeling that they were to be had at Peter Jones. She
went there as early as possible and said to the assistant that she believed
they had some green pails and sink-strainers now in stock. There were
none on view, and the shop-assistant asked her how she knew. They
were, he said, at the time being unpacked behind the scenes, having arrived
unexpectedly the previous evening. I am told that ladies will appreciate
the importance of the fact that these articles were green ; for green pails
and strainers were at that time extremelv rare, those that were available
being usually white.
With Miss Johnson, incidents of this kind happen regularly. That they
should be largely concerned with shopping and food during austerity
times is probably due to the fact that the faculty responds to interest or
necessity. Few of these cases could be made formally evidential because
the experience, when it occurs, is "at the back of the mind ", and Miss
Johnson finds it extremely difficult to put it into words, either orally or
in writing, before the event which verifies it has taken place or become
known. The verification of the event, by supplying corroboration through
the senses and the brain, appears to remove this inhibition, but of course
too late. She does not find the same difficulty, however, in acting on the
experience that she does in putting it into words.
The situation with regard to these cases is in one way ironical. Although
most of them do not constitute formal evidence for telepathy, many of
them are veiy useful. The above examples show that most of Mrs
Heywood's are ; Miss Johnson's certainly are, as I can personally testify ;
Miss M. A.'s experience was, and so was Mrs Tickell's case beside the
V/indrush. It used to be said by some critics that the acid test of the
paranorm.al is the pragmatic one. Show that you can make use of the
evidence, said this school of critics, and you need not be quite so fussy
about evidential standards.
What form will criticism take now? We have a steady flow of minor
cases which are unquestionably useful. Will the former argument of the
critics be reversed? Will it now be said that utility is no criterion of
the validity of evidence ; that all these minor cases are evidentially faulty
because some normal explanation or other could be fitted to each, and
that therefore all the cases are disposed of.
Well, in any case, I know of one family at least which will continue to
make use of Family Telepathy—whether it exists or not!
(Miss G. M. Johnson, the percipient member of Mr Tyrrell's house-
hold, has provided the interesting note on her own kind of experience
given below :)
MAR.-APR. 1948 Family Telepathy ' •
205
Sir,—As one who knows something of Family Telepathy from the
producer's end, may I add some remarks about the above article? These,
of course, apply to my own experience only.
At the meeting at Caxton Hall on January 30th, the question was raised
why sensitives' cases have recently been so scarce. It seems to me as
one reason for this that the faculty follows the chief occupation of life
and goes where the interest is fixed. This means that in austerity times,
it finds its outlet in shopping and practical things.
My own facultv has in no way diminished ; which makes me wonder
whether it has in the case of others. But I do find that it can be overlaid
by worry, anxiety, a feeling of insecurity and so on. The harassed life
one leads now-a-days has the effect of interfering with its natural
activities.
I have always found that the most important condition for success is
the personal relation between the subject and the investigator. Without
complete understanding and confidence on both sides, the faculty is apt
to subside. The relation is very delicate. The slightest thing wrong will
spoil everything. The existence of the right relation between Mr Tyrrell
and myself was, I am sure, the condition which secured my success in the
E.S.P. experiments we made on the electrical machine, before Dr Soal
and Mr Whately Carington obtained their results with cards and drawings.
I have been surprised when listening to discussions on why it was that
Prof. Rhine obtained his results so much more easily than did British
investigators, that no one seemed to realise how all-important this relation
is. The suggestion made by Professor Broad at the Caxton Hall meeting,
that British and American subjects should be interchanged would, I feel
sure, if it could be carried out, demonstrate this clearly.
In my own case (it may be different with others) E.S.P. usually comes
to me in the form of an internal conviction (and by " internal " I mean
that it has not properly entered into my consciousness). I just know, in
this internal Avay, that such and such an event has happened or is going to
happen ; or that suc'n and such a thing must be done. Sometimes these
feelings are accompanied by an internal image of a visual kind. This
differs from the images of imagination, which I can often see very vividly,
partly on account of a different feeling which comes with it. It is a distinc-
tive feeling which marks it off from imagination ;
though it is almost
impossible to say in words what the feeling is. Partlv, also, the image
which goes with E.S.P. is less on the surface than the image which goes
with imagination.
When these convictions come to me, I find that it is very much easier
to act on them than to put them into words. For this reason I cannot
often make my cases evidential for the public.
G. M. Johnson
Two Experiences
(The following account of two experiences has been received from Miss
Valentine Ackland, a member of the Society. They appear to fit well into
the general frame of Family Telepathy and add further illustration to
Mr Tyrrell's article.)
2o6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research MAR.-APR. 1948
In a latter dated February 4th, 1948, Miss Valentine Ackland writes :
" I have had two experiences of precognition which I would like to put
on record ; both can be vouched for, I think, satisfactorily.
" The first happened in 1930 or early 1931 (I could find the exact date
by looking up the files of the Daily Express).
" I had dreamed, during the night, that my mother walked in to the large
studio in which I then lived (2 Queensborough Studios, W.2). She was
carrying a newspaper in her hand and had a certain expression on her face
which her family irreverently calls '
her death-face '
(an expression of
commiseration and anticipation). She said as she came into the room (in
my dream), '
I'm afraid it will be rather a shock to you, darling—poor
Stephen Tomlin is dead—he has been killed in an aeroplane accident!
'
" Directly I woke I told this to Sylvia Warner, who was staying with
me at the time and who also knew Stephen Tomlin.
" Within half-an-hour or so my mother knocked at the door and came
in : my dream was exactly repeated in every detail, except that the dead
young man was not Stephen Tomlin (whom I only knew slightly) but
his brother Garrow, whom I knew very well.
" Another example happened about two to three months ago, and was
not a dream-experience.
" I left the house to go out shopping. The morning post had arrived
before I left. While I was out I suddenly thought with annoyance that a
letter had come from Janet Machen and I had forgotten to read it. I
could not remember where I had left it, either.
" Returning at lunch-time I went straight into the room where Sylvia
Warner was (she shares my house) and said, '
Did you find a letter from
Janet anywhere.' I forgot to read it before I left this morning—.'
" I thought her face expressed alarm and dismay, and then she said,
'
After you had gone the postman came back again and brought a letter
from Janet to you which he had forgotten to deliver—it's in the hall at
this moment.'
" The letter was quite unimportant and I had no particular reason to
be expecting one from her, nor any kind of urgent interest in it.
" I have had very many other similar experiences, but not as sharply-
defined as the two I have related. I think many people have them—
•
usually in the form of '
prophetic '
dreams, or dreads, or '
hunches '.
Mostly, mine are rather impersonal and do not seem to be related to fear
or disaster (I know the first experience described here seems to belie this).
But I do not want to take up time and space by telling a great many, often
uncorroborated, stories."
These statements are corroborated by Miss Sylvia Townsend Warner,
who writes : "I have read both these accounts carefully. I have a very
definite recollection of both occasions, and I confirm that Valentine
Ackland's narrative is exactly true to what occurred."
" OUT-OF-THE-BODY " EXPERIENCE
The following account was sent to the Research Officer in November,
1947, by a correspondent who does not want his name mentioned. He
writes as follows :
MAR.-APR. 1948 " Out-of-the-Body " Experience . 207
" I have described below an experience which I have always intended
sending to the Society for Psychical Research, but have hitherto neglected
to do so. The incident took place on August 3rd, 1944, near Saint Charles
de Percy in Normandy. I was an armoured car officer engaged in medium
and long range reconnaissance work with the 21st Army Group. At
about 2.30 p.m. on the above-named day I was in a small armoured scout
car which received a direct hit from a German anti-tank gun. Our car,
which' was full of various explosives, grenades, phosphorus bombs, etc.,
blew up. I might mention that it was stationary at the time, having just
halted. The force of the explosion threw me about twenty feet away
from the car and over a five-foot hedge. My clothes, etc., were on fire,
and there were various pieces of phosphorus sticking to me which were
also burning. Now my immediate reaction to the explosion, which
appeared to me from the middle of it like a great white cold sheet, with a
strong smell of cordite, was (naturally enough) fear. I imagined for a split
second that I had gone to hell, and I quickly tried to recollect some
particular vice which might have been my qualification. It is interesting
to notice that I did not see any rapid '
trailer '
of my past life as, I believe,
drowning persons report. All this took a fraction of a second, and the
next experience was definitely unusual. I was conscious of being two
persons—one, lying on the ground in a field where I had fallen from the
blast, my clothes, etc., on fire, and waving my limbs about wildly, at the
same time uttering moans and gibbering with fear—I was quite conscious
of both making these sounds, and at the same time hearing them as
though coming from another person. The other '
me '
was fioating up
in the air, about twenty feet from the ground, from which position I could
see not only my other self on the ground, but also the hedge, the road,
and the car which was surrounded by smoke and burning fiercely. I
remember quite distinctly telling myself :
'
It's no use gibbering like
that—roll over and over to put the flames out.' This my ground body
eventually did, rolling over into a ditch under the hedge where there was
a slight amount of water. The flames went out, and at this stage I suddenly
became one person again.
" Of course, the aerial viewpoint can be explained up to a point as a
'
photograph '
taken subconsciously as I was passing over the hedge as
a result of the blast. This, however, does not explain the fact that I saw
'
myself ' on the ground quite clearly and for what seemed a long time,
though it could not have been more than a minute or so.
Naturally there can be no witnesses as to this, and the fact that I have
told the occurrence to a number of people since might have led me to
exaggeration of those details—though I do not think that is the case.
I can still remember all the details quite clearly as they happened at the
time."
In answer to questions put to him by the Research Officer the gentleman
wrote again as follows : - _
-
" While I cannot remember definitely having read of a similar case, I must
say that I have always been interested in psychical phenomena, and had
read a number of books on the subject before the incident in Normandy,
including Fifty Years of Psychical Research. Nevertheless I did not.
208 Journal of Society for Psychical Research MAR.-APR. 1948
indeed I do not, correlate my own experience with any that I can
remember reading, though quite possibly I have read of such happenings,
which may have unconsciously influenced my own interpretation of it.
There is, however, one similar experience which I remember reading
before the incident, and which made a certain impression upon me—it
was in an autobiographical travel book by a fairly well-known person
(though I cannot recall the name, which, in itself, is no doubt significant).
This man travelled in Egypt investigating the powers of various mystics
and holy men—among his m^any interesting experiences was one in which
he spent the night in the inner chamber of the Great Pyramid of
Cheops(.'') or som.e such pyramid. He describes a dream or a vision in
which he said he seemed to leave his body and float some twenty feet
above it, though while he was so doing he was attached to it by a thin
white(?) cord. I remember no such cord, though a curious characteristic
of my experience was that at one time I seemed to be able to see the scene
from a number of different viewpoints all at the same time. That is to
say, while I was floating above my body, I was conscious of doing so, and
of the view about me including my own body on the ground, yet I was
also conscious of a much weaker (to use an inapt adjective) comprehension,
and that was from the side, where I could make out both the ground body
and also the airborne body, though that may well be due to efforts to
visualise the whole scene afterwards. The body on the ground was only
conscious of the flames, and of the ui^gency of the moment.
" I was fully conscious of everything once I had landed in the field,
though I do not remember passing over the intervening hedge (some
four to five feet high). While floating in the air I was quite v/ell aware of
the fact that the ground body was my own—one moment I was above it,
watching it and trying to help it by giving advice {i.e. roll over and over
—
it's no use gibbering, etc.), the next I was the body on the ground, very
very frightened but quite in possession of my senses. I do not remember
how I got down again—it must be realised that the whole incident was
very swift indeed.
"As to pain, though I was gibbering, it was more with fear—I cannot
recall, any intense pain. The burns comprised petrol and phosphorus
burns to both hands, forearms, face and head, and back. I was given
morphia, penicillin, plasma and all the usual impedimenta in the field
hospitals—skin grafts to my hand were made in England—it took about
six months for everything to heal over again.
" I did not tell anyone of my experiences for about a year—I spent most
of my convalescence in the Wye Valley wandering about the Dean Forest
in the daytime and arguing about philosophy in the night-time.
" I have no objection to quotation of this incident, though I should
prefer that my name was not mentioned. I should like to emphasise that
though all I have written I believe to be a true statement of what I felt
and/or imagined at the time, the possibility of exaggeration, rationalisation,
etc., must not be overlooked, and I regret that I have no means of checking
on the veracity of it, even to my own satisfaction."
While it is impossible to obtain corroboration of an individual experience
of this kind, one can compare the account with independent descriptions
by other people who have been through similar experiences. The present
MAR.-APR. 1948 " Oiit-of-the-Body " Experience 209
case calls to mind many instances in which, during times of stress or
illness, a person has had the feeling of being apart from his body and
looking down on the scene from a detached point of view. Very few of
those cases are recorded as clearly and fully as the one just quoted, but
it may be of interest to mention one or two for purposes of comparison.
The next case is taken from a letter from Bombay, dated July 12th,
1945, and addressed to the late Mr Kenneth Richmond. Mr Richmond
gave the following details about the correspondent :
" He is a healthy man of about thirty. 1 have known him for fourteen
years and should say that he had no tendency to dissociation in ordinary
circumstances, and he has shown himself notably level-headed under
considerable dangers and stresses. He was in excellent health before this
very sudden attack of high fever."
The letter reads as follows :
"... I worked up a tem.perature of 105-2 in a matter of two hours and
before I knew it I v/as in hospital. Looking back on it, it was very
interesting. It seems I was only unconscious for ten minutes, the rest
of the time I remember. All the time while my temperature was high
some part of me stood by my bed and watched the rest of me. It was
bad enough to require two male nurses to hold me on my bed and there
I was, watching myself raving and struggling, and thinking that I never
realised dying was going to be so undignified. And I remember saying
to myself, '
Pull yourself together—you look a damn fool out of control
as you are noyv.' And I remember pulling myself together for all I was
worth, and yet my body just wouldn't keep still. And then the rigor
started setting in and the Caryl by my bedside became really scared
because it was nothing short of frightening to watch death start in your
fingertips and gradually work his way up your arms and stop at the
elbows, repeat the same thing from toes to knees and then start on your
jaw. After that I fell asleep and then the whole thing settled down to
the disgusting anti-climax of dysentery. But for a couple of hours I was
quite an interesting patient."
Although no precise dates are given, it would appear that this description
was v/ritten fairly soon after the illness took place. This is an important
point, because dream-like experiences are as a rule not remembered in
detail, and the memory of them becomes less and less reliable as the
months go by.
The next letter v/as addressed to Dr Hugh Phillip (pseudonym) following
a broadcast talk in 1944 in which he mentioned a simdlar experience:
June sth, 1944
Dear Sir,—Your postscript on Sunday, June 4th, was of interest to
me in this way—six years ago I had pneumonia and pleurisy combined,
caught owing to a chill out shooting. I had two nurses, and I remember
the doctor saying (whilst in my room) that he could do no more and I must
fight it out myself. I cannot think I was supposed to hear this aside.
With what strength I had, I pinched myself and said " You shall get
better ". Now this w^as the crisis. I feel quite certain that I left my body.
I felt it getting heavier and heavier and sinking into the bed. I was
sitting on top of a high wardrobe near the door looking down on my bed
2IO Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1948
at myself, and the nurse sitting by me. I was disgusted at my unshaven
appearance. I saw everything in the room—the mirror on the dressing
table and all small details. Fear was absent entirely. The next thing
I remember was my nurse holding my hand and shortly afterwards heard
her say, " The crisis has passed."
Some time after all this, I told the nurse what had happened to me,
described what she was doing at the time and the details of the room.
She said I was given up and that it was because I was delirious.
No, I was dead for that time, but made myself go back.
My family did not quite believe all this and your talk last night has
made them change their minds. Hoping this will not bore you.—Yours
sincerely, (Colonel).
The next letter also was one of those sent to Dr HugJi Phillip after his
broadcast. In this case there was a great lapse of time between the event
and its narration :
<v ^ 7
jime 20th, 1944
Dear Sir,—Yours of the 20th arrived safely and I will repeat the story
I wrote you on June 4th. As then, I must again ask you to forgive any
medical inaccuracies—I am not a medical man and may well be wrong in
some medical terms. I am drawing on a memory thirty-one years old.
I was stationed in Aden in 19 13 and was seriously ill with dysentery.
I got to the stage of having to be lifted from side to side as I was too weak
to move myself in bed. From the instructions I heard the M.O. give
the orderlies (v/e had no nurses in Aden then) I gathered that a collapse
was expected and that in the event of that occurrence I was to be given a
saline injection via the rectum.
Shortly afterwards, I found myself lying parallel to the bed, about three
or four feet above it and face downwards. Below me I saw my body and
witnessed the giving of the rectal injection. I listened to all the conversa-
tion of the two orderlies and of a strange M.O. who was directing affairs
and was indeed a very interested spectator of the whole business. I
remember well that the saline came from an enamel kind of vessel which
was connected to a rubber tube—the vessel being held up at arms' length
by an orderly.
I found myself next back in bed, feeling much better. I told my story
to the orderlies who were quite sceptical. I particularly enquired about
the strange M.O. I found there had been one, he was en route for
Bombay, I think, and had called at the hospital in time to help. I never
saw him again.
I have always been convinced that my spirit (or soul if you will) had
actually left my body but returned as a result of the injection. When
kindred subjects have cropped up I have told friends of my experience.
They have listened in a tolerant fashion but I have always felt that my story
was really being received " with nods and becks and wreathed smiles ".
You may imagine then how delighted I was to hear you narrate an almost
similar experience—and I sat down immediately and wrote to you. . . .
On reading the above I find I have omitted to mention that the orderlies
said I couldn't possibly have any knowledge of the matter as I was quite
unconscious before and after the operation.
I hope the story will be of some interest to you.
MAR.-APR. 1948 Reviews 211
Finally, here is a case sent to the Research Officer in 1946 by a lady
member of the Society. She writes :
" Some years ago my husband developed appendicitis for which he was
operated on. He was on the point of recovery when a curious experience
came his way.
" After I had had tea with my husband in the afternoon, the doctor, a
local practitioner, who was in attendance and went daily to see my
husband, telephoned me to go with him to the hospital that evening. He
said that quite suddenly my husband had collapsed, that although, through
great presence of mind, the nurses had managed to revive him, he was
still in danger. It would appear that an embolism was suspected.
" On my arrival at the hospital—Hampstead General—we were then
living at Hendon, the Sister in charge told me that I could go into my
husband's room on condition that I did not say much to him as he could
only speak in a whisper and was still not out of danger. She said she had
never seen so complete a collapse followed by a revival, although she
could not yet say whether he would recover. He had been given oxygen
but his breathing was still bad.
" My husband said with difficulty and in a whisper :
'
Did they tell you
what happened? '
I said I merely understood that he had fainted. My
husband said, '
Oh, it was quite pleasant—the nurses were washing me
when I suddenly felt myself floating outside the hospital, thinking of
nothing in particular—but merely feeling very happy. The next thing
I knew was that I was being " pulled back ", with nurses round my bed
looking very worried, and being given oxygen.'
" My husband was not the slightest bit interested in psychical research,
had never, and still has never read on the subject. He is a graduate of
London University—his subject being Economics."
REVIEWS
Telepathy and Medical Psychology. By Jan Ehrenwald. London, 1948.
(Allen and Unwin. 12s. 6d. net.)
Many psychical investigators have felt the need for a bold speculative
theory which will make some sense of our scattered and baffling observa-
tions and provide some guidance for our researches. Dr Ehrenwald has
put forward such a theory based on the principles of abnormal psychology.
Whether or no we agree with Dr Ehrenwald's views, they deserve the
closest attention, for he is one of the few modern psychiatrists who has an
intimate knowledge of both psychical research and the several schools of
psycho-analysis.
After an analysis of many typical examples, Dr Ehrenwald describes
what he considers the important conditioning factors in the occurrence of
telepathy. In the agent, thoughts associated with emotional stress, and
thoughts totally or partially repressed are the ones most readily " trans-
mitted " by telepathy. Physiological as well as psychological crises in
the agent, by releasing activity from primitive strata of the central nervous
system, may also favour thought transmission. This would explain the
212 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1948
frequency with which telepathic incidents are reported in connection with
sudden or violent death.
In the percipient, the main determining factor is a deficiency of some
mental (or sometimes phj'siological) function, for which the telepathic
faculty acts as a form of compensation. Favoured states for telepathic
percipiency are dreams, disabilities of sense perception, hysterical dissocia-
tion (as in mediumistic trance), neurosis, and developing schizophrenia,
especially the variety accompanied by paranoid delusions.
From these observations, Dr Ehrenwald is inclined to favour the idea
that telepathy is a primitive function, whereby unconscious strata of the
mind become aware, in a vague way, of the content of another's thought.
The theory has much in common with Carington's " Common Sub-
conscious ", but Dr Ehrenwald envisages the individual personality being
built up, as it were, in opposition to the communal tendencies. Telepathic
communion has a negative survival value and is more repressed where the
individual personality is better developed and integrated. In the
insanities, the personality is overwhelmed by an uncontrollable influx of
material from its own and other people's unconscious. The commonly
observed regression to primitive modes of thought in schizophrenia is, in
Dr Ehrenwald's opinion, accompanied by an equally primitive suscepti-
bility to chaotic telepathic influences.
This thesis, here very inadequately sketched, forms a bold and
fascinating conjecture. Flow near to the truth it comes we cannot judge
until many more facts are avilable. We can, however, observe thstt the
argument proceeds in steps, some of which are open to many doubts.
Firstly, Dr Ehrenwald's theory relies upon information derived from
spontaneous cases. But he takes pains to point out repeatedly that these
incidents are incomparably lower in evidential value than the statistically
assessed card-guessing experiments which have established the existence
of telepathy. One gets the impression that if these card-guessing experi-
ments had not shown a telepathic effect, Dr Ehrenwald would have
written off the spontaneous cases as freaks of coincidence and misreporting.
As it is, he is able to accept them wholeheartedly, and bases his arguments
on the analysis of individual incident
There is an obvious objection to this procedure. On the grounds of
Dr Ehrenwald's own statements, neither he nor anyone else can judge
with certainty what proportion of spontaneous " psychic " incidents are
really due to coincidence and other normal causes. If the card-guessing
experiments in this country could be taken as a guide, telepathy would be
rare indeed. It may be that telepathy in the real life situation is common,
but in the absence of any yardstick, and in a field where individual judg-
ments differ radically, it is impossible to be sure. In these circumstances,
theories based upon individual cases, which may or may not be psychic,
are necessarily speculative, and require further confirmation.
Dr Ehrenwald's catalogue of conditions favouring telepathy must not
be accepted unquestioningly. He repeats the well-known claim that a
crisis in the agent, especially death, precipitates telepathic transmission.
While it is perfectly true that crisis cases are a very common form of
evidence for spontaneous telepathy, this is not in itself a proof that crisis
conditions are a causal factor. It may be that trivial thoughts and events
MAR.-APR. 1948 Reviews 213
are just as commonly transmitted by telepathy, but because they are less
striking and less " evidential " than crisis cases, they pass unnoticed and
unreported. In a lesser degree, the same criticism is applicable to all the
alleged favourable factors cited by Dr Ehrenwald. A case accompanied
by emotional stress, or an abnormal condition in the percipient, is far
more likely to attract attention than the effect of a stray thought entering
the mind of a normal person engaged on routine pursuits.
As evidence for his theory, Dr Ehrenwald brings forward the observa-
tion that the apparent phenomenon of telepathy is commonest in the
abnormal percipient. He points out that belief in the " omnipotence of
thought " is a feature common to the savage, the neurotic, the hysteric
and the paranoid schizophrenic. But these are the very people whose
testimony is most open to suspicion. To some it will seem more than
likely that the frequency of psychic claims among these classes is evidence
of nothing more than their unrehability.
These are all semi-theoretical objections. More important for a fair
appraisal of Dr Ehrenwald's views is a consideration of the factual evidence
which he quotes in their support. Herein, unfortunately, lies the weakest
portion of the book. In Chapter II Dr Ehrenwald gives a highly
critical survey of the evidence for psychic phenomena. Paranormal
cognition is almost the only phenomenon he will accept. He is not
concerned with the " curious collection of manifestations, mental and
physical, which is put on show in the spiritualistic seance room for
appropriate fees ". Spiritualism he describes as like " a submerged
prehistoric continent projecting into the world of today : a strange
sample of primitive mentality ". The mediumistic trance is, in his view,
an abnormal state in which the medium is particularly susceptible to
telepathy from the sitter. " The trance may work like a magic mirror, as
it were, reflecting the lingering hopes and forlorn memories of those
looking into it . . . both the medium and the sitters are at complete liberty
to indulge in their collective wish-dreams and phantasies, canalised by
the traditional spiritualist faith." Mrs Willett's famous descriptions of the
next world are in Dr Ehrenv/ald's view hysterical hallucinations, coloured
by ideas telepathically derived from the mind of the sitter, Lord Balfour.
In striking contrast to his sceptical attitude to the phenomena which he
disbelieves, the author accepts incidents as evidence of telepathy on what
one would imagine would be for him totally insufficient grounds. His
chief example of telepathy compensating for a physiological disability is
Prof. Neureiter's famous case of the backward girl, Ilga K. This girl
was said to suft'er from word blindness. She could understand single
letters, and could write sentences herself, but she was unable to read
words or phrases. Her mother and teacher discovered that if they read
something to themselves, Ilga could then say what it was, apparently by
reading their thoughts. Dr Ehrenwald appears to accept Neureiter's
thought-reading interpretation without question. No mention is made of
the numerous later investigations of Ilga K. which showed that most, if
not all, her phenomena were due to the picking up of auditory clues from
her mother. In his very judicial summary of the case,^ Hans Bender
^ " The Case of Ilga K. " by Hans Bender, Journal of Parapsychology (1938)
II, pp. 5-22.
214 '
Journal of Society for Psychical Research u.k'R.-hVR. 1948
concludes that " Many as the unsolved problems of this case may be, it
must no longer be cited as an example of genuine thought transference
which has unavoidably occurred in consequence of v. Neureiter's report ".
Few investigators will feel able to follow Dr Ehrenwald in his complete
disregard of this finding.
It is an important part of Dr Ehrenwald's theory that paranoia and
schizophrenia are accompanied by a heightening of telepathic suceptibility.
He makes the striking suggestion that the characteristic delusions of
persecution, and of mental influence from a distance, may contain an
element of genuine telepathy. He quotes the instance (p. 126) of a fellow
medical student named Leon who developed paranoid schizophrenia and
became convinced that the writer was torturing him with telepathic
influences. Dr Ehrenwald thinks there was some truth in Leon's belief,
for it was a fact that the author harboured mixed feelings towards him.
Surely in these circumstances a simpler explanation than telepathy would
account for Leon focussing his persecutory ideas upon Dr Ehrenwald ;
they were friends and it is reasonable to suppose that during social inter-
course Leon detected the " mixed feelings " by perfectly normal means.^
In another case (p. 143) Dr Ehrenwald is accused by a schizophrenic
patient of being responsible for the condition of a woman who had injured ^
herself trying to break out of hospital. The author thinks this may be
due to the schizophrenic sensing the thought at the back of his mind that
he had mishandled the woman. Presumably the author has quoted the
most cogent cases in his book, but if these are the best he can produce
after years of experience in mental hospitals, one may doubt whether the
insane >really do display apparent telepathy more frequently than the
uncertified.
Dr Ehrenwald's enthusiasm for the telepathic hypothesis leads him to
postulate a telepathic mechanism in situations where one would normally
not have considered it. He instances the fact (which laymen have long
suspected) that dreams often follow the pattern of the particular school
of thought to which the patient's analyst happens to belong. He quotes
the example of John Layard's book The Lady of the Hare in which, by
her dreams the " patient seems to confirm all the claims of analytic
psychology and in particular all the theories held by the author of the book.
. . . No one but Layard himself could have possibly arrived at such an
ingenious reading of the case. The reason is obvious, the dreams dreamt
by the Lady of the Hare are the joint product of the patient's and the
analyst's unconscious "
(p. loi). Most people would say that these cases
were due partly to subtle suggestions passing from analyst to patient,
whereby the dreamer is made to accept the analyst's point of view and
dream accordingly, and partly to the well-known tendency in recording
and interpreting dreams to bring out only those points which fit in with a
preconceived theory. Dr Ehrenwald postulates the additional factor of
telepathic rapport, and he thinks the same factor may account for the
tendency of hypnotic subjects and hysterics to behave in conformity with
the ideas of their particular investigator. Strong evidence against this
telepathic theory is that in every case of this kind that has been investigated
thoroughly it has been found that in the absence of normal clues and
^ Precisely the same criticism applies to the case of Mr P. quoted on p. 128.
MAR.-APR. 1948 Reviews 215
suggestive influences the investigator's ideas no longer affect the subject.
Such was the case in the so-called Reichenbach phenomena (detecting
the polarity of a magnet by alleged visible emanations), and in Dr Alrutz's
observations supporting the fluidic theory of mesmerism, which were
investigated by Dr Thouless. If the psycho-analytical situation could be
investigated with equal rigour, the same result would probably be obtained.
Towards the end of the book, Dr Ehrenwald gives interesting psychia-
tric sketches of two subjects believed to possess psychic faculty. Two
cases are not enough to draw any definite conclusion, but the author is
right in placing them on record. The first is the famous medium, Mrs
Eileen Garrett, about whose supposed psychic faculties there are wide
differences of opinion.^ The second is an anonymous card-guesser, Mr
" Scott ". Dr Ehrenwald has been kind enough to give me the real name
of the percipient so that I could look up the reports on his work. I have
no hesitation in saying that in this case the evidence for genuine psychic
powers is extremely good.
To wind up this already too lengthy review, it must be pointed out that
Dr Ehrenwald's thesis may have hit the nail on the head, even though
some of his supporting evidence is not always sound. Only time will tell
whether the author's fate is to be cast into the limbo of forgotten
theorists, or hailed as a great thinker whose breadth of vision outshone
his contemporaries. Of one thing we may be sure, if Dr Ehrenwald's
ideas are something of an innovation to the psychical researcher,
they will seem even more startling to his colleagues of the orthodox
psychiatric world.
'
D. J. West
Telepathy and Allied Phenomena. By Rosalind Heywood and S. G. Soal.
London, 1948.
This is the second of a series of pamphlets written at the request of the
Council of the S.P.R. to bring reliable information on various branches of
psychical research before the public. This survey by Rosalind Heywood
deals with the historical background, telepathy, veridical hallucinations,
dreams, clairvoyance, psychometry, precognition and experimental work.
Dr S. G. Soal contributes a chapter on quantitative experiments. A list
of selected books is appended. This pamphlet may be obtained from the
Society for Psychical Research, 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C.i.
Price IS.
^ See " Report on a Series of Sittings with Mrs Eileen Garrett ", Proceedings
S.P.R., XLV, pp. 43-87.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i
For Private Circulation among Members and Associates only
May, 1948 Vol. XXXIV—No. 646
CONTENTS
New Members
Meetings of the Council
Annual General Meeting-
General Meeting
Some Experiments in Divining
An Unsuccessful Attempt to Locate Water by Divination
y\ Note on the Mass-Observati(jn Questionnaire on Halluci-
nations . . . . .
Correspondence :
Random Selectors for E.S.P. Experiments .
Result of the Prize Offer to Physical IVIediums
A Significant Book Test ....
Emergence of a Pseudo-Personality . .
The Pendulum Experiment
Book Review : The Kingdom of the Lost
Obituary : Mr Harry Price ....
The Kenneth Richmond Memorial Books
New Course on Psychical Research at Morley College
A New Periodical ......
PAGE
218
218
219
219
220
222
223
224
226
230
231
23s
237
238
239
240
240
MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY
(to be held in the Library)
*Tucsday, 25 May, at 6 p.m
Discussion 1\ leetin!'
DR L. J. BENDIT, M.D., D.P.M.,
will open a discussion on THE TRAIN-
ING OF THE PSI FACULTY
MR ERIC CUDDON will read a
paper on HYPNOSIS AND PSYCHI-
CAL RESEARCH
MR CHAN MIFELEW will give a
second talk and demonstration on
THE PREDICTION OF MENTAL
REACTIONS
PROFESSOR DENIS SAURAT will
speak on SOME METAPHYSICAL
ASPECTS OF PREVISION
* Members may bring not more than one guest to these meetings.
Saturday, 5 June, at 3 p.m.
Private Meeting
*Thursday, 17 June, at 6 p.m.
*Thursday, i July, at 6 p.m.
2l8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may 1948
NEW MEMBERS'
{Elected 25 February 1948)
Bryan, T. S., 2 West Park Avenue, Kew Gardens, Surrey.
Carson, Miss Helen G., Sandpits Farm, Walsham Le Willows, Suffolk.
Deans, Miss Marjorie, 29 Avery Row, Brook Street, London, W.i.
Firth, Miss S. M., 16 Highbourne House, Marylebone High Street,
London, W.i.
Hellsten, Ulf J., Askrikegatan 3111, Stockholm, Sweden.
Jones, F., H.M.S. Birminghatn, c/o G.P.O., London.
Newby, R. F., 4 St. Laurence Close, Cowley Peachey, Middx.
Peck, P. J., The Beeches, Higham Road, Rushden, Northants.
Rudgley, Miss E. A., 106-108 High Street, London, S.W.'ii.
Sheffrin, L. H., 19 Verney Gardens, Dagenham, Essex.
Swayne, Lady, Byways, Rotherwick, Basingstoke, Hants.
{Elected 9 March 1948)
Cornish, H. V., Barnfield, Cleeve Hill, Cheltenham, Glos.
Knight, Mrs T., 104 St James's Street, Dublin, W.4., Eire.
Holding, Mrs M. E., 13 The Crescent, Dollis Hill Lane, London, N.W.2.
Moore, Miss D. M., Hill Farm House, Seend, Wiltshire.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 434th Meeting of the Council was held at 3 1 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.i, on Wednesday, 25 February 1948, at 2.30 p.m.. The
President, Mr W. H. Salter, in the Chair. The Minutes of the last
Meeting of the Council were read and signed as correct. Eleven new
Members were elected ; their names and addresses are given above.
The 435th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.i, on Wednesday, 25 February 1948, immediately after the
Annual General Meeting. The President, Mr W. IT. Salter, was in the
Chair.
Mr W. II. Salter was re-clcctcd President for the year; Adniiral the
Hon. y\. C. Strutt, Hon. Treasurer ; Mr W. H. Salter, Hon. Secretary ;
and Miss T. Bosanquet, Hon. Edrtor of the Journal.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication : Professor C. D. Broad, Mrs F\
Heywood, Mr D. Parsons, Professor H. H. Price, Mrs W. H. Salter, Dr
S. G. Soal, Dr R. H. Thouless, and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell.
Finance Committee : Mrs Goldney, Lord Charles Hope, Mr G. W.
Lambert, and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
House Committee : Miss Jcphson, Miss Newton, Mr W. H. Salter, and
Admiral the Hoii. A. C. Strutt.
Publicity and Library Committee Miss T. Bosanquet, The Hon. Mrs
Gay, Mrs F. Heywood, Mr Edward Osborn, Mr D. A. H. Parsons, Mr
S. R. W. Pollard, Mrs A. W. Stevens, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, and
Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell. ,
• .. . :
r
MAY 1948 Meetings of the Council 219
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were elected as
follows :
Corresponding Members : Dr G. H. Hyslop, Dr C. G. Jung, Mr R.
Lambert, M. Maeterlinck, Dr Gardner Mm-phy, Professor T. K.
Oesterreich, Dr J. B. Rhine, Dr Tanagra, Dr W. H. R. Tenhaeff, Dr R.
Tischner, Mr C. Vett, M. Warcollier, and Dr C. Winther.
Honorary Associates : Mrs W. Carington, Miss H. Carruthers, Mr J.
A. Hill, Rev. W. S. Irving, Mrs K. Richmond, Professor C. Sage, Mr B.
Shackleton, Mr G. H. Spinney, Dr R. H. Thouless, Miss Nea Walker,
Dr Gerda Walther, and Dr Wereide.
The 436th Meeting of the Council was held at 3 1 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.i, on Tuesday, 9 March 1948, at 2 p.m.. The President,
Mr W. H. Salter, in the Chair. The Ivlinutes of the last two Meetings
of the Council were read and signed as correct. Four new Members were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The following co-optations were renewed for the year 1947- 1948 :
Brigadier R. C. Firebrace, Mrs Oliver Gatty, Mrs F. Heywood, I)r A. J.
B. Robertson, Professor F. J. M. Stratton, and Mr R. Wilson.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was held at 3
1
Tavistock Square, London, W.C.i, on Wednesday, 25 February 1948, at
3 p.m., under the chairmanship of The President, Mr W. H. Salter.
The Secretary having read the notice convening the Meeting, the
Report of the Council for 1947 was presented, and in the absence of the
Hon. Treasurer who was abroad, Mrs Goldney, a member of the Finance
Committee, presented the accounts, copies of which were handed to
members attending the Meeting.
The President moved the adoption of tlie Report and the Accounts,
and this resolution was seconded by Brigadier R. C, Firebrace, and
carried unanimously.
The Chairman announced that there were no candidates for election
to membership of the Council other than the six members who retired by
rotation. Dr Dingwall enquired whether the Meeting would be given an
opportunity of voting on each of the retiring Council members, and the
President thereupon put each of their names separately to the Meeting
in the order in which they appear on the notice convening the Meeting,
namely. Miss T. Bosanquet, Mrs K. M. Goldney, Dr S. G. Soal, the
Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, Dr R. H. Thouless, and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell.
On a show of hands they were all re-elected by an overwhelming majority.
Messrs Miall, Savage, Avery & Co. were re-elected Auditors for the
forthcoming year.
. GENERAL MEETING
The 190th General Meeting of the Society was held at Manson House,
26 Portland Place, London, W.i, on Saturday, 14 February 1948, at 3
p.ni., when Mr W. H. Salter gave his Presidential Address. The Address
will he published in Proceedings. •'
; .; ,
220 journal of Society for Psychical Research may 1948
SOME EXPERIMENTS IN DIVINING
By D. J. West
There are two main theories of dowsing, the physical and the psychical.
Exponents of the former point of view maintain that the process is a
mechanical one. Water, metals and other things are detected by virtue
of their physical properties. Emanations of one kind or another, which
are given off by these substances, are supposed to affect the neuro-muscular
mechanism of the diviner and result in the twitching of a rod held in the
hand.
According to the psychical theory, the process is a mental one. Move-
ments of the divining rod are produced by subconscious muscular action,
exactly as in the case of a planchette. When the responses occur at the
right places, and the dowser had no normal knowledge of the whereabouts
of what he was searching for, this is accounted for by paranormal
cognition. A point strongly favouring the psychical theory is the fact that
movements of the rod or pendulum often follow the ideas and impressions
of the diviner, rather than the true location of the object. The following
experiments illustrate this principle :
On November 28th, 1946, Mr John Higgins, a professional dowser,
attended at the Society's rooms to demonstrate his powers. He claimed
that by using the appropriate twigs, he could successfully locate minerals,
coins, buried human remains and the site of disease as well as underground
water.
Eighteen similar wooden pill-boxes were provided. In one of them
there had been placed, prior to the experiment, a small piece of copper.
No one present knew which box had contained the metal. The boxes
were spread over a large table, and Mr Higgins held his twig over each in
turn. Over one particular box there was a marked response. This box
was opened but it did not contain the copper. A further attempt was also
wrong. The boxes were then all opened and the copper located. They
were taken to another room, shuffled in the dark, and one of them was
loaded with a farthing. The boxes were again spread on the table, Mr
Higgins made his choice as before but was wrong once again. The boxes
were reshuffled and one was again loaded with a farthing. They were
taken outside into the road, as Mr Higgins said he was much more success-
ful when standing on damp ground. However, for the fourth time his
choice was wrong.
Mr Higgins then put a coin under one of the boxes and held his twig
over it. There was no movement. He said that this showed that it was
the wood of the boxes which was causing his failures. He did not explain
why, if this were so, definite movements were obtained over some of the
boxes.
Mr Higgins then asked D. J. W. to hold out in front of him both fists
clenched, with a copper coin in one. In these circumstances he was able
to locate the coin successfully. He did this about five times in succession.
D. J. W. then went out of the room, returning with his hands in his
pockets, one hand containing a coin. While Mr Higgins was moving
MAY 1948 Some Experiments in Divining 221
round with his twig, D. J. W. carefully looked down with closed eyes so
that he could not tell which pocket the twig was indicating. This
experiment was performed twice and each time Mr Higgins was wrong.
As a last experiment Mr Higgins was sent out of the room. Eight people
present held out their clenched fists. One of the eight held a coin in one
hand. Mr Higgins was brought back and asked to find the coin. When
he came to the hand containing the coin there were violent movements of
his twig, but he was not sufficiently confident to make a definite choice.
The last set of experiments strongly suggest that Mr Higgins, like other
dowsers, was successful only when people present knew the location of
the coin and were in a position to give away normal indicia.
Some rather similar experiments were carried out on April ist, 1948.
D. J. W. was invited to witness the work of a well-known amateur dowser,
Miss O. The house where the experiments took place was well supplied
with water-pipes, and the dowser began by strolling around the house
and grounds finding water about everywhere. She then agreed to do some
dowsing over teacups. A row of five cups was provided, one of which
was filled with salt water. All five were covered over with saucers, and
Miss O. was asked to try and locate the full cup. She obtained a strong
reaction over the first cup, but not the others. Told that this was wrong,
she then got a reaction over another cup, but this was wrong too.
Miss O. thought it might be the fact that the cups were covered over
which caused the failures. D. J. W. therefore arranged another five cups
without saucers, four containing plain water and one containing salt
water, indistinguishable from the others in appearance. Miss O. was
given a cup which she was told was plain water, to make sure that this
would give no reaction. Miss O. then dowsed over the five cups one by
one. Once again a reaction was obtained over a particular cup, but it
was the wrong one. When she was told which was the right cup, she
tried again, and this time got a reaction where previously she had none.
Clearly this was due to knowledge of the true location, and not to a
mechanical response. . - ,
Not all dowsers use twigs or pendulums. Some people say they can
feel " vibrations " directly. Such was the case with Dr X., who contacted
the Society recently, and v/ho had a young lady assistant who was said to
be able to detect " vibrations " from the hum^an body. These vibrations
were supposed to have a focal point or critical distance, which would alter
according to the subject's state of health. It would also alter if the
subject held in the hands bacterial culture of an organism with which he
was infected.
Dr X.'s assistant discovered a culture which she said aitected the
vibrations from D. J. W. The experiment was then tried of having
D. J. W. hold behind his back sometimes this active culture and some-
times one v/hich had no efi^ect. The lady moved her hand about to feel
the vibrations. In these circumstances she was unable to distinguish
between the active culture and the control culture. At a similar experi-
ment at the Society's rooms on March nth, 1948, the lady tried to pick
out two active cultures from amongst ten controls. Both her choices
222 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may 1948
were wrong. When the experiment was repeated with the labels of the
cultures in view, she was right both times.
If the effects were really due to the physical causes to which they were
attributed, it is extraordinary that they should be so often detected wrongly
when the diviner was shut off from normal clues.
. AN UNSUCCESSFUL ATTEMPT TO LOCATE
WATER BY DIVINATION
- By Allen J. Sharp and Denis B. Cameron
In an effort to establish with reasonable certainty the existence of water-
divining as such, the present authors organised on behalf of the King's
College Society for Psychical Research a field test which took place on
the afternoon of April 7th, 1948, near the village of Matfen in Northumber-
land.
The site was carefully chosen, being a field of about 1
1 1 acres, across
which, at a depth averaging 23 feet, was a concrete tunnel, 6 feet in dia-
meter, carrying almost 10 million gallons of water a day, from the
Northumbrian reservoirs to Newcastle. The tunnel had been driven
through all the way and therefore showed no surface indications of its
presence, nor did it follow the lines of natural drainage and could not
therefore be predicted from any geological considerations. The outlet
was completely obscured by some 200 yards of plantation, the only other
surface marker being an air shaft, situated in another plantation more than
half a mile away and itself largely obscured by nearer trees.
The two persons knowing the location of the tunnel on the map were
unable to fix its position in the field with complete accuracy. The
only maps in existence apart from that which had been prepared by
us were in the hands of the chief engineer of the Newcastle and Gateshead
Water Company, Mr S. Barrett.
We engaged for the occasion two professional diviners. The first was
Mr T. W. Davison of Coanwood, near Haltwhistle, a well-known local
dowser who had had some success in informal experiments in coin lo-
cation with the authors of the present report. We took him with us from
Newcastle and not until we had almost reached Matfen was he informed
of our destination. The party assembled at one corner of the field and
the diviner was set off along a diagonal having been told that at some
point he would cross the tunnel. He was accompanied by Dr D. J.
West, Research Officer of the S.P.R., a photographer, and one of our
surveyors carrying pegs to mark the points which he indicated. The rest
of the party, which included Dr Robertson of the Geological Survey of
Great Britain, Professors Poole and Hickling of King's College, New-
castle, heads of the departments of Mining and Geology respectively, and
representatives of the press, followed at a discreet distance. Having fixed
his first point the diviner then marked out what he believed to be the
course of the tunnel. The position of the pegs was immediately fixed by
the surveyors, the first diviner taken from the field and the ground cleared
before the arrival of our second diviner. He, Mr M. Watson of Greyside
near Hexham, had been instructed by letter the previous day to take a bus
MAY 1948 Unsuccessful Attempt to Locate Water 223
to a nearby village where our car would meet him and bring him to the
site.
The procedure was much the same as before and having completed his
test, Mr Watson returned immediately to Hexham. Mr Davison had,
however, pointed out that he had never attempted to find a tunnel before
and while from the outset he made no claims in this direction, he guaranteed
to find any pipeline. As there were none in the immediate vicinit}' of
Matfen we had arranged in the event of his not finding the tunnel to mo\'e
the whole party to a nearby waterworks at Whittle Dene.
It should be remarked that at this stage of the test while the diviners'
locations had not been accurately plotted they were sufficiently far wrong
to be obviously incorrect.
At the waterworks we used a further six locations, the details of which
we do not consider of sufficient importance to record here in view of the
diviner's continued failure. On two occasions he was within a yard of
the correct location but we believe that this was well within the
range of chance coincidence.
It may, however, be of interest to add that a member of the part)-,
Mr Alec Mapletoft, a civil engineer and himself an amateur diviner,
working independently under the super\'ision of Dr Robertson and
Mr Barrett, obtained reactions with his twig over the identical spots
indicated by Mr Davison. On the occasions when he knew the spot to
have been previously selected the effect was probably pure suggestion,
but on certain occasions he could not have seen the diviner and the pegs
had already been removed. We do not consider this to be of evidential
importance as the fact did not come to the knowledge of the authors of
this report until after the test.
In conclusion, therefore, the following points seem outstanding. Both
diviners completely failed to find a large tunnel carrying a very considerable
amount of water. One was equally unsuccessful on a number of pipe
lines varying from 12 inches to 33 inches in diameter.
One feels bound to ask the question, " Was this failure due to the fact
that the precautions which we took and the site which we chose eliminated
all possible clues?"
A NOTE ON THE MASS-OBSERVATION QUESTIONNAIRE ON
HALLUCINATIONS
By D. J. West
In the report which appeared in the March-April issue of the Journal it
was pointed out that the figure given for the percentage of persons who
had experienced hallucinations was probably exaggerated, due to a ten-
dency to select for questioning people who would be likely to give positive
answers.
Professor Dodds has suggested that an indication of the extent of this
error could be obtained by comparing the frequency of positive replies
among the members of the Mass-Observation panel with the frequency
among friends of panel members. If the latter frequency were dis-
224 Journal of Society for Psychical Research MAY 1948
proportionately large it would suggest that panel members had picked out
friends who were more likely to answer " yes " than " no ".
The comparison has been made, with the following result :
Number of persons
claiming
hallucinations
Number of persons
disclaiming
hallucinations
Members of
panel 93 397
(total 490)
Friends of
panel members
(total 1029)
124 905
Clearly, there is a higher percentage of affirmative answers among the
panel members than among those whose replies came second-hand, which
is contrary to what one would expect if there were a positive selection
factor.
This result does not prove that the questionnaire has not overestimated
the frequency of hallucinations. It may be that there was a selection
factor among the panel members themselves. It is possible that many of
those who had had no hallucinations did not reply at all.
Several features may have contributed to the production of a relatively
high frequency of negative replies among the panel's friends. For instance,
they may not have had the same interest in the questionnaire, and have
answered more carelessly, without trying to recollect experiences of long
ago. Among them were a few groups of people, e.g. lecture classes, every
member of which returned a negative reply. These replies may have been
influenced by the attitude of the questioner.
The questionnaire result was intended only as a very rough estimate.
The errors were numerous, but on the whole they tended to cancel each
other out. I fancy that if a larger-scale census were taken by the British
Institute of Public Opinion, for example, the result would not be very
diff'erent.
CORRESPONDENCE
Random Selectors for E.S.P. Experiments
Sir,—An uninformed reader might easily draw from the article by Mr
Wilson in the last number of Proceedings and from Dr Soal's review of
Rhine's new book in the Journal the erroneous conclusion that the only
valid method of testing extra-sensory perception is by the use of a
randomised pack of cards or series of numbers, and that all tests done with
packs such as those used by Rhine and his associates with a fixed number
of each kind of card in the pack are necessarily invalid. On the contrary,
any kind of original material can give valid results if it is assessed by
correct methods ; what one must avoid is error due to the use of a
MAY 1948 CoiTcspondence 225
method of assessment assuming a distribution different from that actuallv
employed.
Dr Soal points out that, in order to employ the binomial distribution
formula, one must obtain a mathematically random sequence of card
symbols. Perhaps he assumes rather more statistical knowledge in his
readers than many of them have when he omits to mention : (i) that this
necessity arises only in connection with the variance and not with the
mean chance expectation which will be exactly five in a Zener (5 •-.5)
pack (although not necessarily in a randomised pack), (2) that the error in
calculating the variance for a (5 5) pack from the binomial formula will
be in the direction of over-estimating the variance and consequently of
under-estimating the significance of any deviation, so the validity of any
result found significant by this method will not be affected, (3) that such
error will only occur if the subjects deviate widely from equal guesses of
the symbols and in practice is found to be veiy small (in my Glasgow
repetition in 1939 of Rhine's experiments
—
Proceedings, xlv, Part 159
—
I found a standard error of 1-93 which does not differ significantly from
the value of 2-00 expected from the binomial distribution) and, (4) that if
it were important to avoid this error, this could easily be done either by
using the empirical variance or by calculating the variance theoretically
by a more complex method which took into account the actual distribution
of the subject's guesses. Since the direction of error is such that it might
lead one (if it were of appreciable size) to miss a real effect but not to
conclude that there was a real effect when really there was none, it is
understandable that those who have used non-randomised packs have
used the variance based on the binomial distribution. This in no way
affects the validity of their results.
Mr Wilson seems to go further since he says that, for the statistics to
be valid, the probability of any event occurring must be independent of
any previous events. Taken in its context this seems to imply that even
the mean chance expectation will not be five with a Zener pack of finite
size. This is plainly wrong. The chance expectation may not be five
with a randomised pack, hence the necessity for the use of Stevens'
method, but the necessity does not arise if there are five of each symbol in
the pack since the mean chance expectation is then always five and is
unaffected by how the subject distributes his guesses over the five symbols.
It is necessary, of course, that the subject should not be told his successes,
but this is never done now.
The method originated by Soal of having randomised packs may have
advantages which outweigh its inconveniences. Mr Wilson's ingenious
machine may also have advantages, but I think it is a mistake to commend
what may be a real improvement in method by exaggerating the defects of
other simpler methods. This is certainly done when it is suggested that
the statistics used in these simpler methods are invalid.
Yours etc.,
, . " R. H. Thouless
226 / I- Journal of Society for Psychical Research may 1948
Result of the Prize Offer to Physical Mediums
Sir,—I am prompted by the notes on " The Result of the Prize Offer
to Physical Mediums " in the January issue of the Journal to voice some
of my misgivings over methods and conditions of research.
If we read this report, we get an impression that alleged physical
mediums are either afraid of being investigated, or else that they are too
superior to condescend. Actually, I suggest, they may be using common-
sense in refusing, in some cases, to be lured into a completely false position.
Granted that there may be some deliberate and conscious frauds
among them, as well as some others who may be unconscious of their
trickery. But there are in fact very few mediums, if any, in this country,
who can produce genuine physical phenomena even under the best
conditions. It is quite another matter, and merely adding to the un-
certainties of their exhibitions, to put them under test conditions. It is
obviously absurd to make the claim that the mediums are " allowed to
sit uncontrolled and under their own conditions ". A smattering of
psychological understanding shows that this is not so. For even if the
medium is not stripped and searched, and is allowed to sit in his own
rooms, there are matters involved which should be quite obvious to the
merest beginner in psychological and psychical studies. For instance,
how can it be said that the conditions are of the medium's own making,
when he knows he is under test? Consciously, he may accept the test.
But this does not mean that he is not nervous and tense under the surface,
hence, in a condition which will make dissociation into trance more diffi-
cult, and tend to inhibit the occurrence of phenomena. And this must
ipso facto hold good even when the crudities of infra-red telescopes and
the like are not used.
Then there is the state of mind of the investigator himself : a thing
which many sensitive people complain of. For if a person be psychically
sensitive, he must be affected by this. And unless the investigator is
thoroughly well trained in self-awareness, and unless he has the truly open
mind only to be found among few people, it is quite natural that the
medium should shy away from the kind of mental pressure to which he
finds himself being submitted.
This may make it appear as if I were defending the medium and
decrying the critical attitude. This is not so. But what I am trying to say
is that the non-occurrence of phenomena may be due, not to any failure of
the medium, but to the failure of the investigator to pay enough attention
to the conditions he himself creates. Hence we have a self-cancelling
system in which positive results would be surprising.
In short, the medium who refuses to be investigated may in fact show
more understanding of psvchic matters than either those who lend them-
selves to it, or than the investigator himself.
Then there is another matter which worries me, and that is the casual
way in which some research workers rush in where angels would rightly
fear to tread, considering the damage which may result from their
investigations. I recently had a letter asking me to send in the names of
any people who might be willing to be hypnotised for investigation
purposes. I firmly but, I hope, politely declined, giving my reasons for
MAY 1948 Correspondence 227
this—such reasons as are well-known to people versed in psychopathology
and psychiatry, but apparently not to the investigator in question. I
share the view of Dr William Brown among others, that hypnosis is a
therapeutic method to be used only in a few cases for which it is suitable
and for which other methods are unsuccessful. The test, anyhow, is
whether the patient becomes more integrated, and hence less easy to
hypnotise each time. I therefore consider it unethical to hypnotise
people merely to satisfy one's curiosity. For hypnosis is like surgery :
it may have to be used for therapeutic ends. But, like surgery, it does
harm to the patient : it dissociates him. If a person can be hypnotised,
he must be of the type which dissociates easily. Hence, hypnosis is likely
to make active, or to aggravate, latent hysteria. The excuse that the victim
lends himself willingly is not valid, for the simple reason that he does not
realise what is being done to him, and is probably, by the xtry nature of
his make-up, unconscious of the results on himself. IVIoreover, he probably
takes it for granted that the person who makes use of him would not do
anything harmful to him.
These are examples of matters which lead either to waste of time and
energy or else to unjustifiable damage to people. And both are based on
lack of psychological understanding. I contend that no person should
venture beyond the outermost fringes of experimental psychical research
{i.e. experiments in precognition, etc., under normal conditions and in
full consciousness) without a very thorough groundwork in psycho-
pathology. -"Vnd even further, I should not consider a person either
useful or safe in this field unless he himself were very thoroughly aware
of himself and had undergone a course of self-analysis under the tuition
of a reputable psychotherapist.
Yours etc.,
Laurence J. Bendit, M.D., D.P.M.
Sir,—I am obliged to Dr Bendit for letting me see his letter. He
suggests that the failure of the physical mediums to produce results in
recent seances at the Society's headquarters may be due to the attitude of
the investigator. Other members have formed a similar opinion. Mrs
Richmond, writing to me with reference to Mrs Seccombe, one of the
mediums tested, says :
" I am glad you did not know I was a friend [of Mrs Seccombe], as
you would then have kindly let me know what was going forward, and l
think, as her friend, I would have had to advise her not to come as it was
a foregone conclusion that no results of a satisfactorv nature would result.
" 1 would like to try and explain that statement. I know you are
perfectly sincere, consciously, in your desire to find out the truth, and get
results, if they are to be got—but it seems more than likely that you will
never get any results till you become aware of your very strong unconscious
desire not to get any. This, of course, can influence results whether you
are actually present or not. You are conducting the experiments, so vour
unconscious will affect the mediums, in a telepathic way, whether in the
room with them or not.
" You know how useless it is trying to make a Fascist or anti-Semitic
228 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may 1948
person see reason, consciously ; their prejudice is so strong, it is like
trying to argue with a gramophone record—you simply can't make them
see. Well, it seems something of this order happens unconsciously
between mediums and many Research Officers, and nothing happens.
In neither case, no results! PerJiaps, in both cases, there is a slight negative
result in that antagonism is aroused. I know I felt definitely hostile when
discussing Jews with a confirmed anti-Semite. But luckily unconscious
processes are not obvious and I'm sure you and Mrs Seccombe parted in
a most friendly manner.
" I hope you Vv^on't mind my frankness. I can't help feeling that some
members will get '
fed up '
if our Research Officer never gets a;iy results.
It all seems such waste of time and money." .
' ;
I do not think that in the case of physical mediums these conclusions
are justified by the facts. Mr William Roy, one of the mediums in
question, produced considerable trumpet movements and " voices " at a
seance at the International Institute for Experimental Metaphysics at
which I was present. The circle there contained a much higher propor-
tion of sceptically-minded persons than the circle with which Mr Roy
sat at the Society. The same medium has been able to give public
demonstrations of the " direct voice " from inside a dark cabinet on the
theatre stage. The audience at these performances must sometimes con-
tain people who are really antagonistic, but the " trance state " comes
and the " voices " are heard promptly and infallibly.
The precautions taken by the investigators, not their state of mind, is
the cause of the stoppage of " phenomena ".
Dr Bendit further suggests that the mere taking of precautions, and the
fact that the medium knows he is under test, may be suflicient to prevent
any result. If this were true, it would be impossible to investigate
physical mediums at all, except by introducing tests surreptitiously, a
procedure that would be open to the criticism that it involved deceiving
and trapping the medium. Dr Bendit suggests no alternative. Fortunately,
I don't think the proposition is true. Those mediums who have had the
best claim to paranormal physical powers have been able to withstand all
kinds of tests. Rudi Schneider, for instance, cheerfully submitted to end-
less appliances and precautions without his phenomena being inhibited.
He also sat happily with many sceptics, although his control objected to
Dr William Brown who, apparently, is one of those Dr Bendit would
have thought most suitable.
Of course, it would be senseless not to try to put mediums at their ease
and adjust the conditions of the seance to what they like best. I fully
agree, and this is always done. Mediums who visit the Society are invari-
ably treated as privileged guests, their comfort and refreshment is a first
consideration, and everything possible is done to promote a friendly
atmosphere. I do not think that conscientious and sincere investigators
need do more than this. The more subtle influences postulated by Dr
Bendit and Mrs Richmond may be no more than subtle excuses to escape
the obvious fact that the physical medium cannot substantiate his claims.
Dr Bendit says there are few mediums, if any, in this country, who
can produce genuine physical phenomena. Does this mean he believes
AL\Y 1948 Correspondence 229
the numerous physical mediums who give seances in London and in
spirituaUst circles all over the country- are fraudulent? If so, I would
submit that if Dr Bendit were investigating he would be just as likely to
subject a medium to adverse " mental pressure " as any of those who
were present at the S.P.R. sittings.
While on the subject of the investigation of Air Roy and other
physical mediums, I should like to take this opportunity to correct an
extraordinary rumour which several people tell me they have heard in
spiritualist circles. According to this rumour, Air Roy was stripped and
shaved and generally treated very unsympathetically. It is said that there
Avas an interruption in the middle of the sitting and that he sustained
injury.
The facts are these : Mr Roy was neither stripped nor searched, but
came in and sat down in his ordinary clothes. Two spiritualists from
Leeds who wanted to make enquiries were admitted by the caretaker and
were show^n into a room next door to the seance room. Hearing a seance
beginning, and wanting ver\' much to attend it, thev tapped on the door.
I said, " Go away, we are engaged." The medium was not yet in a
trance. That is all. Later, during the seance. Air Roy slumped forward
olf his chair on to the ground. He said afterwards a chair with arms
would have prevented this, but at the com.mencement, when he was
asked if there was anything he wanted, he made no request of this kind.
He told us at the time that apart from this the conditions had been
perfectly satisfactor}".
The second part of Dr Bendit's letter refers to my recent appeal for
volunteers to be hypnotised for investigation purposes. Admittedly, the
indiscriminate use of hypnotic suggestion with persons with an abnormal
tendency to dissociation would be most reprehensible, but the present
experiments are being conducted by persons with psychological training,
and such obvious mistakes would be avoided.
Dr Bendit's point seems to be that all hypnosis is dangerous, and that
it is unethical to employ it except for therapeutic purposes. I do not
agree, and neither would a great many psychiatrists. Investigations in
non-therapeutic hypnotism have been conducted at the Alaudsley hospital
and elsewhere by psychiatrists themselves. There is a vast literature on
hypnotism, much of it vv ritten by psychologists and psychotherapists, but
one would need to look very far before finding a statement of Dr Bendit's
opinion on the harmfulness of hypnosis.
Hypnotism as a subject for investigation is laid down as falling within
the province of the Society's work. I venture to suggest that, had it not
been for the experiments of Edmund Gurney and other investigators into
hypnotism, which were certainly not motivated bv idle " curiosity ",
much of the psychopathology which Dr Bendit finds so useful w'ould not
have come into being.
I agree that training in psychology- is essential for a psychical researcher.
Dr Bendit goes further and urges a course of analysis. Here, perhaps, he
shows the specialist's partiality for his own particular branch of work.
From meeting and discussing with people who have subjected themselves
23° Journal of Society fw Psychical Research may 1948
to one school of analyst or another, I am not convinced that they always
come out of their experience better able to deal with .psychological matters.
. . Yours etc.,
,
'
. D. J. West
A Significant Book Test
Sir,—Having read the account in the December Proceedings by the
Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, I am by no means convinced of its being " A
Significant Book Test ". While it might reasonably be called remarkable,
its apparent significance is obviously due to the presentation rather than
to the evidence, which, I believe, is in fact purely general.
The Loose Page
Feda states, " There used to be something kept in the book that could
be slipped in and out." The medium already knew that the book had
marginal notes, and it would be safe to say that in nine cases out of ten,
such a book would also have been used as a depository for letters and
clippings. At a subsequent sitting Feda adds, " There was a loose page,
and he thinks it was not quite the same size as the other pages. There
was a dissimilarity, and was it not of a difi^erent texture, a different class
of paper too?—It was just placed in, but did not really belong to it. If
you felt its surface you would know at once that it was not really part of
the book." All this information is merely inferential upon the previous
assumption that the book contained a letter or cutting.
Feda continues, " Has it got creased or folded? " This would be
generally applicable particularly in the case of a letter. Now we come to
the " important " passage, " He says lines going the opposite way to the
book, . .
." If we consider this for a moment it is quite obvious. Since
the most popular size of paper is quarto, which will not go flat into the
average book, it is usual to fold it longways and insert it with the writing
opposite to the direction of the type.
Feda also states, " I wondered whether he had numbered the page ;
for there is something in his mind about a number. He thinks that when
you look at it you will say '
I wonder why this was put in here '." Many
people number the pages of a letter, and it is also conceivable that a
cutting would be numbered on the spot as a reference for future insertion.
Now Feda says, " There should be something on it which is not strictly
connected with the book. Something is, but something is not." This
would be a safe prediction in the case of a cutting, as the opposite side
would probably be quite irrelevant. With a letter the chances would be
fairly even.
The Coloured Sheets .
•
'
Feda says, " Inside the book are two coloured sheets, as if the paper
was either of two qualities, or faded and tinted a little ; on opening
the book you distinctly see this deeper shade." Most books published
about this period, and especially collections of poems, have coloured
flyleaves, . . . .
MAY 1948 Correspondence 231
The Proximity to Tennyson
Feda, " Tennyson, has it been put near the works of Tennyson, or has
Aunt been thinking a good deal of Tennyson lately ?
" Tennyson
being a standard work would be most likely to occur in a collection of
books including Bvron. On my own book shelves the two stand only a
few inches apart.
The Illustrations
Feda :
" Uncle Alfred has an idea that this book has illustrations ; he
remembers some of them. Byrons are not usuall} illustrated." The
latter remark is not strictly true. Most collections of poems at least bear
a frontispiece.
To test the points which I have made I selected at random a rather
antiquated manual of geology which I recollected as having marginal
notes. Following the points set out by the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas :
1 . The volume had two pages of a colour different from the rest (blue
flyleaves), also illustrations (hardly a fair comparison in this instance)
and a special inserted page (a cutting on limestone formation).
2. One page was of a size different from those of the book and of
another texture (the cutting).
3. It had been creased or folded.
4. Some of the writing ran in a direction other than that of the book (a
note had been pencilled along the margin of the cutting) and,
5. alluded to a subject not strictly connected with geology (some
mathematical problems on the opposite side of the cutting).
6. There was a number on this page (a reference for insertion).
Had the information been spontaneous it might have been counted
significant, but it must be remembered that the medium had almost three
weeks in which to think out these apparently evidential but actually
obvious facts.
Yours etc.,
Allen J. Sharp
Emergence of a Pseudo-Personality
Sir,—In the Journal for February last, Mrs Heywood describes a
sitting with the trance medium Edith Thompson. Her account deserves
careful study, for in the space of two and a half pages she has given us
instructive illustrations of almost all the known defects of reports on
sittings with mediums.
Mrs Heywood arranged the sitting in order to try to obtain information
about a German friend called Rupert, from whom she had not heard
since the war. The medium gave some messages which seemed to come
from this friend. Some attempts were made to give the name of the
communicator. First the name " Robin " was tentatively put forward.
Later the control said " The name is R—there's a P—Rupert". Mrs
Heywood remarks that this was with " no help whatever from me ",
although ten lines previously she reported that she used the words " You
must remember, Rupert, that I cannot see you ".
232 Journal of Society for Psychical Research MAY 1948
Doubtless this astonishing lapse was a slip of the pen, which Mrs
Heywood overlooked ; but a similar slip of the tongue during the course
of the sitting might just as easily have passed unnoticed. It does not so
much matter how such m.istakes arise : that they do arise at all is in itself
sufficient to make the rest of the materia! suspect. In this particular case
we are fortunate to be able to detect the error ; but one can hardly dare
to wonder how many similar but undetectable errors may remain hidden
in such a report.
Mrs Heywood says the sitting was a long one and she only noted the
salient points. It is, therefore, a fair assumption that there were many
items not quoted which the sitter did not place. This fact alone takes
awa) from the report all its value as a piece of scientific evidence. Every
investigator knows that it is the small details of a sitting, the unobtrusive
steps, leading up to the main successes, which are most revealing. What at
the time seem salient points are not necessarily representative of the sitting
as a whole. It is impossible to judge selected statements removed from
their context.
Let us examine the points noted bv Mrs Heywood, and see how many
of them appear by common sense standards to be indisputably para-
normal. First there is the statement about a young man, Robert, who
passed over as a result of chest trouble. But this is nothing unusual : I
know someone who fits that description—except that he was not particu-
larly young when he died.
The name " Rupert " did not come as a iirst shot. Robin was the first
attempt. Maybe there was something in the way the sitter rece!\"ed this
name that told the medium she was somewhere near the mark, so that she
came out with R—P—Rupert as a likely guess. The communicator
remarked that he had time for contemplation in the next world and talked
about time being an illusion : but these are commonplaces in spirit
philosophy and not evidence of identity. That the sitter had a letter from
the communicator in her handbag would be likely to be true of a high
percentage of ladies who come to consult a medium. A wall or protection
round a garden (it is Mrs Heywood, not Mrs Thompson, who puts the
garden in the U.S.A.), walks by the river and being fond of music are all
so common that even in combination they add little or nothing to the
evidence. The description of Rupert's personal appearance and his
manner of death were both wrong. The point about something spilt on a
carpet was not placed.
The reference to walking a plank is the first interesting item ; it recalled
to Mrs Heywood an incident in which the phrase would be reasonably
applicable. Of course we can all place situations of this kind, but not
perhaps with a particular friend taken at random. It is noticeable,
however, that this statement was preceded by the item about walks by a
river. The fact that the sitter had not refused the preliminary statement
made the second item less improbable. This item and the allusion to the
letter P in the surname are about the most specific, but selected from a
" long sitting " they are utterly inconclusive. •
" Stefan, a rebel against tyranny " was a reasonable guess after Mrs
Heywood had acknowledged some foreign associations. The description
fitted the man Mrs Heywood had in mind particularly well, but this point
M.W' 1948 Correspondence 233
has little value when the medium's statement would have been true to
some extent (and would no doubt have been marked successful) for
almost all Europeans with English friends.
The names " Grace, Cicely, and Natalie ", said gropingly, of which the
last happened to fit, are of little interest except, perhaps, to show how
mediums fit their guesses to the type of sitter they are dealing with. A
different class of sitter would probably have had something more like
" Mary, Doris, Joan ". Presumably Mrs Heywood assented to the name
Natalie, after which the medium felt confident enough to assert that she
was " with Rupert ".
Nowhere does Mrs Heywood tell us whether the sitting was booked
anonymously, or whether it was her first sitting, or whether in her
conversation with the medium she mentioned that she travelled about
Europe. Mrs Heywood does admit that she mentioned her husband, and
towards the end of the sitting the medium came out with the name
" Poppet " and later with the statement " Frank (the husband) is Poppet ".
Now Poppet is not a very uncommon nickname. It so happens that I
know a lady who calls her husband by that name. Once Mrs Heywood
had acknowledged Poppet, it was a reasonable chance that it referred to
her husband. The item would be stronger if we could be assured that
Poppet was a name genuine^ associated by Mrs Heywood with her
husband (not just something she happened to call him on an odd occasion)
and that Mrs Thompson had never seen her with her husband and heard
the name in conversation.
Although the sitting might be held to justify further investigation, Mrs
Heywood's enthusiasm and the discussion of whether the mechanism was
telepathic or spiritistic seem premature. Some of Mrs Thompson's other
sittings have had discouraging results. If there is something about Mrs
Heywood which precipitates good results in an otherwise unsuccessful
medium, she W'ould be doing psychical research a service if next time she
took with her an expert notetaker.
Mrs Heywood concludes that "Normal leakage seems incredible, and
it is hard to imagine how Mrs Thompson could have got the names she
did otherwise than by E.S.P." Unfortunately for me I have a more
vivid imagination than Mrs Heywood in this respect. Throughout this
report there is not the slightest attempt to make clear the points which
are needed before it is possible to judge whether leakage was possible.
Even more regrettable—and surprising for a researcher of her standing
—
Mrs Heywood does not appear even to recognise that these points are
relevant. " Evidence " of this sort almost makes one despair of psychical
research. What is the use of collecting year after year, volumes of
material, criticising it, scrutinising it, even subjecting it to statistical
analysis, writing reports, articles and books about it, and running a large
society for the purpose of investigating it, if the material itself is to be
presented in such a slip-shod way as to give it no more value than a
newspaper report?
In her recent correspondence in the Journal, Mrs Heywood asked for
a lov/ering of the standards of evidence demanded for publication of cases
by the Society, with the reservation that the Editor should insert a footnote
explaining that these cases should not be considered as evidence for the
^34 .
' Journal of Society for Psychical Research may 1948
paranormal. To the naive reader this must have seemed harmless enough.
Perhaps now he will realise what are the real issues involved. If, while
the Society's publications still demand a " high " standard, " cases " like
Mrs Heywood's experience with Mrs Thompson can be included without
comment from the Editor, what is to become of our reputation as a scientific
body if even these miserable standards are to be lowered still further?
I urge you, Sir, far from lowering the standards, to raise them far
above their present level, until they are as high as, or higher than, the
standards of an ordinary scientific journal. The prestige of the Society
is at stake.
Yours etc.,
J. D. Proctor
Sir,—Thank you for Mr Proctor's letter. I have handed him my head
on a platter by the idiotic insertion of the name, Rupert, which he quotes
from my report of a sitting with Mrs Thompson. I deserve his castigation
and am only grateful that he suggests it may have been a slip of the pen.
This, as it was not in my notes, I dare to hope it was. It may well raise
doubts in his mind about other points. I realise that I over-condensed
what was intended to be a negative report. I did not, for instance, think
that the words " Mrs Thompson, did not know me " could suggest that
she might have had the opportunity to do anticipatory sleuthwork or to
have heard me call my husband by his pet name in the family circle. I
can, fortunately, at least assure him that the sitting—my first—was booked
anonymously at the L.S.A. Mrs Thompson did not know whether to
expect a man or a woman. She had never met me or my husband.
I went accompanied by a member of the S.P.R. Council as notetaker,
but we learned on arrival that the control was temperamental about un-
familiar notetakers. Having reacted to strangers that way myself in my
slight experience as a sensitive, I think the assumption mistaken that such
an attitude must be due to fraudulent intentions. I therefore decided
simply to make friendly contact at the sitting, and attempt another, with
an agreed-upon notetaker, later on. I did not report these details as my
motive was neither enthusiasm, the desire to produce scientific evidence,
nor to suggest the possibility of spiritistic mechanism. It was simply to
show once more how a sitting, which might have appeared suggestive of
identity to the average sitter, though naturally not to anyone of Mr
Proctor's standards, contained in fact no more than a build-up of a pseudo-
personality. I found it interesting that this build-up was partly achieved
by the exercise of apparent E.S.P. but whether the control got its informa-
tion by deduction, sleuth work or E.S.P. was not the point I was trying to
bring out. This was a warning, which I had hoped to dramatise by
making known only at the end the fact that " Rupert " was a fake, since
Rupert was still flourishing in this world. So ill did I succeed that Mr
Proctor apparently got the impression that I was offering naive evidence
of the " unproven " faculty of E.S.P. This was not so. Forty years
experience of the faculty in myself, corroborated evidence of it in my
friends, the printed evidence which tallies with our experiences, and the
deductions drawn from it by scientifically eminent men, have convinced
me, not only that it is a proven fact, but that anyone who denies it either
MAY 1948 Correspondence 235
has his judgment impaired by emotional bias, or, as Professor Broad says,
has not read the evidence. I therefore do not think it necessary to try
and re-prove it every time I refer to it, for the benefit of people who
appear to have come to rest on the science of fifty years ago and whose
views in any case are unhkely to be afi"ected by further evidence. This,
naturally, does not lessen my desire for repeatable evidence, by means of
which to study the nature of a faculty which is, particularly for those who
have never experienced it, maddeningly elusive.
Mr Proctor seeks to examine whether any individual point was
" indisputably paranormal ". (Is E.S.P. still paranormal? Are we sure
we are asking the right questions.-' As Professor H. H. Price says :
"... We may have to . . . puzzle ourselves, not about extra sensory
perception but rather about normal sense perception, treating it, not as
normal but rather as a sub-normal and biologically explicable limitation
imposed upon an inherent and aboriginal omniscience.") But surely any
individual point might have been chance coincidence.? It is taken
together, and E.S.P. being an accepted fact, that I find it less strain on my
imagination to attribute them to E.S.P. than to sleuthwork about an
unknown sitter, .several chance coincidences, or information I consider
I did not give the medium. My slip fully entitles Mr Proctor to doubt my
reliability. It does not affect the point that it is unreasonable always to
assume an accepted faculty to be a less probable explanation than a series
of remarkable coincidences.
Two points puzzle me. On what principle does Mr Proctor deduce
that my friends are more likely to be called Cicely, Grace or Natalie, than
Mary, Doris or Joan.? As it happens I have three friends called Mary,
one, Doris and one, Joan ; but none called Grace or Cicely. And why
does he say in one sentence that some of Mrs Thompson's sittings have
been discouraging and in the next that she is an unsuccessful medium.?
To demand 100 per cent, success in any line of life seems a little exacting.
I would like to thank Mr Proctor for his valuable scrutiny, criticism and
analysis of my little report, from which I have learnt much. I hope he
will soon give us some reports of experimental work and of sittings
conducted by himself, as they would, I feel, even if the results have all
been negative, help to raise our standards of work.
Yours etc.,
Rosalind Heywood
The Pendulum Experiment •
Sir,—We welcome Mr Cuddon's repudiation of the intention to prove
anything by the pendulum experiment reported in the October-November
number of this Journal. We seem, however, not to have succeeded in
making clear the exact point of our criticism. The implication that he
had proved that pendulums could not be moved by psychic force was
contained in the last paragraph but one of his Report, in which he finds it
" remarkable " that even after he had explained how the trick was done
" there were still two people in the audience . . . who insisted that the
pendulums could be moved by the power of thought alone ". Not, be it
noted, that Mr Cuddon had so moved them but that they could be. Why
236 •
Journal of Society for Psychical Research MAY 1948
should Mr Cuddon iind this remarkable unless he thought that his experi-
ment and its explanation had disproved this possibility? He now dis-
claims this implication. Our modest effort to obtain clarification of his
meaning is justified by this recantation. It is worth taking some trouble
to find out exactly what an experiment proves. We have no quarrel with
Mr Cuddon's position as stated in his letter ;
obviously his sitters were
too easily convinced of the paranormal origin of the movements.
There seems in the last paragraph of Mr Cuddon's letter to be some
misunderstanding of the typical experimental situation. In no properly
designed experiment is it necessary to assume the good faith of the subject
and, in fact, one does not do so. Where one has the right to assume good
faith is in the reports made by other experimenters ; that is necessary
unless each of us is to draw conclusions only from his own work. One's
mind must, of course, remain open to the possibility in a particular case
of a conspiracy to deceive, and one makes the best judgment one can,
based cn the scientific standing of the experimenter, his previous record
as to honesty and reliability, our own judgment as to the adequacy of his
methods, etc. In accepting the truthfulness of Mr Cuddon's original
statement that the pendulums were moved paranormally, the audience
were only treating his statements as one normally can those of a reputable
experimenter. In their defence it must be remembered that they had very
little to base tlieir opinions on except those statements ; the experiment
itself was obviously not performed under critical conditions but the
audience were not asked whether they thought the experiment they had
seen proved that the pendulums had been m.oved paranormally.
Mrs Goldney's astonishment at our reference to Dr Winther's work
seems misplaced. We suggested that the ' two people who remained
unconvinced that the pendulums could not be moved by thought alone
may have been influenced by their knowledge of Dr Winther's experi-
ments. Why not? They may not have shared Mrs Goldney's poor
opinion of Dr Winther's experimental conditions. They may not even
have heard of the rumour to which Mrs Goklney refers. Or they may have
heard of it and have had sufficient critical judgment to be unconvinced by
a condemnation of his work from anonymous " responsible quarters " on
grounds unspecified. Credulity has its limits and this may have sounded to
them too much like the war-time evidence of " my aunt's charwoman v/ho
knovv's someone who works in the office of someone high up who says . . .
".
We also find ourselves unable to agree with the further argument of
Mrs Goldney that there is a mental discipline of psychical researchers
which should have enabled the audience in the absence of evidence to
have been certain that the pendulums were not moved by " psychic
force ". This argument seems to depend on the obviously erroneous
assumptions that if the demonstrable occurrence of psychic phenomena is
rare then psychic phenomena must be rare, and that if two explanations
are possible but of unequal probability then one can be certain that the
more probable is the true one. Both assumptions seem opposed to
common sense. Undoubtedly one cannot be certain of a paranormal
explanation unless all normal possibilities of explanation are excluded, but
neither can one be certain of a normal explanation unless the possibility
of a paranormal explanation can be excluded. '
MAY 1948 Correspondence 237
The true mental discipline of the psychical researcher would keep his
mind open where Mrs Goldney's rules would close it. Unjustified
certainty in denying the paranormal is no more the road to truth than
unjustified certainty in affirming it. In other words, psychical researchers
must use their common sense and make the best judgments they can
when evidence is incomplete, and must hold the opinions based on those
judgments with no more and no less certainty that the evidence warrants.
Yours etc.,
•
R. H. Thouless
. - B. P. WiESNER
Sir,—I cannot understand why Drs Thouless and Wiesner should
repeatedly imply that my argument concerned " certainty " that the
pendulums were not moved by psychic force. For I specificallv wrote in
my earlier letter (January issue) " Mr Cuddon's experiment was not
designed to prove anything in connection with the movement of
pendulums ", and " Of course '
I don't know '
was the final answer to
Mr Cuddon's question, but the audience had been asked to state what
they thought (italics in original) was the cause of the pendulums' move-
ment ". Nowhere in my earlier letter do I use the word " certainty ", or
anywhere imply certainty ;
yet Drs Thouless and Wiesner use this word
and impute this as my meaning five times in a few lines. This repeated
distortion of what I said confuses the issue and does not help readers to
assess the value of opposing viewpoints.
I must maintain my argument that, demonstrable psi being as rare as
it is, one should " postulate a normal explanation in preference to psi''
when invited to make a choice in an uncontrolled experiment—let alone
in the obviously music-hall setting purposely staged by Mr Cuddon for
an informal occasion. If Drs Thouless and Wiesner do not agree with
what I consider to be a disciplined and common-sense attitude, then we
must agree to differ.
Further, in their criticism of Mr Cuddon, they continue to overlook
the point I made in my last letter ; that there was no question of real
deception of the audience, since they were expressly given alternatives
from which to select, one of which was that the movement of the
pendulums was caused by the table being pushed by Mr Cuddon and his
accomplices.
Yours etc.,
K. M. GOLDNEY
REVIEW
The Kingdom of the Lost. By J. A. H. Ogdon. (London : The
Bodley Head. 1947.)
Mr Howard Ogdon, a teacher by profession and a graduate of London
University, is plainly a man of wide reading and culture, with a gift for
clear exposition and vivid description. His book is the true story of a
certifieci schizophrenic patient who escapes from a mental hospital and
recovers his sanity outside. The manifestations of the disease—depres-
238 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may i 948
sions, delusions, obsessions, etc.—are recounted as personal experiences.
In this form they make far more fascinating reading than the dry catalogue
of symptoms to be found in the average textbook.
Conditions in a typical County Mental Hospital, considered from the
patient's point of view, are shown to be in need of reform. In this section
of the book the carefully factual tone, and the writer's obvious under-
statement of his grievances, carry considerable conviction.
Mr Ogdon is a believer in the widespread influence of telepathy, and
his account includes several psychic episodes which might well have been
added to the illustrations in Dr Ehrenwald's Telepathy and Medical
Psychology} For example, the writer describes how one Sunday evening
while listening to some church bells, he had an almost irresistible impulse
to throw himself out of an attic window. Later that same evening someone
called and said that one of the bell-ringers had killed himself by jumping
off a bridge. In another instance quoted by the writer there was a sudden
epidemic of attempted escapes at the time he was secretly planning his own
get-away, and he felt sure this must be due to his own telepathic influence
on the other patients. Against this theory must be set the admitted fact
that a feeling of being able to influence others from a distance was one of
the delusions of his disease.
Mr Ogdon claims to have noticed other strange powers in himself and
other patients. There was the man who, without appearing to consult
a clock, had a fit of shouting every day at precisely the same time. As a
result of a lunatic impulse Mr Ogdon himself several times knocked off a
patient's hat with a cricket ball, a feat which would have been impossible
for him in a normal state of health.
When the time came for his great escape, Mr Ogdon gave up his plans
for a nocturnal break-away. Instead he merely strolled straight out of the
place without being challenged by anyone. He attributes the success of
this technique to Yoga exercises which he believes rendered him un-
noticeable to observers. Sceptical readers may prefer to believe it was
the sheer brazenness of his behaviour which prevented anyone accosting
him, and may classify his alleged invisibility as one of those delusions
which, he tells us, sometimes persist as isolated features after the mind as
a whole has recovered. D. J. West
OBITUARY : MR HARRY PRICE
To the general public no one engaged in psychical research was. better
known than Mr Harry Price, whose death was recorded in the press on
March 30th. Mr Price, who had since his boyhood kept up a keen interest
in psychical matters, joined the Society in 1920, and shortly afterwards
became prominent in the Society by his exposure of Mr William Hope,
the " spirit " photographer, reported in the Journal for May 1922. Conan
Doyle took up the cudgels on behalf of Hope, and for a time the
controversy over " The Crew Circle " tended to obscure more important
developments in psychical research.
Mr Price was by temperament essentially a free-lance, and acting as
such he was able to pursue methods of investigation and publicity which
^Reviewed in the Journal for March-April, 1948.
MAY 1948 ~
Obituary 239
would have been incompatible with work conducted luidcr the auspices of
an old-established Society. One need only mention the entertaining
episode of the Brocken related in Confessions of a Gliost-liiDiter.
It would, however, be unfair to Mr Price to suggest that all his investiga-
tions were of this nature, lie had a very genuine interest in the physical
phenomena of the seance room and in poltergeists, and his knowledge of
conjuring and his skill in devising and working various systems of
mechanical control made him formidable to the fraudulent medium. The
results of his investigations were presented to the public in a series of
articles in the Bulletins of the National Laboratory for Psychical
Investigation (later the London LTniversity Council for Psychical
Investigation) and in various books, all of which were admirably produced
and illustrated by photographs of a very high order. By these publications,
by his lectures, and by his close contact with officials of the B.B.C., he
succeeded in interesting in the particular aspects of psychical research
with which he was most conversant a very large public to whom a more
philosophic approach to the central problems of our subject would have
made no appeal. His handling of the Borley Rectory affair is a good
example both of his qualities and his defects as a free-lance investigator.
To one side of the account must be set his enterprise in obtaining for a
time exclusive control of the site, and his diligence both in enquiring into
the long and curious history of the haunt and in paying numerous visits
to Borley during the later periods of its occurrence. On the other side
must be set his unwillingness to invite other experts in psychical research
to participate in the investigation. It is possible that an approach to the
problem more in accordance with the methods of our Society might have
produced results not less interesting and far more conclusive.
He rendered an important service to psychical research in putting other
investigators in touch with prominent mediums an3 sensitives, and by
inviting them to seances he gave many of them their first practical experi-
ence of that side of our subject. He was a great book-lover and collected
a valuable library of books on psychical research and some other subjects,
whicli was for a time houseti on tlie Society's premises.
* * *
In the Obituary Notice which appeared in Tlie Times of March 20th, it
was stated that Mr Harry Price was " indirectly instrumental in the found-
ing of a studentship in psychical research at Trinity College, Cambridge,
and the Blennerhasset Trust for the same object at New College, Oxford ".
As is well known to those who were members of the Society in 1940, when
the Perrott Studentship and the Blennerhassett Trust were founded,
Mr Price was not directly or indirectly connected with either.
THE KENNETH RICHMOND MEMORIAL BOOKS
Members of the Society v,'ill remember that in recognition of Mr Kenneth
Richmond's many services to the Society it was decided shortly after his
death to open a fund to provide books which should be put on a special
shelf in the Library, bearing the inscription " The Kenneth Richmond
Memorial Books ". They will be glad to learn that donations amounting
2 |o JnuDinl of Society for Psychical Research MAY 1948
to 12 o have been received from the persons whose names are set
ovit l)clo\v, that twenty-four liooks ha\e in this way been added to the
Library, and that there is ^'83 2 9 in hand in fund for the provision of
further books.
Mrs Richmond wishes to express her warm appreciation to all who have
helped to perpetuate in this admirable way her husband's memory.
Contributors to the Fund
Mrs M. E. Fhnt.
Mr and Mrs L. A. G. Strong.
Miss Dunn-Yarker.
Lady Dewar.
Mr G. Redmayne.
Dr Doris Ball.
Mr D. Parsons.
^
Miss Traill.
Miss Morgan lirown.
Miss Winnie Morgan IJrown.
Mr and Mrs Salter.
Mrs Bulley.
Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
• Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell.
Mrs K. M. Goldney.
Mrs C. Sitwell.
Dr and Mrs L. J. Bendit.
Mr and Mrs Nigel Richmond.
Mrs C. Ross.
Mrs Kenneth Richmond.
Mr and Mrs M. Forbes.
Miss Muir Mackenzie.
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton.
Mrs Bell.
Mrs Varvill.
Mrs Riddoch.
Sir Thomas Bazley.
NEW COURSE ON PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
AT MORLEY COLLEGE
PsYCiiiCAi. research is for the first time included among the subjects of
courses arranged ;it Morley College (61 Westminster Bridge Road,
London, S.E.i) during the Summer 1948 Term. The College has been
fortunate in securing Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell, who will lecture every
Monday at 6.30 p.m. for five weeks from May loth.
A NEW PERIODICAL
In April was published the first number of a new periodical. Enquiry,
whose purpose, to quote from Professor C. D. Broad s foreword, is " to
supply to intelligent and critical readers, who may not themselves have
any first-hand knowledge of psychical research and paranormal psychology,
reliable information on what is being done and thought in this and other
related fields ". There has long been a need for a periodical which will
make available, in a non-technical manner but in a scientific spirit, the
results of the work of specialists in this department of research. It is to
be hoped that many readers oi Enquiry may be led to take a deeper interest
in psychical research and its implications and to carry their enquiries
further by making use of the facilities and resources of the Society.
The April issue of Enquiry has a distinguished list of contributors,
including G. N. M. Tyrrell, J. W. Dunne, Dr William Brown, Olaf
Stapledon, W. H. Salter, and Dr D. J. West ; and there are reviews by
Martha Kneale and the Dean of St Paul's. Its price is is. 3d. a copy.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i
For Private Circulation among Members and Associates only
June—July, 1948 •
Vol. XXXIV—No. 647
CONTENTS
PAGE
Editorial Note ........ .241
Correspondence :
The Reach of the Mind : Some Comments on Dr Soal's
Review . . . . . . .
.
" . . 242
Result of the Prize Offer to Physical Mediums . .
244
The Art of Psychical Research ..... 247
Conditions for Investigation of Mediums . . .
247
The Subject's Viewpoint ...... 248
A Significant Book Test ...... 248
The Psi Processes . . . . . , . .
249
Reviews ........... 250
Notices to Members ........ 257
Meetings of the Council ....... 259
Meetings of the Society . . . . . . .
259
New Members . . . . . . . '
. . 2^0
EDITORIAL NOTE
A word of explanation is due to members on the contents of this issue^
which is devoted almost entirely to correspondence and reviews.
First, an unusually large number of letters has been received (though
space cannot be found for all of them) ;
secondly, reports have been
prepared of several cases whose interest requires that no restriction be
placed on their circulation ;
thirdly, reviews of a number of books have
already been held over for several months ; and lastly, the shortage of
paper places a strict limitation on the length of the Journal. Correspon-
dence and book reviews are therefore brought up to date in this number,
and the next will be a '
public '
number in which no letters will be
printed. It is possible that a further public number may be issued
before the end of the year.
The Editor would like to take this opportunity of asking correspondents
to keep their letters as short as possible.
242 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research june-july 1948
CORRESPONDENCE
The Reach of the Mind
Some Comments on Dr Soal's Review
Sir,—I am amazed that the review of The Reach of the Mind in the
Journal for February 1948 could be written by one wh© has made such a
briUiant contribution to the experimental literature of E.S.P., and that
it should appear in the Journal of the Society whose honourable history
establishes the claim of the British to a position of pre-eminence in the
new science of the human mind.
I will not engage in a point-by-point discussion of this review. The
book can speak for itself and certainly not one of our members will wish
to miss it. Nor will I argue the reviewer's interpretation of the early
history of the Duke work, although I am familiar in some detail with that
history and I disagree with his interpretation. I would like to attempt
something more constructive than rebuttal. The reviewer asks several
questions, and these with profit might be answered.
At first glance it is curiously suggestive that there have been no high
scoring subjects reported in recent years. Upon further thought it is
entirely reasonable. The high score results obtained in the 1930's have
not been duplicated in the present decade for at least these reasons : the
search for outstanding subjects has not been a primary objective and
success in simple card-calling experiments has not been even a secondary
objective among the senior workers in the U.S.A. since before the war.
After the symposium on E.S.P. held by the American Psychological
Association in 1938 at which there was no effective criticism of the well-
done experiments, it became clear that mere card-calling could not
convince most psychologists of the reality of E.S.P. Card-calling experi-
ments demonstrate an anomaly in nature, and few psychologists will
accept an anomaly of such momentous implications. It was decided then
that future effort should be devoted to learning about psi and not to
proving its existence.
In his 1942 presidential address Professor R. H. Thouless expressed
this point of view with admirable lucidity. '
If we meet with sceptics . . .
let us . . . not succumb to the temptation of trying to satisfy them
ourselves. . . . The methods appropriate to a research intended to estab-
lish the reality of the phenomena are not generally appropriate to a research
intended to elucidate the character and conditions of the phenomena. . . .
Workers must be content with such moderate standards of significance
as are used in other branches of scientific research, since the time available
for any course of experiments is limited.'
The second question which I have taken from this review of The Reach
of the Mind is one which interests me as a physicist. Why can a falling
die be more easily influenced than a delicately balanced needle.? Granting
tentatively the reviewer's premise, one can speculate as to the answer.
In the light of our knowledge of physics it seems entirely proper that a
tumbling die should be more sensitive than a balanced needle. The die
JUNE-JULY 1948 Correspondence
243
may be presumed to pass through a number of metastable situations
wherein the energy required to choose between ahernative paths in the
causative chain is very tiny. Physical energy comes in packets of minute
but finite size. One quantum of electromagnetic energy, properly timed
and aimed, could thus conceivably govern the final position of a die ;
whereas even a million quanta would be utterly insignificant when applied
to a needle. The difference between these situations can be made clear
by analogy. The hand of one man on the throttle of a train can control it
easily. The same man pushing or pulling from behind would never be
noticed.
^
The reviewer's third question is of a different nature. He says is it
really credible '
that one-out-of-three of the inmates of a school for the
blind should score significantly above chance. This question is important,
not for its own sake, but for the thought which lies behind it. In modern
physics we no longer say '
Is it credible.? '
Since Einstein's special theory
of relativity we have come to realise that our intuition is of no value in
assessing reality. The only question which can rightly be asked is
'
Has
It been observed.?
'
The reviewer accepts telepathy but not PK. This acceptance of one
phenomenon and rejection of another on what appears to be no better
basis than personal preference is mystifying to me. I do not understand
the type of mmd which is bold enough to defy orthodox science by
accepting telepathy and yet is so timid as to deny psychokinesis when
the evidence for the latter is rather better than for the former.
I think the explanation for much of what has been written in this
review is to be found in the reviewer's own words :
'
It is of course
extremely difficult for an Englishman who has had no personal contact
with any of the experimenters or witnessed any of the experiments to
torm a sound estimate of the true value of the vast volume of research
that has been turned out by Duke University and other U.S.A. institutions
during the past fifteen years.'
I would like to endorse the suggestion made recently by Professor C. D
Broad that some way be found to bring about an exchange of personnel
between England and the United States. In this way experimenters will
come to appreciate the importance of the psychological milieu in psi
research. 1 would hope, too, that among the experimenters coming to
this country there would be a few young graduate students of psychology
1 heir training m psychology would permit them to understand the subtle
nature ot the human mind, and their youth might allow them to appreciate
the importance of the working conditions at Duke-for above alL in my
visits to Durham I have been impressed by the youthful atmosphere of
Dr Rhine s laboratory.
^
Yours etc.,
Robert A. McConnell
Department of Physics,
University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
244 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research june-july 1948
Result of the Prize Offer to Physical Mediums
Sir,—In the issue of the Journal for May I find a number of remarkable
letters and, if I may be permitted to do so, I should like to offer a few
observations. Dr Bendit starts off by saying that there are in fact very
few, if any, mediums in this country who can produce genuine physical
phenomena. How can he know this? How many has he investigated?
Indeed, has he seriously investigated any of them? He then goes on to
attack the conditions under which the prize offered was made and the
report of the result in the January Journal. He thinks that the mediums
who refused to be investigated may have shown more understanding of
psychic matters than the investigator. They may, he says, be using
common sense in refusing in some cases to be '
lured into a completely
false position '. But, Sir, since, according to Dr Bendit there are few if
any genuine physical mediums at all in this country, is it not just possible
that this may be the reason for the refusals, and not all the fancy reasons
that Dr Bendit has produced?
It is to be regretted that Dr Bendit does not agree with the Society's
intention to study hypnotism. It is, however, one of the phenomena
that the Society examined very early and I suggest he looks up page 3 of
Vol. I of our Proceedings.
Mrs Richmond's knowledge is even more surprising than that of Dr
Bendit. He knows that nearly all physical mediums are frauds. She
knows what is going on in Dr West's '
unconscious '. '
Nothing happens
'
when certain '
Research Officers '
are present. Really! Dr West and I
must have been badly hallucinated. I have seen nearly all the so-called
physical phenomena : Dr West has naturally seen less. But as it appears
that through our unconscious processes there are no '
results I can only
suppose that Mrs Richmond means genuine psychic phenomena. In
other words she agrees with Dr Bendit that the mediums are frauds and
that all the phenomena we have seen are spurious. Or is it about to be
suggested that Dr West's unconscious is so active that genuine mediums
are transformed into arrant frauds the moment he enters the seance room ;
or that my '
telepathic '
influence when not even in the room is able to
send them running to the theatrical houses to buy the false beards, a
specimen of which Brigadier Firebrace picked up the other day shortly
after I had admired the full forms that wheezed and squeaked in front of
me time and again?
It is not, I think, that members are getting '
fed up ' (to use Mrs Rich-
mond's phrase) with our admirable and open-minded Research Officer. It
is rather with those who seem to be out of touch with the Society's aims
and methods but who remain within it and, as it seems to me, hinder,
obstruct, and even sabotage its work, discredit its offiicials and make it
ridiculous in the eyes of other scientific men who are not acquainted with
the internal controversies which must always be present in work such as
ours.
In conclusion I must say that the letter of Drs Thouless and Wiesner
is as mysterious to me as it is to Mrs Goldney. They say that Mrs
Goldney's rules would close the mind of the psychical researcher whereas
a '
true mental discipline '
would keep it open. And then a few lines
JUNE-JULY 1948 Correspondence 245
lower down (p. 237) they say that common sense must be used. If I
understand her rightly that is just what Mrs Goldney has been saying.
If we four go to a show and see chosen cards rise at command from a
glass tumbler of course we cannot be certain in one sense that paranormal
forces are not at work. When I drive in a car with Marion of course I
cannot be certain that, as in the case of Mrs Silbert, it is not psychic
power propelling the vehicle but merely spirit from the pump. Are we
really to assume (as the letter suggests) that, whenever Drs Thouless and
Wiesner see an effect they cannot explain, their open minds will compel
them to suspend judgment and thus open the way to an '
investigation
'
of the '
phenomenon '
} I was recently assured that this was in ^ct the
proper attitude by a gentleman I met in the Society's Rooms. I wish
I could dwell in the kind of world in which some of our members seem to
pass their time. It must be like living in fairyland.
Yours etc.,
E. J. Dingwall
Sir,—I feel, with Dr West's reply to my last letter to you, that we are
getting somewhere in tracing out the reasons for the monotonous and
Molotovian negativeness in the reports of investigations of various
mediums and phenomena. Mrs Richmond's letter says a lot more than
I was myself prepared to say at the time. Her contention is, moreover,
borne out by Dr West's letter, which shows in one or two particular
instances a desire rather to score a rhetorical point—i.e. an emotional
one—than to be strictly impartial and scientific. Of this he is no doubt
unconscious, but in the interests of our research work, I must ask him to
answer them.
First :
in my letter I mentioned Dr William Brown's views on hypnosis
as those with which I myself agreed. Dr West makes it appear that I
therefore think Dr William Brown a suitable person for psychical research.
Will he please explain the connection? It may be my unconscious
resistance to seeing it, but it seems decidedly far-fetched.
Second: Dr West speaks of '
the numerous physical mediums who
give seances in London and in spiritualist circles ', and asks whether I
think them frauds because I said that very few mediums were able to
produce physical phenomena. Am I to take it that Dr West knows of,
or believes, that there are these '
many physical mediums '
producing
phenomena? If so, I shall value his assistance in showing them to me,
and I will gladly take my statement back if I am satisfied with what
I see. But if they do indeed exist, then I am entitled to ask him, as the
Society's Research Officer (a) whether he has actually seen such
phenomena? {b) if so, why he has not told of them and varied the tone of
his reports with them? or (c) if he thinks them worth investigating, why
he has not done so? I think the answer is that, in actual fact he agrees
with my view, but could not resist the temptation to turn my negative
statement into a positive accusation of fraud.
There are a number of other points on which I definitely join issue
with Dr West. He says, for example, that one would have to look a long
way before obtaining confirmation of my views on hypnosis. But it is
not going very far afield to look up Dr William Brown's Psychological
246 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research june-july 1948
Methods of Healing. And if Dr West were better acquainted with some
of the really experienced members of the psychiatric fraternity, he would
find that there are others besides myself who, directly or indirectly, share
my view. This is, that hypnosis is bad for the subject undergoing it,
even where this bad effect is designed to lead to a good result. Yes,
there is a vast literature on hypnosis. It would be worth Dr West's
trouble to study the subject carefully before embarking on his experi-
ments. He will find there that, in general terms, the best subjects for
hypnosis are actual or potential hysterics. And it is the merest common-
sense to suggest that the very people who are hypnotisable are the ones
who should most decidedly not be hypnotised.
Incidentally, the fact that others do hypnotic experiments does not
justify the method. The fact that they have bullfights in Spain does not
make them any more humane. The fact that many people drink alcohol
does not eliminate the fact that the misuse of alcohol results in poisoning.
And if one seeks to justify oneself by pointing out that others too do a
wrong thing, one must logically allow that the methods used in Malt-
hausen, Belsen and Dachau are scientifically ethical because they have
been used in the name of science.
Moreover, if Dr West knew the literature of psychiatry better, he would
not tell us of the wonders which hypnosis has taught us. The fact of
the matter is that though in early days we learned a certain amount, for
the last twenty years or more hypnosis has taught psychiatry virtually
nothing at all. It is surely time to drop a method of experiment which
has lost its value and is archaic, quite apart from any bad effects on its
victims.
Then on the matter of the laboratory. It is all very well for Dr West
airily to dismiss the subtle factors which in my opinion inhibit the
production of phenomena. But, with the experience of twenty years as
a psychotherapist, and more as a human being, I suggest that in any
human contact these subtle factors operate. All the more so do they
become important when dealing with psi and its manifestations. And it
is not the conscious which counts. The unconscious is perhaps more
important than external comfort, or the charm of the operator. Dr
Rhine realises this ;
hence, perhaps, his positive results where others have
failed. That is why I suggest that psychical researchers require a high
degree of self-awareness to succeed. That this may be attained by some
form of analysis is well known. There are, of course, failures in analysis :
we always have to cope with those who are either incapable or unwilling
to learn to see themselves as they are (a thing far more devastating even,
in its early stages, than seeing ourselves as others see us).
It amounts to this : the personal factor is of even greater importance
in psychical research than in most other fields. A worker may be
consciously anxious to obtain results, but his unconscious mind may put
insuperable obstacles in the way, either from direct resistance to the
subject under consideration or simply because it is disgruntled and
inharmonious in a more general way. It is essential that the detachment
of the scientific attitude should be something more than a superficial
manifestation, but should apply to those parts below the surface as much
as to those above. And I suggest that the constant failure to obtain
JUNE-JULY 1948 Correspondence 247
results should be blamed far more on the operator's mentality than on
his subject's capabilities.
Yours etc.,
L. J. Bendit, M.D., D.P.M.
The Art of Psychical Research
Sir,—Recent issues of the Journal, and the meeting addressed by Dr
Bendit, have drawn attention to a division of opinion on the subject of
laboratory tests. One school of thought dismisses these as '
silly '
; the
other inclines to question the genuineness of any phenomena, or of any
sensitive, that cannot be tested with positive results in a laboratory.
It seems to me that the antithesis is a mistake, and that both kinds of
work are necessary and complementary. There appears to be a confusion
between the phenomenon in its natural context and the phenomenon in
isolation—if it can be isolated. Is there not an art of Psychic Research,
as well as a science? A word in a poem gets its magical effect from its
context. You may isolate the word, you can study it with dictionaries
and subject it to every philological test, and you will learn valuable things
about it. The one thing you will not learn is why it produces a magical
effect in the poem from which you have taken it. The magical eloquence
of a dancer's hand in a ballet cannot be tested and accounted for by
cutting off the hand and anatomising it in the laboratory.
A number of scientists, among them Whitehead, Jeans, and Sullivan,
have been at pains to tell us that science is limited to describing the
structure of things, and that it cannot measure—for instance—the quality
of a work of art. In other words, there are phenomena that can be studied
only in their context. They are essential parts of a whole, and their
validity can never be tested in isolation from the whole of which they are
a part.
I suggest therefore that, leaving aside considerations of courtesy and
expediency, there is a factual basis for urging each side in the controversy
to respect the aims and practices of the other. We have room for the
artist as well as the scientist. In fact, we cannot get along without
both.
Yours etc.,
L. A. G. Strong
Conditions for Investigation of Mediums
Sir,—Despite the statement made by some of our members in the
March issue of the Journal of Parapsychology that so far in this country
only two persons have been found who can acquire knowledge of facts
other than by normal means, I assert that on the contrary dozens of
mediums are displaying their powers day in and day out throughout the
year. I have many times had clear proof of this.
At the Annual General Meeting I suggested that the Society should
continue the enquiry into platform mediumship which was interrupted
by the war. I wish to express my conviction of the importance of
248 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research JUNE-JULY 1948
conducting such investigations in an atmosphere suited to the tempera-
ment of the subject, and I hope the Council will study carefully Professor
Rhine's article on '
Conditions Favouring Success in Psi Tests ', and
especially the following paragraph :
'
When an especially gifted subject is involved or one whose claims
are to be investigated, it is obviously necessary to begin with conditions
that he believes will alow the capacity in question to be manifested.
If need be, we can as a beginning let the subject himself lay down the
conditions entirely. Then with successful demonstrations we can
introduce one precaution after another always in cooperation with the
subject until we arrive at adequate conditions. It is like the task of
the naturalist studying a wild animal : we must first do what is
necessary to keep in sight of the animal. As everyone who studies
parapsychology well knows, there has been a great deal too much
dogmatic laying-down of conditions in advance, on one assump-
tion or another, with resultant waste of time and retardation of
progress.'
In other words first study the medium in his own environment and
patiently acquire his confidence. Then and then only try to secure his
presence, at first under his own conditions, in your seance room.
Yours etc.,
B. Abdy Collins
The Subject's Viewpoint
Sir,—^The two reports on divining published in the May issue of the
Journal suffer from incompleteness in the absence of any comment by
the diviners concerned in the experiments.
In the case of all such reports, whether relating to divining, E.S.P.
or other matters, their value would be added to by publishing the views
of the functioning mediums, or by a note stating that they had failed to
respond to an invitation to furnish a comment.
The same remark applies to published correspondence expressing
conflicting opinions on recorded experiences (e.g. the letters of Drs Bendit
and West, and of Mr Proctor and Mrs Heywood, also in the May number).
In fact, we hear far too little at first-hand of the view-point of mediums
in concrete cases in which they are intimately concerned.
Yours etc.,
H. DE Laessoe
A Significant Book Test
Sir,—In the May issue of the Journal Mr Allen J. Sharp examines Mr
Drayton Thomas's paper on '
A Significant Book Test '. The merits or
demerits of Mr Thomas's paper will not be discussed in this letter. But
the standards of criticism adopted by Mr Sharp deserve examination.
The Byron book contained marginal notes. Mr Sharp writes, '
It
would be safe to say that in nine cases out of ten, such a book would also
JUNE-JULY 1948 Correspondence 249
have been used as a depository for letters and clippings.' Either (a) Mr
Sharp is offering as a fact what is no more than a personal impression, or
{b) having adopted the highest standards of psychical research, he means
that if a book contains marginal notes the probability that it also contains
letters and clippings is 0-90. In this case he possesses data to support his
contention. Where are the data ?
A little farther on he states, '
Since the most popular size of paper is
quarto...' Mr Sharp is tantalising. How^ does he know this? If he has
statistical information on the subject may we have it?
Again
—' Most books published about this period, and especially col-
lections of poems, have coloured flyleaves.' Which period? The date of
publication of Mr Thomas's Byron is not disclosed in the report. And will
Mr Sharp provide information on the relative frequency of coloured fly-
leaves?
On the statement by Feda (or Uncle Alfred) that ' Byrons are not usually
illustrated ', Mr Sharp observes that '
Most collections of poems at least
bear a frontispiece '. Do they?
Finally, he tried an experiment. He '
selected at random a rather anti-
quated manual of geology which (he) recollected as having marginal notes '.
This is evidently a contradiction in terms. Random selection implies a
process of randomisation, and Mr Sharp's failure to use such a process
indicates that his method was biased.
It is open to question whether, in applying a quantitative analysis to the
evidence, Mr Sharp chose the method of criticism best suited to the case.
However that may be, when criticism is made on a quantitative basis, it
must, if it is to be of any significance, conform to the rigorous standards
inherent in this particular method.
Yours etc.,
J. Fraser Nicol
The Psi Processes
Sir,—May I be permitted to offer some criticisms of the paper by Drs
Thouless and Wiesner in Vol. XLVIII of the Proceedings dated
December 1947?
The case that these psychologists make is avowedly based upon the
hypothesis of the separateness of mind and brain. I submit that the
known facts of physiology make such a hypothesis untenable :
The more highly developed the brain, the fuller the degree of conscious-
ness. A sufferer from G.P.I, loses his intelligence progressively. It is
possible to destroy a '
mind '
neurone by neurone. Memories can be
extirpated from the '
mind ', by extirpating a brain centre. The intelli-
gence is seated in the association fibres of the frontal cortex, as the famous
'
American Crowbar Case '
proves conclusively. (The '
shin '
is largely
identical with the frontal cortex, as it receives impulses relating to
perceptions and sends down muscular impulses.) All these facts, taken
together, indicate fairly conclusively that mind and brain are identical
(except, of course, in a purely metaphysical sense—that is, we can look
250 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research june-july 1948
on a mental process from the physiological or from the psychological
point of view). They are incomparable with any theory of separateness.
There is one argument that is very cogent indeed. Softening of the
occipital lobe may cause alexia, or word-blindness. The patient can see
written words, but he cannot understand them. If the mind were
separate from the brain, the patient would be able to understand the
words also, for, by hypothesis, the mind is able to perceive them.
I am not for a moment disputing that there is a deeper part of the
personality, that which is involved in the mystical experience which really
is independent of the brain ; but Drs Thouless and Wiesner are obviously
discussing the mind as we know it.
A word or two upon the entelechy : Neither the word itself, nor the
theory, originated with Driesch. Beginning with Aristotle, under the
name of ivreXexeia, it has passed through the hands of Albertus Magnus,
Aquinas, Leibnitz and Hegel, Plotinus and Proctus. There may quite
well be some truth in it, but not in the form in which Driesch understood
it. To Driesch, the entelechy meant the subliminal mind, performing
the processes of embryology by means of telepathy and materialisation.
Driesch, himself an embryologist, said this almost in these very words,
when he was president of the S.P.R., and he offered the theory as a
contribution to embryology. To-day, after twenty or more years of
embryological research, his views are totally discredited. No embryologist
believes them, or could possibly believe them. The publication of Joseph
Needham's book. Biochemistry and Morphogenesis, has killed them for
ever. The growth of the embryo is plainly shown as the work of hormones.
I hope the authors of the paper will not object to my strictures, which
are offered purely in the interests of truth.
Yours etc.,
Basil Smith
REVIEWS
Heyday of a Wizard : Daniel Home, the Medium. By Jean Burton.
Foreword by Harry Price. (London : Harrap. 1948. 244 pp.
Illus. los. 6d.)
'
To point a moral, go to extremes '
says the well-known maxim.
Students of the physical phenomena of psychical research should study
the extreme case of D. D. Home's mediumship, and in so doing will find
this biography of great assistance and a ready reference to the various
phases of Home's career.
The literature on Home is profuse, including two autobiographical
books written by himself, two biographies written after his death by his
second wife, papers and articles in the S.P.R. Proceedings and Journal,
and a mass of references to his mediumship in Memoirs and Reminiscences
of the time.
Jean Burton has drawn copiously from this literature, and tells her tale
so capably and entertainingly that not only should her book find a place
on the shelves of all students of psychical research, but it can be read by
the general reader as an absorbing tale depicting London and Continental
society and the Royal Courts of Europe in their relation to the cult of
JUNE-JULY 1948 Reviews
Spiritualism during the latter half of the nineteenth century. For D. D.
Home took two continents—America and Europe—by storm. He claimed
not only as his clientele but as his personal friends the elite and celebrities
of many lands, and gave literally scores of sittings a year. '
By the end
of the '6o's there was scarcely a man or woman of note who had not
viewed the marvels of his seances or could not consult a friend who had,
'
says Miss Burton of the London scene.
Yet he never suffered a serious, first-hand exposure, in spite of the two
features which make his mediumship unique : he invariably sat as one
of the circle of sitters in full view of all, and his sittings were not held in
darkness but in varying degrees of light.-'^
Very different in quantity and quality of mediumship was the scene
then, compared to our own lean years. And very different the standards of
investigation! The proven unreliability of the average, untrained witness
would allow us to dismiss the greater part of the copious testimony to the
enormous range of Home's mediumship, were it not for the examination
of Home by the eminent scientist Mr (later Sir) William Crookes, already
at the time a Fellow of the Royal Society. Crookes's 'Researches into
Spiritualism '
tells of his detailed investigations and complete belief in
Home's genuineness as a result—a belief shared by other savants such as
Lord Crawford (the Master of Lindsay), Cromwell Varley, F.R.S., and
others. '
Deception,' wrote Varley to Prof Tyndall after investigation
of Home carried out in his (Varley's) own home, '
was impossible.' An
eminent chemist, writing in the Birmingham Morning News at that time,
sums up the situation as follows :
'
Either a new and most extraordinary
natural force has been discovered, or some very eminent men, specially
trained in rigid physical investigation, have been the victims of a most
marvellous, unprecedented and inexplicable physical delusion. I say
unprecedented because, although we have records of many popular
delusions of similar kind and equal magnitude, and speculative delusions
among the learned, I can cite no instance of skilful experimental experts
being utterly, egregiously and repeatedly deceived by the mechanical
action of experimental test apparatus carefully constructed and used by
themselves.'
For all that, psychical researchers of to-day do not accept Home's
phenomena as '
proven '
; and the reasons for this abiding scepticism
would entail an exhaustive survey of surely one of the most absorbing
studies upon earth.
A very few unimportant misprints in the American edition (New York,
Knopf, 1944) have been corrected in the English version. A serious
error, however, has been overlooked (p. 225 of the English version),
where, after Home's marriage in October 1871 to the aristocratic Mile
Julie de Gloumeline (the Czar of Russia sending a sapphire and diamond
ring with his felicitations as a present), their daughter is described as
being born 6 months later in April 1872, instead of in the autumn of
that year. K. M. G.
^ Count Perovsky exhaustively examines the most serious of the second-hand
exposures in S.P.R. Journal XV, 274 ff, and Proceedings XXXIX, 247; and the
Hallucination Theory in Proceedings XXI, 436 ff.
252 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research june-july 1948
The Religion of the Modern Scientist (Neo-Materialism). By S. W.
Tromp. (Leiden : A. W. SijthofF's Uitgeversmaatschappij N. V.
1947. xxiv, 480 pp.)
The view most generally expressed in this country at the present time
concerning the relation between the phenomena of psychical research and
science is that the present scientific framework cannot include these
phenomena. Professor Tromp has made an interesting contribution to
the opposite viewpoint. The essence of his so-called neo-materialist view
is the conclusion that both organic life and the inorganic non-living
world are governed by the same general laws, and in support of this thesis
a general account of the behaviour of matter and of the development of
life to the atomic period is given. Attention is directed to the similarities
in the behaviour of living matter and inorganic crystals, Tromp holding
that all the fundamental processes in living matter can be paralleled by
crystallisation phenomena. A very considerable quantity of factual
matter is incorporated in developing these views, and the general reader
may find difficulty in following much of the discussion, which frequently
goes into some detail and introduces difficult concepts with very little
explanation.
Psychical researchers may be interested in Professor Tromp's tentative
explanations of the most important parapsychological phenomena.
Telepathy is ascribed to the propagation of electromagnetic waves from
one brain to another, the well-known electrical properties of the brain
being mentioned in support of this hypothesis, and the experiments of
Koopman and Franke on the encephalograms of persons in trance, which
showed an enormous increase of amplitude and a considerable change in
the Fourier analysis of the curves. True psychometry is considered to be
due to complex induced electromagnetic fields in the object used, although
telepathy may be the chief source of information in most psychometric
seances. Prophecy of the future from the neo-materialistic viewpoint of
total causality becomes comparable with psychometry of the past, but
the development of this reasoning leads to dubious ground in discussions
of the scientific value of palmistry and astrology. A lengthy section is
devoted to Tromp's original work on the movements of the divining rod,
which he considers to be due to complex electromagnetic phenomena, the
rod being able to detect magnetic field gradients as low as o-ooi
oersted/cm. His conclusions are, however, often at variance in detail
with those of other investigators of divining, and it is clear that much
further work is required in this field. The divining rod combined with
the human body is stated to be an instrument exceeding in sensitiveness
all physical instruments.
The suggestion is made that the physiological processes of a medium
in trance differ from those in normal persons, and enable an organic
substance to be secreted through the pores which together with the
electromagnetic fields surrounding the body may account for telekinetic
phenomena, but this is advanced only cautiously in view of the prevalence
of charlatanry in these matters. The phenomena of phantoms and
hauntings are considered to be largely imaginative, arising through a lack
of critical observational capacity on the part of the observers, which may
be stimulated by such normal effects as the formation of spontaneously
JUNE-JULY 1948 Reviews 253
inflammable phosphine from interaction of disintegrating bones and
traces of acid in the soil, the self-ignition of methane containing phosphine,
luciferous bacteria and natural electrical discharges. These various
suggestions are in line with the earlier views of Podmore, but Tromp also
considers that telepathy and permanent induced electromagnetic fields
must be postulated in the case of some local phantom phenomena.
In the descriptive portions a good deal of controversial work is described,
such as that of Pfeiifer on crystallisation, Gurwitsch on mitogenetic rays,
and (Mrs) Kolisko on lunar eiTects and dilution effects, without its being
made clear that such work has not been generally accepted by scientists,
and in some cases is definitely regarded as erroneous. In view of the
great quantity of factual information given, it seems a pity that the
dubious work described is not more clearly characterised as such.
A. J. B. Robertson
Oxford Essays on Psychology. By William Brown, D. M. (Oxon),
D.Sc. (Lond.), F.R.C.P. (London : Wm. Heinemann Medical
Books Ltd. 1948. viii, 148 pp. ids. 6d.)
These seven essays were given by Dr Brown as lectures to his students
at Oxford. Written as they are with a happy gift for summarising complex
material, and touching on many and varied subjects, these lectures should
be welcome, both to the reader who is beginning to be interested in
psychological thought, and to the specialist who will value judgments
and conclusions based on over thirty years of practical experience in the
world of psychology and psychiatry.
The subject matter is wide, ranging from '
General Psychological
Principles '
to '
Social Psychology ', and the more specialised field of
'
The Psychology of Medicine '.
The first lecture, '
General Psychological Principles can naturally deal
only briefly with so wide a subject, but holds much of interest, and shows
Dr Brown's always sympathetic insight.
The lecture which deals with social psychology, especially that on '
The
Gregarious Instinct and the Group Mind '
(with special reference to
Nazi Germany and the paranoid character of its leaders), has an added
interest as being an early application of the insight given by psycho-
analysis into political and racial events. The essay is written with a
moderation which reflects Dr Brown's attitude throughout, and gives
a convincing picture of a nation suffering from the regressions and
perversions familiar in individual psychological troubles.
One wishes that when writing on group psychology Dr Brown might
have speculated on the possibility (a possibility opened up by research
into telepathic phenomena) that where gregarious emotions are taking
place, there might be telepathy between members of the group. But Dr
Brown does not seem to be much tempted by the type of speculation
which has no scientific recommendation. No reference is made to the
phenomena investigated by psychic research in this collection of essays,
but in the essay on '
General Psychological Principles '
Dr Brown
writes :
'
But we do not know of mind apart from body. Whether it is only
254 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research june-july 1948
in this life that mind is indissolubly wedded to body is an open
question. The individual mind may survive bodily death (I myself
think this probable on moral grounds), but there is not enough scientific
evidence to prove it. We may theorise, but from the point of view of
strict science we cannot build upon such theorising. What we can
build upon is what v/e know, and we know life when we see it, and life,
as I have said, is fundamentally good. It implies an organism which
has established itself and is able to maintain itself in face of difficulties
in relation to its environment, and even to turn those difficulties to its
own use.'
This considered optimism is characteristic of Dr Brown's thought.
In the essay on '
Psychology and Medicine '
Dr Brown gives a summary
of the days of Mesmer, Braid, Bernheim and Charcot, and discusses
theories and methods in the treatment by suggestion and hypnosis. Dr
Brown was himself early in the more modern field of psychological
medicine and analysis, and relates some of his own experiences and
conclusions in the treatment of 5000 shell-shocked soldiers who passed
through his hands in the First World War.
As treatment, he came to the conclusion, in agreement now with the
general concensus of medical opinion, that hypnotism is only justified,
and at its most useful, in cases of loss of memory ; and that in by far
the greater number of such cases the suggestion of sleep and relaxation
should be substituted.
Students of psychical research who are working on experimental lines
will be interested to hear Dr Brown's experiences and conclusions with
regard to relaxation. It will probably be in the lecture on '
Recuperative
Relaxation '
that they will find matter with most relevance to their
pursuit. In this lecture Dr Brown touches on the subject of Yoga, and
gives a necessarily brief summary. He refers to a book which seems to
be the first scientific evaluation of Yoga [Yoga, a Scientific Evaluation,
by K. T. Behanan). This author spent two years in India in active
practice of Yoga, and later carried out some careful physiological research
when he returned to the U.S.A. on the effects of the oxygenation of the
blood due to deep breathing and posture.
If relaxation of the active mind and body is, as some may conclude, a
necessary condition for the functioning of the unconscious mind (i.e. in
the paranormal aspect of it now called E.S.P.) every technique for
achieving relaxation must be worth investigation. In the psychiatric
world, where the aim is mental healing, attention and research is directed
now to the physical means of promoting mental change. So, in the even
newer field of planned E.S.P. experiments, it seems that the attention of
research may be turning to the exploration of physical conditions.
If the reader may be disappointed that Dr Brown has no essay on
psychical research, he should get over his disappointment and allow
himself to be beguiled into ranging over these other but neighbouring
fields with such an interesting and experienced guide.
JUNE-JULY 1948 Reviews 255
Das Ich, der Traum, der Tod. By Professor Dr Max Dessoir. (Stutt-
gart : Ferd. Enke. 1947. 185 pp.)
This short book is the last work of our late Corresponding Member,
the distinguished philosopher Max Dessoir, whose death was recorded
in the Journal for September 1947. Writing when over eighty years old,
after an interest in psychical research extending for more than sixty
years, he regretfully expresses the view that little progress has been made
towards establishing proof of survival, and that such evidence as has
transpired is for the present inconclusive. As his own life draws towards
its end, he feels an obligation to place on record this result of his studies,
and the more so since he believes that—as in 19 17, when he published his
first book—the effect of the recent, as of the earlier, world war, is likely
to be an increase in superstitious beliefs and a widespread indifference to
objective judgment on these questions.
This is a readable little book ;
although to the present reviewer at least
it belies its title. The Ego, Dreams, and Death suggest a discussion of
essentially psychological or psycho-analytical concepts and topics, which
nowhere appear in the book (apart from one mention in reference to
multiple personality). The book is in fact a short and compact survey of
the whole field of psychical research, dealing in two sections with physical
and psychical evidence of survival and in a third with alternative
explanations of the phenomena.
Although the subject-matter is so condensed, a very fair and clear
presentation is given, with numerous examples from the literature of the
best-known writers on the subject, and from the Proceedings of the S.P.R.
and the A.S.P.R., of all the various types of phenomena which have been
attributed to departed spirits. The book is throughout informed both by
the writer's lively interest in the problem as well as by his natural good
sense. His condemnation of some of the excesses, in triviality or ludicrous-
ness, of so-called evidential phenomena is never bitter ; and he shows
the true scientific spirit in the '
irresistible attraction '
which, as he says,
this blank page in the book of science exercises on him. In the face of
the little that we can learn at present, however, to him '
doubt becomes
a duty '.
J. R.
The Journal of Parapsychology, Vol. XII, No. i, March 1948.
(Durham, North Carolina : Duke University Press.)
This number of the Journal of Parapsychology contains the first
contributions to an interesting series of opinions on a research programme
in parapsychology for the next ten years. Those whose contributions are
printed in this number are : Ehrenwald, Hart, Gardner Murphy, Pratt,
Price, Miss Reeves, Soal, Tyrrell and West. It will be seen that the
English S.P.R. is generously represented. There seems to be a consider-
able measure of agreement as to immediate objectives of research. A
number of the contributors emphasise the importance of discovering
means of increasing the rates of scoring of ordinary subjects : by drugs,
hypnosis or mental exercises. Several consider that a fruitful line of
research is the investigation of personality differences related to para-
psychological success. There seems to be some difference of opinion as
256 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research june-july 1948
to the value of the investigation of psychokinesis as a research project.
Psychometry, survival and precognition are also mentioned as subjects
for future investigation.
Elizabeth McMahan and Joan Lauer record results of experiments in
extra-sensory perception when the agent and cards were in an unknown
locality. There was no significant deviation from chance expectation in
total hits, but a marginally significant decline effect was found. It might
have been worth while to have done a series for comparison with the same
agent and experimenter when the location was not unknown. Further
combinations of conditions suggest themselves, such as a comparison of
known and unknown location under PC conditions, the effect of the
location of the cards (under PC conditions) being unknown to the agent
as well as to the experimenter, etc.
Professor Rhine contributes a valuable article on conditions favouring
success in psi tests. The rate of success amongst ordinary subjects has
been higher at Duke University than any that we have found here. It is
well that we should learn all we can of how they do it there. British
workers may have concentrated sometimes too much on rigidity of
conditions while losing sight of the necessity to establish conditions
leading to fruitful results. But it is to be noted that Whately Carington
in his drawing experiments also got better results from Duke University
participants than from those over here. So the difference may be not
only in methods but also in the subjects. It may be due to a tradition of
success having established itself at Duke ; if so, we may hope to establish
a similar tradition here. It may be a difference in climate, diet, or any
of a number of other possible variables. Clearly there is something to be
found out about this difference. R. H. T.
A Casebook for Survival. Collected and arranged by A. P. Baird.
(London : Psychic Press. 282 pp. los. 6d.)
In this sequel to his earlier book A Hundred Cases for Survival Mr
Baird has collected a second hundred well-known cases which he considers
provide evidence indicating survival after death. He describes the book
as an attempt to meet the requirements of the '
sceptical and critical
'
and '
though it may fail to satisfy their canons of evidence, nevertheless it
may rouse some curiosity on the enigma of survival '. The cases are
presented under eight headings—Dreams, Haunted Houses, Apparitions,
Death-Bed Visions, Automatic Writing, Trance Phenomena, Direct
Voice, and Materialisation—each prefaced by the compiler's commentaries
on the various hypotheses which have been put forward.
Talks with Elizabethans. By Percy Allen. (London : Rider. 216 pp.
Illus. 15s.)
Mr Allen's book contains a record of communications purporting to
come from William Shakespeare, Edward de Vere, seventeenth Earl of
Oxford, and Francis Bacon. The scripts were produced by automatic
writing in sittings with Mrs Hester Dowden in 1944 and 1945. Mr
Allen had been for many years previously a leading exponent of the view
that the greater part of Shakespeare's plays, and also the Sonnets, were
JUNE-JULY 1948 Reviews 257
the work of the Earl of Oxford. Mrs Dowden's scripts confirmed his
view. He does not beUeve that the information was derived from his
own subconscious mind nor from Mrs Dowden but that it came
directly from discarnate Elizabethan intelligences. He considers, how-
ever, that the communications were facilitated, on his own part by a
previous Elizabethan incarnation, and in the case of Mrs Dowden by her
connexion, through her father, with Shakespearean scholarship. Nowhere
in the scripts is verifiable information given which could not have been
available by normal means to either medium or sitter.
Rosemary for Remembrance. By Clifford Bax. (London : Frederick
Muller. 1948. 207 pp. Illus. 12s. 6d.)
Among these essays and reminiscences written with Mr Bax's usual
urbanity and elegance of style is an abbreviated account of sittings with
Mrs Pamela Nash. At two of these, objects associated with E. V. Lucas,
who had died about eight months previously, were given to the medium,
and Mr Bax is satisfied that she had no means of knowing anything about
their history. Much of the information given appears from Mr Bax's
comments to be strikingly applicable to Mr Lucas, but it is, of course,
impossible to form a considered judgment without access to the verbatim
record of the sittings.
Books re-issued
Grades of Significance. By G. N. M. Tyrrell. First published 1930.
Rider. 12s. 6d.
The following books, published under the auspices of the Society in
1938, have been re-issued by G. Bell & Sons at 3s. 6d. each. They may
be obtained from the Society (postage 3d. per volume) or from booksellers.
Evidence of Personal Survival from Cross-Correspondences. By
H. F. Saltmarsh.
Evidence of Purpose. By Z. Richmond.
Foreknowledge. By H. F. Saltmarsh.
Ghosts and Apparitions. By W. H. Salter.
English Editioti
Faber & Faber have just published an English edition of J. B. Rhine's
The Reach of The Mind (188 pp., ids. 6d.).
NOTICES TO MEMBERS
Consultation of Officers of the Society
In view of the gratifying increase in the Society's membership, it is
desirable to inform members how they can best consult the officers of
the Society.
General Policy
Correspondence on matters of general policy should be addressed to
one of the Joint Hon. Secretaries.
258 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research june-july 1948
Administration, Library, and Publications
Letters concerning the details of administration, including the borrow-
ing of Library books and ordering of publications, should be addressed
to the Secretary, Miss E. M. Horsell.
Research, Reports of Cases, etc.
Reports of sittings with mediums and of spontaneous cases that appear
to be evidential, and general correspondence concerning research, should
be addressed to the Research Officer.
The two members of the Society whose names and addresses are given
below have kindly consented to deal with any letters addressed to them
relating to incidents or experiences that seem to the writers to be of
subjective rather than of evidential value :
Miss K. Richmond,
80 Regent's Park Road, N.W.i.
, . Miss H. Harding,
57 Holland Park, W.I I.
These two members and any of the officers of the Society can also be
seen by appointment. They are glad to extend these facilities for
consultation to members and non-members alike.
Papers submitted for Publication in Proceedings
The Committee of Reference and Publication wish it to be known that
papers submitted for publication in Proceedings should be typewritten
and sent in duplicate. This is necessary to reduce as far as possible the
time taken by circulating the paper to all members of the Committee.
Back Numbers Wanted
The Society will be glad to buy copies of Proceedings, Vol. XLVU,
Part 167, '
Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy '
by S. G. Soal and
K. M. Goldney.
Any other back numbers of Proceedings or Journal which members no
longer require (especially issues of the Journal from 1942-5) will also be
gratefully received (no payment).
W. H. Salter
Denys Parsons
Joint Hon. Secretaries
JUNE-JULY 1948 Notices and Members 259
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 437th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.i, on Wednesday, 14 April 1948, at 5 p.m., the President,
Mr W. H. Salter, in the chair. The Minutes of the last Meeting of the
Council were read and signed as correct. Twenty-one new Members
were elected. Their names and addresses are given below.
The 438th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.i, on Saturday, 8 May 1948, at 2.30 p.m., the President,
Mr W. H. Salter, in the chair. The Minutes of the last Meeting of the
Council were read and signed as correct. Nine new Members were
elected. Their names and addresses are given below.
MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY
The 198th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Rooms on Friday, 30 April 1948, at 8.15 p.m., when a lecture entitled
'
Where and What is the Mind '
was given by Dr Robert Eisler.
The 199th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's
Rooms on Saturday, 5 June 1948, at 3 p.m., when a lecture on '
Hypnosis
and Psychical Research '
was given by Mr Eric Cuddon.
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 14 April 1948)
Barnes, P. R., 12 Hyde Park Place, London, W.2.
Bell, Miss M., M.A., 2 Waterfall Road, Westcliff, Johannesburg, South
Africa.
Bret, Dr P. Thomas, 3 Travissa do Jasmin, Lisbon, Portugal.
Elliott, S. R., 99 Chaldon Way, Coulsdon, Surrey.
Faunce, Colonel E. de L., Carrack Gladden, Binkham Hill, Yelverton,
S. Devon.
FiTTOCK, E., 240 Randwick Park Road, Plymstock, S. Devon.
Hamilton, Sir Frederic H., Russet House, Tadworth, Surrey.
Henry, A., 82 Mytton Street, Moss Side, Manchester 15.
Hill, R. H. K., M.A., Canister Farm, Great Dunham, King's Lynn,
Norfolk.
Hyam, a., 9 Parkland Avenue, Langley, Bucks.
Knowles, F. W., Y.M.C.A., 643 Fulham Road, London, S.W.6.
Lander, H. C, 402 Osage Street, Leavenworth, Kansas, U.S.A.
Lee, Mrs J. Owen, 91 Sheridan Square, Evanston, Illinois, U.S.A. '
Martineau, R. C, Evans's, Eton, Windsor, Berks.
PiPPARD, Dr J. S., 97 Oxford Gardens, London, W.io.
Pryor, Mrs B. H., 3 Westbourne Grove Terrace, London, W.2.
Ryan, Mrs Norman A., 932 Judson Avenue, Evanston, Illinois, U.S.A.
Theusner, Mrs G., 32 High Street, Redhill, Surrey.
Turner, J. Greenwood, 6 The Avenue, Datchet, Bucks.
26o Joimial of The Society for Psychical Research june-july 1948
Ullman, Dr Montague, 116 Rutledge Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11, U.S.A.
WiLKiNS, Dr F. J., II Powder Mill Lane, Waltham Abbey, Essex.
{Elected 8 May 1948)
BiLLAUD, G., 24 Rue de Londres, Paris IXe, France.
BuDGEN, Mrs E. S., 5 Chester Street, Edinburgh.
Gill, Robert, 3 Sydney House, Woodstock Road, London, W.4.
Herzberg, Miss L, 137 Finchley Road, London, N.W.3.
HiTCHiNGS, L, 57 Manor Road, Manselton, Swansea.
Nagy, Dr Louis, Manor Lodge, Chesham, Bucks.
ScRUTTON, Miss M., 55 Park Town, Oxford.
Swain, Miss F. M., High Woods, Chinnor Hill, Oxon.
Symonds, Miss M.A., 52 Court Lane, Erdington, Birmingham 23.
Price gd.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOPv PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i
Special Number. Circulation 7iot Restricted .
September, 1948 .
" '
Vol. XXXIV—No. 648
CONTENTS
PAGE
PrograiTime of Films . . . . . . . .261
Course of Lectures on Practical Psychical Research . . 262
Private Meeting . . . . . . . . 263
The Esarp Tragedy ........ 263
Investigation of a Case of Xenoglossy .... 267
The O. J. L. Posthumous Packet ..... 269
The Fox Sisters and the Development of Spiritualism . 271
Reviews .......... 286
The Perrott Studentship ....... 290
Mrs Alfred Lyttelton ....... 296
PROGRAMME OF FILMS
A programme of films on subjects related to psychical research has
been arranged for
Tuesday, 5 October, at 6 p.m.
in the Crown Theatre, 86 Wardour Street (basement), London, W. i. It
will be followed by a discussion. A charge of one shilling and sixpence
will be payable at the door.
Important. Members who wish to come are asked to notify the Secretary,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i, as soon as possible. As the seating
capacity is limited, it will unfortunately not be possible to admit non-
members.
Members in the Home Counties have been notified in advance by
postcard.
262 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research sept. 1948
COURSE OF LECTURES ON PRACTICAL PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH
to be held at 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i.
In order to encourage more members to take an active part in the work
of the Society, the following course of lectures has been arranged :
Saturday, 16 October, at 2.30 p.m.
How TO Investigate and Report on a Case
The President, W. H. Salter
Tuesday, 19 October, at 7.30 p.m.
How to Conduct Simple E.S.P. Experiments
(with demonstrations)
Denys Parsons, M.Sc, A.R.I. C.
Thursday, 21 October, at 7.30 p.m.
Hints on Visiting Mediums
Mrs K. M. Goldney, M.B.E.
Tuesday, 26 October, at 7.30 p.m.
Psychology in Psychical Research
Miss I. Jephson
Thursday, 28 October, at 7.30 p.m.
Some Practical Problems in Investigation
The Research Officer, D. J. West, M.B., Ch.B.
Tuesday, 2 November, at 7.30 p.m.
An Introduction to Statistics
S. G. Soal, D.Sc.
Thursday, 4 November, at 7.30 p.m.
Statistics Applied to Psychical Research
S. G. Soal, D.Sc.
Saturday, 6 November, at 2.30 p.m.
A '
Brains Trust '
on Practical Psychical Research
There will be opportunity for discussion after each lecture. The first
and last lectures have been arranged for Saturday afternoons in the hope
that provincial and country members will be able to attend. Non-members
will be admitted by tickets (one ticket to cover the whole course), which
may be obtained free on apphcation to the Secretary, 3 1 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i.
SEPT. 1948 The Esarp Tragedy 263
PRIVATE MEETING
A PRIVATE meeting of the Society will be held in the Library, 3 1 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C. i on
Wednesday, 3 November, at 6 p.m.
when a lecture on The Physiology and Psychology of Trance will be
given by Dr William Brown, M.D.
M.I 12 THE ESARP TRAGEDY
A Psychometric Experiment
This account of an experiment by Dr John Bjorkhem of Lund, Sweden, a
Doctor of Science and of Theology, is taken from an article by him in the
December 1947 issue of the Swedish journal Samtid och Framtid {Present
and Future), by courtesy of the author and publisher.^ It was brought to
our attention by a member of the Society, Mrs Eva Hellstrom of Stock-,
holm, and was translated by Professor C. D. Broad, who is acquainted with
Dr Bjorkhem's work. Although the article has been condensed, the sub-
ject's statement and all other relevant remarks are given in full.
.
The experiment was carried out at 8.30 p.m. on November 22nd, 1945.
Six different objects had been put into envelopes or parcels, which were
open either at one side or both ends so that one hand could be inserted
The subject, Mrs Helga Braconnier, a lady fifty years of age engaged in
social work at Malmo, selected one of the envelopes. She was then put
mto a hypnotic sleep and made the following statement, during which no
answers were given to any of the remarks made in question form :
'
This lady is very fond of wool, she is very chilly. She is a nice
person, but she cries very much. Does she cry because she is ill or
what IS the matter with her.? Has she some illness in her side? Had 'she
asthma.? It is hard for her to breathe, she has singing in her ears
When she was young she was so cheerful. She is unhappy about some-
thing. Very unfortunate. Thinks she has nothing to live for, she is
anxious, has she been ill before?
'
Was it suicide? There was a post mortem on her. I see white coats
about her. She had been ill in her stomach before. You look up books
about her. There is a nasty smell around her. Was there something
to do with her neck?
' Someone came to see her a couple of days before, and after that she
was unhappy.
'
She was alone at the moment when it happened, at first she was
indoors, then outside. She lay prone with her face downwards so that
one saw her back. I believe that she lay and floated ; it was near the
water's edge. She lay with her face downwards. She has floated against
something. She was not undressed. One ring on her finger. Were
1 Natur och Kulturs Bokforlag, S: t Eriksplan, Stockholm. •
'
.
264 Joiir7ml of The Society for Psychical Research sept. 1948
there reeds or something of the kind there? It was an odd time of year
to be drowned ; it was not bathing-time and she was not undressed
either. I see no leaves on the trees. Was it autumn or spring ;
most
Ukely autumn? I see slush there ; it was thawing. A blouse and a skirt.
The blouse was not properly put on. Blue blouse, some buttons are
done up, not all. She was rather untidy. She was swollen up above the
heart. A hard fight for her. Was it suicide, but did she regret it?
'
A man is involved in it, but he is not guilty of her death. She was at
loggerheads with her husband. He was taken up with someone else,
and she knew it. Was he not called Nils or Johan or Jons? Did he sell
corn? He had to do with corn. Many people came and went. They
talked about him. He was mean towards her. She seems to work a lot.
He often went away. Strong feelings are involved. They think of
moving from the place. Another lady means much to him. Everyone
knew that the marriage was not happy because of certain circumstances.
The other lady is in difficulties now.
'
She was a little older than he. She had so-to-speak taken him m
hand and helped him. Her parents didn't want her to have him. She
liked someone when she was young who went to America. Now she has
had to share her husband with another woman. Had she a sister who
was perhaps called Mary? I hear that name. She was married.
'
I see a photograph of her in an oval frame. She was fond of her
mother. Seldom happy in latter years. Able in her way, but she didn't
understand love. She had thick arms and a high forehead.
'
Many people at the burial. She was not popular, but they were
moved by the report of the death. A light rain afterwards ;
I see
yellow flowers. A bell rings somewhere. She lies to the left as one
enters the churchyard, beside a little grave. .
Did they have a child who
died young? The grave is ill-kept, I see leaves and weeds. Probably no
stone there. It was best for her to die. She was older than he.
'
There were three rooms in their house, it was in the country. The
house had been enlarged. Something has been found in the drawers.
Were there complications with a P.O. savings book? Had she a loom
there? She had home-woven aprons with tassels. Something which she
had begun had to be finished afterwards. On the sideboard stood a
shell-frame. There was an ornamental dog too.
'
The husband likes to lead rather a gay life. He takes grog now and
then. He is a little foxy ; I don't like him.
'
Was something on her torn? Had it got torn because she had hit
against an edge? Had she an abrasion on her leg or had she varicose
veins ?
'
They lived in the country. It was a mill. I see a mill. I see her go
down but she went on the other side of the mill. It happened in autumn
in the evening. She stood up on an edge. There was a jetty there. But
what was she doing with a little tub, then? I see a small tub. It lay
there, it is bound with iron. He can't bear to see it. The tub explained
certain things, but it has not been there all the time.
'
There was a hoop there near a pile. The tub has been mentioned
in the police report. Men in uniform came thither in a car. One of them
is fat and strong. Her husband does not mourn much for her, she had
SEPT. 1948 The Esarp Tragedy 265
sometimes neglected him. He thinks that it is painful. He is not guilty
of her death. He did not push her in, but the circumstances looked
black for him. Is the man ill, or where is he? In some way he still has
to do with her. In some way he is not free from her. Where is he.'
Away somewhere?
'
He has been under investigation in an office several times.'
The envelope which Mrs Braconnier had chosen contained a photograph
of Hanna Andersson taken after she had been found dead in February 1932,
and wearing the same clothes in which she was clad at the time of her death.
The following is an account of the tragedy :
During the morning of February 22nd, 1932, Hanna Andersson, aged 53,
wife of the miller Nils Andersson, who was somewhat younger than she,
was found dead in the mill-pool at Esarp, near Lund. In the pool was a
jetty, and she had obviously fallen from it, dead or alive, into the water.
On the jetty was the hd of a coffee-pot, and coffee lees which had been
thrown out. On dragging the pool the coffee-pot was also found. Mrs
Andersson was wont to wash out the coffee-pot from the jetty, and she must
therefore somehow or other have got into the water while doing this job
the night before, i.e. February 21st. .
On February 29th the miller Nils Andersson was arrested on suspicion
of murdering his wife. On February 24th Prof. E. Sjovall had conducted
the post mortem on the deceased at the pathological institute in Lund, in
the presence of policemen and several doctors of medicine and m.edical
students.
At the inquest it was established, among other things, that the deceased
was 170 cm. in height (she weighed 108 kg.). On the right lower leg was an
abrasion of the shin immediately below the knee. (Report of the Inquest,
§ 4-)
On her neck were found an abrasion of the skin and two red streaks
stretching up to the right and to the left. The left streak was more notice-
able than the right. She was clad in a jacket, a bodice, a woollen vest, an
under-vest, and a chemise (§17). It was testified that she was poorly clad.
Some of her garments were ragged (§3).
• Before the clothes were removed
the photograph used in the experiment was taken.
The heart weighed 500 gms., the left chamber was specially big (§35).
The liver weighed 3000 gms. (§37). The stomach contained i litre of
partly ill-digested food (§40). The large arteries showed extensive
arterio-sclerosis and a considerable deposit of lime (§47).
The conclusion of the report of the inquest says, iiiter alia, that the cause
of death could not be determined with complete certainty, and that Mrs.
Andersson was probably alive when she entered the water.
From the police investigation it appeared further that the Anderssons
had thought of selling their property, the mill and dwelling-house or a
part of it ; that there had been talk of a legal separation between them ;
and that Andersson kept up a connexion with an eighteen-year old girl
from the district who had formerly been in his service. The wife was well
aware of this connexion. He used often to make expeditions with his
mistress to Malmo and Copenhagen. He had last spent the night with her
on February 20th or 21st in Malmo. He lived a pretty gay life away from
266 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research sept. 1948
home. About two hundred restaurant bills, etc. were found at his house.
His relations with his wife had not been marked by any special discord, but
she had on occasion quarrelled with him when he came home drunk. He
had had his driving licence withdrawn on the ground of driving while
intoxicated. He had also been accused of forgery. He was well-known
and much talked of in the district. Some described him as '
sly '
and
'
deceitful '.
In his evidence. Nils Andersson stated that his wife always liked to wear
a great deal of clothing, that she had suffered from singing in the ears for
several years, that she was liable to giddiness, and that she always did as
little housework as possible.
Andersson was accused of wilful murder of his wife ; and although it
could not be proved with certainty that she died through criminal assault
and he energetically declared himself throughout to be innocent, the
evidence against him was held to be so serious that he was condemned to
penal servitude for life. The judgment was confirmed by the Lower Court
of Appeal and the Supreme Court, though in each of these certain members
were unwilling to declare him guilty. When he had been in prison long
enough for it to be possible for him to appeal for pardon he refused to do
so, since he did not think that he could ask pardon for '
something which
he had not done '. Eventually, an appeal for a new trial was granted by
the Supreme Court of Appeal, and on November 29th, 1947, he was de-
clared innocent and granted the right to receive compensation for his
fifteen years' imprisonment.
Dr Bjorkhem points out that the subject was incorrect in her statement
that it rained on the day of Mrs Andersson's burial, and that her grave had
no stone, and observes that many of the details which she gave cannot be
verified. He remarks, however, that it is possible that a more detailed
investigation would reveal further points of agreement, but that this could
scarcely be of decisive importance since the subject's statement seems in all
essential points to have had something in common with the Esarp tragedy.
When the experiment took place, Dr Bjorkhem had only a general idea
of the tragedy, and knew nothing of the details. At the end of the experi-
ment, when Mrs Braconnier was told what it related to, she could not re-
member where or when the tragedy took place. It was not till she was told
that it happened in 1932 and that Esarp was near Lund that she remem-
bered anything of the affair. She had no clear knowledge of it, however,
and she did not even know that it concerned three persons. Dr Bjorkhem
observe? that she experienced a mass of details of which she could not
possibly have been aware, even if she had tried in 1932 to find out as much
as possible about the case.
Dr Bjorkhem describes the experiment as neither better nor worse than
most of those which have been carried out with Mrs Braconnier.
In reply to an enquiry from the Research Officer, Mrs Hellstrom
quoted Dr Bjorkhem as stating that it was not impossible for Mrs Bracon-
nier to have peered into the envelope, but that he was observing her and
she could not have done so without his noticing it and he is quite positive
that she did not. Dr Bjorkhem tells us, however, that ' almost all the time
during the sitting I was alone with the medium '. It must, therefore, have
SEPT. 1948 Investigation of a Case of Xenoglossy 267
been difficult for him to keep her continuously under observation while
taking notes at the same time. The case would, of course, be evidentially
more satisfying had it been possible for the envelope to remain sealed until
the end of the sitting. Nevertheless, Dr Bjorkhem points out that the
medium experienced details of which she could not have been aware even if
she had tried thirteen years before to find out as much as possible about the
case, i.e. because she would not have had access to the post mortem report.
It might be an interesting exercise for the reader to compare the details
quoted from the post mortem report with those given by the medium.
The interest of Dr Bjorkhem's experiment will be increased if confirma-
tory material can be obtained from the same medium working in coopera-
tion with the Society.
INVESTIGATION OF A CASE OF XENOGLOSSY
By D. J. West
Prominently featured in Psychic Nezvs of January 31st, February 14th,
and March 27th, 1948, were accounts of remarkable phenomena obtained
through two mediums, Mr Joseph Thomason and Mr Albert Daniels,
who had been receiving alleged spirit communications for several years.
The phenomena which formed the subject of these accounts took place
at a private circle held in the home of Mrs Augusta Frankel in Muswell
Hill. The two mediums passed into trance states and were controlled by
'
guides '
who spoke through them in foreign tongues, e.g. African and
Chinese, of which neither Mr Thomason (a bricklayer) nor Mr Daniels
(a storeman) had any knowledge. In an article '
100 Years of Spiritualism ',
the magazine Illustrated, in the issue for April 3rd, 1948, reproduced five
photographs of this circle showing the mediums with faces contorted in
Chinese and African '
transfigurations '.
The particular interest of this case lay in the testimony of a Professor
Aladini of the School of Oriental and African studies, London University,
who stated that on several occasions when he was present at the circle he
received through Mr Thomason communications in the Mende language of
Central Africa, which was his native tongue. Aladini claimed to have
identified and conversed in his own language with several Mende spirits.
The Research Officer sent a note of enquiry to Professor Aladini, but no
reply was received. Authorities at the School of Oriental and African
Studies were approached, but they denied that Aladini was a professor at
that institution ; in fact his connection with them seemed rather nebulous.
A determined attempt to investigate the obscure '
languages '
spoken by
these mediums was made by the International Language Club in Croydon.
The mediums became entranced and spoke before a large audience
including '
Chinese with a knowledge of up to twenty dialects ;
Africans,
mainly from Nigeria in the West ; Indians and Pakistani drawn from the
whole surface of their subcontinent ; and individuals from fifty other
different countries '.^ The result was disappointing. ' All that could be
^ S. Brooke-Wavell, Secretary of the International Language Club, writing in
Psychic News, March 13th, 1948.
268 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research sept. 1948
said on the evidence was that two mediums had gone into a trance,
contorted their features to a negroid shape, and spoken in convincing tones
sounds which no one could understand.
This investigation was incomplete, because none of those present at the
International Language Club could speak Mende, the language which
Aladini said he could recognise. The Research Officer, therefore, arranged
a seance at which an expert in the Mende language was present. Also
present were Mr Abdy Collins and Mr Leslie Howard of Psychic News,
Mr J. F. Nicol, and a technician who recorded the trance speeches." Here
is the expert's report :^
'
On May 19th, 1948 I attended a seance in the capacity of phonetic
expert in African languages, bringing with me an African teacher of the
Mende tribe, as it had been alleged that messages in the Mende language
had come through on previous occasions. The room was fitted with
microphone and recording facilities, and the two mediums, Mr Daniels
and Mr Thomason, were recorded when in their trance. The following
is an analysis of what we heard.
'
Both mediums spoke very volubly, and Mr Thomason sang. Their
speech bore no resemblance, not even in phonetic structure, to any
known West African language, nor did the song bear any resemblance,
in its tone sequences or rhythm, to anything West African. In addition,
there was little correspondence in the speech of the two mediums, Mr
Daniels using pharyngeal consonants very frequently, and Mr Thomason
specialising in " ch " and " sh " sounds. Mr Daniels' intonation took
the general pattern—low, mid, low : Mr Thomason's intonation was
more declamatory, starting high, and tailing off, as in English.
'
Mr Daniels' face underwent contortions which could be described
as " negroid " in that the lips and the lower jaw protruded considerably.
Some of the sounds he produced (phon. q y Arabic :
{J> ^^)are common
to certain North East African languages, but he did not speak any such
language, as far as I could judge. When his normal self, however, he
seemed to be unable to imitate words containing these sounds. Mr
Thomason's face underwent no great transformation, and the sounds he
produced were such as any average Englishman could imitate.
'
I was specifically asked if they spoke Chinese, but could reply that
neither used Chinese nor Japanese speech sounds.
'
During the course of the seance, my Mende colleague addressed
some remarks in that language to Mr Thomason and received long and
voluble replies which were quite unintelligible.
'
The strong inference is that the words of both mediums were
meaningless, as the same sound sequences were repeated over and over
again—much as with a baby in the " babbling " stage of speech develop-
ment. Although both mediums changed their " controls " from time to
time (Mr Daniels at one time speaking in a falsetto voice), the absence
1 Ibid.
^ This record has been deposited at the Society's rooms.
^ On account of the official position which they hold, these experts do' not wish
their names to be quoted, but they are known to the Society and their bona fid''s is
without question.
SEPT. 1948 The O.J.L. Posthumous Packet 269
of any change in the phonetic content of their words would seem to
indicate that there had been no change in " language ".' '
Although it seems clear that the claim to polyglot mediumship is in this
case unfounded, the languages being apparently meaningless gibberish,
this does not necessarily imply bad faith on the mediums' part. They both
seemed sincere, and could easily have excused themselves from being
recorded had they so desired. Like so many mediums of this type, it is
probable they were themselves misled by the assumption that incompre-
hensible sounds which came to the lips involuntarily must constitute some
foreign language. Meaningless scrawls and scribbles are common enough
in early attempts at automatic writing, and doubtless in rudimentary forms
of automatic speech, gibberish is equally common. In this case the mediums
were probably further misled by the extraordinary claims of Mr Aladini,
for which no substantiation is discoverable. Neither medium made any
comment when told the opinion of the experts at the end of the sitting.
THE O.J.L. POSTHUMOUS PACKET
By G. N. M. Tyrrell
Nearly eight years have elapsed since Sir Oliver Lodge died, having left
a sealed packet to be dealt with after his death. This, he suggested,
should be referred to under the above title. It is felt that the committee
appointed by the S.P.R. to deal with this packet should now make an
interim report in the Society's ^Joz^rwcZ on what has been done. This falls
to my lot as chairman.
The relevant facts known about the sealed packet are as follows :
In 1930 Sir Oliver Lodge prepared a sealed packet and deposited it with
the S.P.R. This I will call A. In addition four other sealed envelopes
were prepared, which I shall call B, C, D, and E. B, C, and D, were
left in charge of the S.P.R. E was deposited with the London Spiritualist
Alliance.
B. This was prepared in 1907. On the outside of the envelope it was
stated that the contents included the name of the Imperator control as
communicated to Stainton Moses. The envelope is still unopened ; but
it is considered useless as a test because the name in question was given in
a book a good many years ago by Trethewy.
C. This was prepared in 193 1, and is stated to be supplementary to A.
On the outside of the envelope it is stated that another sealed envelope, C i,
is contained within, which is to be opened after envelopes A and E have
been opened.
D. This is another supplementary envelope, and it is stated that it is to
be opened last.
E. This envelope, deposited with the L.S.A., bears the instruction that
it may be freely opened '
when the time comes ', as there is another
envelope, E i, inside.
It is known that the sealed packet. A, contains six envelopes, A i, A ii, etc.
to A vi, one inside another. So far, A i, A ii and A iii have been opened by
270 Journal of The Society for Psychical Researcli sept. 1948
the committee ; but no hint is given in these of what the innermost
envelope contains. The plan, however, is known. Each after the third of
these six envelopes contains a hint which is intended to guide the mind of
Sir Oliver Lodge towards the contents of the innermost envelope, A vi.
Sir Oliver Lodge died in August 1940. In February 1947 a committee
consisting of Mr Brodie Lodge, Miss Norah Lodge (son and daughter of
Sir Oliver), Dr R. H. Thouless, The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, Miss
Mercy Phillimore, Dr D. J. West, and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell was appointed
to deal with the matter.
It may be said at once that, for reasons stated below, the matter has not
yet been finally concluded.
The following is a summary of what is known about the contents of the
innermost envelope, Avi. From a statement written by O. J. L. on
June loth, 1930, we learn :
'
It is an exceedingly trivial thing that nobody
knows anything about and that is what makes it suitable.'
On the back of the first envelope A i (inside an outer wrapper) we read :
'
The details are so numerous that they could not be guessed nor could they
be inferred.' Inside the second envelope, A ii, it is stated that :
'
It is not
an incident or an episode and not possible to be guessed.' A letter from
O. J. L. to Mr Piddington dated June 13th, 1930, contains the statement :
'
An absurd thing and unworth mention, except for this special purpose.'
Inside the third envelope, A iii, was found the following :
'
If you have had
an opportunity of consulting me about the posthumous packages, try to
remind me of something that trivially rather obsessed my life, that was
not of the slightest consequence, and that I never mentioned to anyone.
That is why it is chosen as a test. See if you can put me on the right lines
or in the right frame for remembering.' Then follows a post-script :
'
Don't proceed further until you have had an opportunity of doing this.'
We have, then, these items of information : (i) that the message is
extremely trivial, (2) that it contains numerous details, (3) that it cannot be
guessed or inferred, (4) that it rather obsessed Sir Oliver's mind during his
life, (5) that it is not an incident or an episode which occurred during his
life, (6) that it is unknown to anyone else. Any communication purporting
to give the contents of envelope A vi must therefore, if it gives them cor-
rectly, conform to these six items of information.
In the meanwhile a number of communications, said to refer to the sealed
packet, were received by the S.P.R. from various persons. Some of these
were marked :
'
Not to be opened until the sealed packet is opened.'
These are still unopened. The rest, not so marked, have been opened and
examined and separated into two groups, those which make a definite claim
to give the contents of the sealed packet, and those which do not. The
latter were found to be too vague to have any recognisable relevance to the
test. The former in no case state a content which agrees with all the six
items of knowledge mentioned above, except for one which describes a
complicated cipher, not easy to follow.
The difficulty presented by Sir Oliver Lodge's scheme is that it presup-
poses a condition which the committee has not so far been able to realise.
It will be seen from the above instructions which he left that he assumes
that the experimenter will be in free communication with him through
some medium or automatist. The experimenter is instructed (a) first to
SEPT. 1948 The Fox Sisters • •
271
get in touch with O. J. L., (b) then to give O. J. L. a stimulus-hint from the
next envelope in the series when he asks for it, {c) then to tell O. J. L.
what he (the experimenter) has gathered from what O.J.L. has told him,
{d) then to wait until O. J. L. says he is satisfied before he opens the next
envelope in the series. For example, one of the instructions left by O. J. L.
reads :
'
I want to be told hereafter what I have written in each envelope
as a reminder.' And again :
'
If anyone thinks they have got a complete
statement they should read it over to me slowly, so that I could correct it
where necessary.'
No such clear and unambiguous conditions of communication with
O. J. L. have been reached by the committee. Consequently, when at the
third envelope we read the instruction that we were not to proceed further
until we had had an opportunity of putting O. J. L. on the right lines for
remembering the message, we were in an impasse.
The only course now open to the committee is to wait until conditions
are realised in which question and answer between the sitter and the
O. J. L. communicator can freely and clearly take place : or else until a
message, which claims to give the contents of envelope A vi, and which
agrees with the six items of information given by Sir Oliver Lodge during
his lifetime, is received. No such message has so far been obtained in the
course of the sittings which the committee has organised or through
private sources.
The committee wishes to thank those who have assisted by taking part
in the research.
THE FOX SISTERS AND THE DEVELOPMENT '
OF SPIRITUALISM
By J. Eraser Nicol
Have you not learned, I asked, that our soul is immortal,
and never dies?
He looked at me, and said in amazement: No, really, I
have not ; but can you maintain this doctrine?
Yes, as I am an honest man, I replied ; and I think you
could also. It is quite easy to do it.
The Republic, Book X
Belief in immortality or in some form of survival of the mind or spirit
after the crisis of bodily death has characterized the writings and beliefs of
many religious leaders, philosophers, and ordinary people through all
history. Quotations like the above, though from less distinguished sources,
can readily be cited from all succeeding centuries. Strange occurrences of
apparently psychical nature have been reported in all ages, but it was not
until the middle of the nineteenth century that extensive claims were made
to the establishment of reciprocal communications between the living and
the dead.
The suddenness of Spititualism's appearance upon an unexpecting world
272 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research sept. 1948
is a circumstance that invariably surprises the new inquirer into the history
of that remarkable movement. Frank Podmore (i) held the view that
Spiritualism was the natural outgrowth of Animal Magnetism and its con-
comitant the induced trance, which grew and developed out of the work of
Franz Mesmer from 1773 onwards.
Podmore's view is no doubt sound so far as it goes ; but something more
should be said. To have professed powers of mediumship in any age after
the Reformatian would have been a confession of Witchcraft. In England
the last attempt of Parliament to suppress '
conjuration, witchcraft, and
dealings with evil and wicked spirits '
was represented by the Act of 1604
(I Jac. I., c. 12). All spirits were presumably assumed to be evil. That
statute remained in active use until well on in the eighteenth century when
the legislators of that enlightened age repealed it (1736), and thus, in the
words of an historian '
a stop was put to . . . ignorant cruelty, and the
statute book relieved of a portion of its load of trumpery '
(2).
In England the last judicial execution for witchcraft was carried out at
Huntingdon in 1716, when a woman and her daughter, aged nine years,
were hanged for selling their souls to Satan. In Scotland the last such exe-
cution took place in 1722. Notwithstanding the repeal of the Act, the prac-
tice of communion with the Unseen (as was supposed) remained a danger-
ous occupation, and in 1751 a reputed witch named Ruth Osborne and
her husband were ducked and murdered by a mob at Tring in Hertford-
shire. Judicial executions of witches continued on the Continent long
after they were abolished in England. In Poland two women were burned
as late as 1793 (3).
Mesmerism is important in the history of Spiritualism for two reasons.
First, there is the similarity of the magnetic sleep and the mediumistic
trance ; but this is so evident as to require no emphasis, and it need not
detain us. Second, in the year 1843, the mystic Andrew Jackson Davis
(1826-1910) of Poughkeepsie, New York, was successfully thrown into a
magnetic sleep. The experiment was repeated on many subsequent
occasions in the course of which the entranced seer expounded the long
and complex body of doctrine known as the Harmonial Philosophy.
Davis's teaching was written down for him by an amanuensis and published
in a long series of massive volumes. The '
philosophy '
professes to give
an account of the origin and nature of the universe, of the solar system in
particular and of man's place and purpose in it. More important, he gave
a description of the separation of the '
spirit '
from the body at the time of
death, of the arrival of the discarnate being in the Other World, and of life
thereafter through all eternity.
The fundamental writings of Davis were produced before 1848, and as
might be surmised he is regarded by Spiritualists to-day as the John the
Baptist of their Movement. Insofar as Spiritualism has been guided in its
oeliefs by any one teacher, that teacher is A. J. Davis. Before the Fox
Sisters were heard of he predicted the coming of the day when the '
truth
'
(of spiritual communion) 'will ere long present itself in the form of a living
demonstration '. He foretold that the new era in which '
spiritual com-
munion will be established '
would be hailed by the world '
with delight ',
a prediction which has not been literally fulfilled, as will be seen in the
sequel. Believers speak and write of Davis with words of reverence, a
SEPT. 1948 The Fox Sisters 273
feeling that is made all the stronger and certain to them by reason of a cele-
brated entry in his '
notes ', under the memorable date March 31st, 1848 :
About daylight this morning a warm breathing passed over my face and
I heard a voice, tender and strong, saying :
'
Brother, the good work has
begun—behold, a living demonstration is born '. I was left wondering
what could be meant by such a message.
Not at daylight (when the '
voice '
spoke to Davis) but some hours after
dusk the same day, Modern Spiritualism as we now know it, was born.
The birthplace, as is well known, was the hamlet of Hydesville, which lies
beyond the Catskill Mountains some 200 miles to the north-northwest of
Davis's Poughkeepsie.
The early history of the Fox family is lost in mystery. A new account^
of the lives of the three Fox sisters has been published in this the centenary
year of Spiritualism. The writer, is Mrs Mariam Pond whose first husband
was a grandson of David Fox, the only brother of the three mediums. Mrs
Pond says she is the only remaining member of the Fox family who retains
an interest in Spiritualism. For thirty years she has been collecting infor-
mation about the Foxes and has been given '
access to papers and letters
'
not hitherto published. Unfortunately, she hardly ever gives a clue to the
sources of her information, and so far as it can be traced it does not appear
that the new material adds substantially to our knowledge. On the other
hand, Mrs Pond writes with a measure of impartiality that is wholly admir-
able, coming as it does from one who is so intimately connected with the
Fox family. '
The story,' she says, '
is told without reservation. There is
no one left to be hurt.' The book lacks an index, and occasional references
to it in this article will be indicated by (P) followed by the page number.
The Fox parents, John David Fox and Margaret Smith, were both born
in 1787, were married in 1812 and in the first eight years of their married
life had five children, of whom only Leah is of interest to us. Fox was a
blacksmith and intermittently a drunkard. The psychological effect of his
weakness upon the lives of his children is hard to estimate—except that at
least two of them followed in his steps many years later. For about ten
years Fox seems to have been separated from his family. When the last
two children Margaretta (usually known as Maggie) and Catherine (Kate)
were born, most of the other members of the family were already grown
up. Leah was about 23 and had been married at the age of 14. There is
some uncertainty as to the age of the two youngest children. According
to the earliest writer (4) Kate, the younger by two years, was 12 when the
disturbances broke out. According to other authorities (5, 6, 7, 8) her
age was variously 6|, 9 and 11. Mrs Pond does not help matters by giving
Kate's age on page 21 as 12, and on page 420 as 1 1 ; she also provides two
ages for Margaret.
Whilst the father of the famous girls remains a shadowy, silent figure,
the mother stands out bold, purposeful, and alive. It is disclosed that
'
the capacity for adventure lay within her '
(P. 19). Though by nature
^ The Unwilling Martyrs : The Story of the Fox Family. By Mariam
Buckner Pond. (London: Spiritualist Press. 1947. 424 pp. 15s.)
1
274 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research sept. 1948
reticent and cautious, once she had conceived a course of action in her mind
she never looked over her shoulder. For years she was the impressario
of her two younger daughters, travelling with them everywhere through
the eastern States.
In large measure Mrs Fox's character was inherited by her eldest daugh-
ter Leah. This volatile young woman possessed powers of leadership and
a relentless will that were wholly absent in her younger sisters. If the
younger children were the originators of Spiritualism, Leah it was who
wrought it into a Movement that swept across the United States and round
the world. Had the affair been left in the hands of the younger children
and their mother it is doubtful if it would have become (at that time) any
more than a local nine days' wonder. But in some singular way Leah
possessed the vision to see the possibilities of the rappings. To this sense
of the long view she added gifts as an organiser which were completely
lacking in her sisters, even had they been old enough to exercise them.
Opposition to her proposals and wishes she at all times crushed with a
relentless vigour. The explorer Elisha Kane, himself a man of fiery will,
who became the husband of Margaret, described Leah as '
The Tigress '.
The usefulness of Margaret and Kate rested entirely in their supposed
gifts of mediumship—in the demonstration of which they far surpassed
their elder sister—and a certain physical grace and loveliness, to which
their elder sister could lay no claim. At a seance in Washington, in the
heyday of their mediumistic glory, '
One very fine-looking man stood up
before the crowd and addressed them thus :
" . . . . This is all humbug,
but it is worth a dollar to sit in the sunlight of Miss Kate's eyes. " '
(P. 182).
Kate had large grey eyes, and '
soft brown hair '. So much for her exter-
nal attractiveness ; on the other hand. Lord Rayleigh, who had her as a
visitor to his house at a much later date, said that she seldom or never
made an intelligent remark (15).
The rappings which are said to have distressed the Fox household for
months, came to a head on March 31st, 1848. The time seems to have
been late evening and the family had retired to bed. It should be noted
that Leah, at this period a music teacher, was living many miles away at
Rochester and heard nothing of the commotions for more than a month.
Whatever the cause of the knocks, the important matter is that on this
night the child Kate spoke back to the alleged operator and got an intelli-
gent reply. '
Do as I do, Mr Splitfoot! ' she cried and clapped her hands.
The sounds were echoed in raps (P. 23). Then Mrs Fox asked, ' Are you a
spirit.' If you are, rap twice.' Two knocks, and the World of Spirit, and
the gates of Andrew Jackson Davis's Summerland lay open. So the knock-
ings and the messages went on during that memorable night, right on into
the following morning which, as the child Kate remarked, was the first of
April. Knock by knock there emerged the story of the murdered pedlar
and his complaint that his bones were buried under the house. Neigh-
bours were summoned and the village was agog.
The Foxes forsook their wooden house, but the restless spirit pursued
them. It demanded digging operations in the cellar, a request to which
the dismayed family demurred. Then in the month of May Leah unex-
pectedly arrived, and grasping the situation and most of its implications,
took charge of the affair with a strong hand. When all others were
SEPT. 1948 The Fox Sisters 275
opposed to the ghost's demands, Leah was his ardent friend. As Mrs Pond
observes—with characteristic moderation
—' Leah was alone in her ex-
pression of interest.' Lack of sleep had exhausted all the other members
of the family, but Leah was inexhaustible. The cellar was dug up, and the
diggers unearthed '
a few wisps of reddish hair and two human teeth in a
portion of jawbone,' (P. 41). It may be noted here that in 1904 a larger
quantity of bones was unearthed at the house. This cache comprised
vertebrae, rib, arm and leg bones, a shoulder blade, and collar bone. Pre-
sumably neither the missing part of the jaw nor any of the skull were found.
Quite soon the knocks began to be heard in the presence of Leah when
her sisters were not in the house. And wherever the family lived, there
the manifestations were always experienced. For a time the occurrences
assumed a poltergeist form (4). Books and wood blocks were thrown,
cold touches were felt, beds and furniture were pulled about. The raps
continued. The method of communication by calling the alphabet was
invented by the brother David. One evening (P. 47), after a day of excep-
tional disturbances, the spirit knocked out a message which in its sequel
is clearly of great signficance to the Spiritualist movement.
Dear Friends, you must proclaim these truths to the world. This is the
dawning of a new era, and you must not try to conceal it any longer.
When you do your duty, God will protect you and good spirits will
watch over you.
This statement was received in the presence of Leah and Margaret
—
Kate was absent. Thus it came about that the first Spiritualist meeting
ever held took place in the Corinthian Hall, Rochester, on November 14th,
1848. Four hundred people crowded into the hall to hear the sounds
produced in the presence of Leah and Margaret. An address was given by
one E. W. Capron, the first historian of Spiritualism (4), and a committee
of investigation was appointed. This group reported non-committally.
Another committee reported in the mediums' favour, and when this was
announced at a public demonstration the meeting broke up in disorder,
the mediums being saved by the intervention of the Chief of Police (P. 65).
Leah was now kept extremely busy. She organised more public meet-
ings, and (not less important) arranged seances in private houses. Believ-
ers were soon being counted in hundreds and many who came to condemn
remained to cheer. The case of Duncan McNaughton is perhaps not
untypical of many experiences that have happened in seance rooms in the
succeeding hundred years. McNaughton, being a Scotsman, had to be
either a Theologian or a Sceptic. Mrs Pond describes him as '
a man of
high mental attainments who was an avowed atheist.' To him the raps
spelled out :
'
My dear son, hae ye forgotten your puir auld mother? O,
my son, repeat the Lord's Prayer.' McNaughton '
pushed back his chair
angrily, with a muffled oath.' Nevertheless he responded to the sitters'
persuasions and repeated the prayer. Presently he became still more im-
pressed and exclaimed '
Extraordinary! Extraordinary! '
and before the
sitting was over he was '
converted to the truth.' To the reader this may
sound a little ludicrous, but in fact conversions to new religious sects
appear to be nearly always rapid.
276 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research SEPT. 1 948
It was at this sitting that the first payment was made for the services of
a medium. On leaving the room, one Wilham Haskall pressed some coins
into Leah's hand. Leah drew back '
flushed and hurt '
but after some
hasty assurances from the sitters she '
hesitatingly . . . accepted it' (P. 68).
Spiritualism had been launched, and already it had '
become a religion
to its followers '. Even so, it could not yet move on of its own volition ;
all Leah's zeal and her unflagging energies were needed, and when the
two young sisters might have turned back to their village Leah was always
there to keep their feet moving in the right direction. She made '
rapid
plans '
for extending the good work, her earlier dislike of professionalism
was overcome and hereafter the charge for attendance at seances was one
dollar per person.
From Rochester they travelled to Troy, then to Albany, and at length
arrived in New York on June 4th, 1850. The news of the wonders had
long preceded the mediums and their mother, they were mobbed by excited
crowds, the newspapers carried regular nevvs of their demonstrations, and
most welcome of all they secured the support and personal friendship of
Horace Greeley, the editor of the New York Tribune. Sittings were held
six hours a day and as a rule all three mediums sat together. Greeley
estimated that '
fully three-fourths of those who had proper opportunities
for a full investigation '
were convinced that the percussions were not
produced by the sisters or their mother.
The success of the movement and their own prosperity seemed unending.
Nevertheless, in the course of a few years, two significant changes came
over the scene. First, the theory that the phenomena were caused by
normal means
—
i.e. that the ladies were no more than fraudulent conjurors
—instead of dying down with the successful passing of the Rochester
'
test ', tended if anything to increase. An early allegation was that the
knocks were due to '
ventriloquism '. A doctor gravely applied a stetho-
scope to the ladies' chests and found no sign of abnormal breathing or the
production of sounds. Another and more serious assertion was that the
noises were produced by joint-cracking. More will be heard of this pre-
sently.
The second change was simply that in a year or two the Foxes were no
longer alone in their glory. Rapping mediums sprang up and began to
practice all over the occupied regions of the United States. In a few years
it could be said that in New York alone there were one thousand mediums.
It is not too much to say that had the Fox girls retired from the scene in
1853 (in which year the movement reached and rapidly overflowed Europe)
their disappearance would have made no difference to the spread of the new
religion. Indeed, as early as 1850 a more notable demonstrator was
already beginning to see visions and hear sounds—D. D. Home, then
aged 17 and living with an aunt in Connecticut.
Still, for a time the girls had a monopoly of phenomena for which the
demand was unlimited, and they were '
the Lions of New York '. New
and more surprising things happened to astonish the inquirers. Auto-
matic writing, spirit lights, spirit hands, levitations were all reported. On
one occasions a table was completely levitated with Governor Talmadge
sitting on top of it. Podmore's judgements on things psychical must be
read with caution and circumspection—for the opinions of one who was at
SEPT. 1948 The Fox Sisters 277
first a lively Spiritualist and later a withering sceptic cannot readily be
taken at their face-value. Nevertheless, his well-known remark about
'
naughty little girls '
who amused themselves by mystifying their elders
is not without circumstantial evidence in its support. In the literature
there are many instances of their capacity for practical joking. On one
occasion when a return visit was paid to the wooden-frame house at Hydes-
ville, the younger girls were mediums for the evening (P. 97). Outside
in the moonlight Leah threw gravel against the wall. No notice was taken.
Becoming bolder Leah threw a stone, and when it passed noisily through
a window, old Mrs Fox, within, knew well that this was no spiritual visita-
tion. But she was contradicted by one Aaron Codding
—' Mrs Fox, I
think you are mistaken. For several minutes before the stone was thrown
there were little electric explosions near the window. ... A spirit made
this demonstration.'
The Aaron Coddings were probably not typical of the Spiritualist
movement, which, then as now, drew its adherents from every class of the
community. The diplomat Robert Dale Owen, the physicist Cromwell
Varley, Sir William Crookes, and innumerable medical men and lawyers
were all convinced by what they witnessed in the presence of one or other
of the Fox sisters. Varley, F.R.S., described the knocks heard by him in
the presence of Kate as '
a chorus of raps such as fifty hammers all striking
rapidly could hardly produce '
(20).
On the other side there were doubters who, with increasing voice,
expressed their suspicion that the knocks were produced by the ladies
cracking their joints—especially the toe and knee joints. An investigation
by three medical professors of Bufl^alo showed that no sounds could be
produced when the mediums' knee-joints were firmly immobilised. A
group of Harvard professors also carried out some experiments, but their
promised report was never published (19).
At a much later time Margaret (Mrs Kane) was investigated by the Sey-
bert Commission (9, 10, 5). The acting chairman of the Commission,
H. H. Furness, described the raps as a '
vibratory sound—tr-rut—tr-rut
—
tr-rut.' Margaret replied :
'
Sometimes they vary. . . . Every rap has a
different sound.' She was asked to stand on four inverted tumblers, two
under each foot. After a long wait some sounds were heard, and
—
Mr Furness, with the 'medium's '
permission, places his hand on
one of her feet.
The '
Medium ' —' There are the raps now, strong—yes, I hear
them.'
Mr Furness (to the '
Medium ')
—' This is the most wonderful thing
of all, Mrs Kane ; I distinctly feel them in your foot. There is not a
particle of motion in your foot, but there is an unusual pulsation.'
Frederic Myers reviewed this Report, but all that he had to say about
Mrs Kane was
—' Raps heard close to the medium ; could easily have
been produced.' The Commission investigated some other mediums, and
of their report in general Myers said that it should have a powerful effect
on Spiritualists ; there were '
several revelations of vulgar, unblushing
fraud, such as must make the ears of honest believers to tingle.' He urged
278 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research sept. 1948
Spiritualists to purge their '
faith '
of '
all complicity with this base and
crawling imposture.'
The combined mediumship of the Foxes was broken up by their mar-
riages, and from that time Leah could not exert her controlling will to
guide the more wayward—and ultimately tragic—impulses of her younger
sisters. Margaret met Dr Elisha Kane, the explorer, in her Philadelphia
seance room. He immediately fell in love with her ; from time to time he
expressed the most scornful scepticism of the mediumship, extracted a
promise that she would '
never rap again ', and married her. But in a few
years he was dead. Margaret thereupon disavowed Spiritualism '
for
ever '
(as she then supposed) and was received into the Catholic Church,
of which she was a faithful adherent for several years.
Leah's second marriage—to Calvin Brown—ended with his death two
years later. She then married a Spiritualist, Daniel Underbill, the
President of the New York Fire Insurance Co. Purely as a medium, Leah
is of no great moment. At times she found herself in embarrassing, indeed
alarming, situations. Thus, once at a dark seance in Jersey City, '
lights
'
of dazzling brilliance floated about the room. Suddenly, complaining
that her hands were burning, the medium fumbled her way across the
room to a basin of water, but getting no relief hastened from the room to
the garden where she plunged her hands into the wet earth. The seance
broke up. The sequel was both curious and unexpected. On the following
evening, Mr Simeon Post, having his attention called to '
lights' glowing
on the earth, found they were emitted by particles of solid phosphorous.
On being informed of this discovery the investigating group took at first a
sceptical view of Leah's performances. Happily for the feelings of all
concerned they were soon reassured, for Leah at a sitting held under more
rigorous conditions (as the sitters supposed them to be) was able to show
that the phosphorous was produced by the Spirit beings themselves
—
'
from the atmosphere '
and other sources. To Leah the sitters ofl^ered
their abject apologies for ever having doubted her, and (as Mrs Pond
remarks, with a fine sense of the fitness of things), ' Leah held her head high
—her eyes bright with the assurance of accomplishment.'
But of the three sisters it was Kate who was the most notable exponent
of mediumship. Whereas the other sisters retired into the background for
periods of years, Kate was almost continually in action. She was also the
only one who was repeatedly investigated by competent psychical re-
searchers. On at least one occasion she held a sitting in conjunction with
D. D. Home ; and lastly, there was manifested in her presence almost
every effect known in mediumistic circles. Automatic writing, mirror-
writing with both hands, direct-writing and drawing (portraits), lights,
levitations, materializations of hands, heads and complete bodies—all
these happened at one time or another in Kate's presence.
Of her American sittings, the most surprising, as well as the most secret,
were those with Charles Livermore, a New York banker, who became a
client of Kate soon after the death of his wife. At the forty-third sitting
a figure appeared out of the darkness veiled in gauze. In tense emotion
Livermore claimed to recognize the entity as his wife. She came again
and again at many sittings and one night had the company of '
Benjamin
Franklin '. Livermore and his friend Dr Gray were allowed to cut ofi^ a
SEPT. 1948 The Fox Sisters 279
piece of Franklin's brown coat, but the clipping '
disintegrated and dis-
appeared in their hands '. Livermore had nearly 400 seances with this
one medium (11 ; 7 ; P. 263).
By this time Kate had begun to trace the footsteps of her father, into
alcoholism—as also had Margaret—and in the hope of restoring her health
Livermore sent her on a vist to London with an agreeable companion,
Miss Ogden, as watchdog. For many years her old weakness did not affect
her, a transformation that was probably largely due to the happiness of her
marriage with H. D. Jencken, a barrister who was also a leading Spiritual-
ist. Knocks, bangs, and raps seem to have proclaimed Kate's presence at
almost every notable occasion in her career. At her wedding ceremony in
Marylebone Parish Church (December i6th, 1872) raps were heard near
the altar and in the vestry. At the wedding breakfast held at nearby York
Place, now part of Baker Street, old Mrs Fox, dead seven years, sent by
raps a message of congratulation, and the heavily laden festive board was
'
suspended in mid-air for some seconds '. All this is repeated in the Press
of the day in the most matter-of-fact form, so accustomed had the world
become to '
spiritual manifestations '.
Some of the accounts read very oddly. When Kate had given birth to
her first child the doctor (no Spiritualist) stumbled out of the room and
gulping down two glasses of brandy swore to Jencken that he had heard the
raps, that there were hands besides his own working about the bed, and
that he had seen a figure leaning over the mother. But how much of this
has any basis in fact it is quite impossible to say. So far as one's reading
goes in the vast literature of the Fox sisters, the doctor's name is unknown,
he seems never to have written any statement on the subject, and the whole
story seems to rest on Jencken's unsupported testimony.
Kate's child Ferdinand was the youngest medium of whom we have any
record. At the age of nine days a pencil was put into his hand and (accord-
ing to his father and mother) he wrote a message from the other world.
Before he was half a year old he was writing in Greek. One of these mes-
sages was reproduced in facsimile (21).
The importance of Kate's life in London—so far as psychical research
is concerned—rests in the investigations made into her work by three com-
petent observers. Mrs Henry Sidgwick's opinion was negative ; Sir
William Crookes was positive ; Lord Rayleigh spoke rather non-com-
mittally but he was evidently disappointed.
Crooke's experiments were conducted some time between 1871 and 1873.
Of '
percussive and allied sounds '
he wrote (12) :
These sounds . . . are more varied with Mr Home, but for power and
certainty I have met no one who at all approached Miss Kate Fox.
For several months I enjoyed almost unlimited opportunity of testing
the various phenomena occurring in the presence of this lady ... it
seems only necessary for her to place her hand on any substance for loud
thuds to be heard in it, like a triple pulsation, sometimes loud enough
to be heard several rooms off. In this manner I have heard them in a
living tree—on a sheet of glass—on a stretched iron wire—on a stretched
membrane—a tambourine—on the roof of a cab-—and on the floor of a
theatre. Moreover, actual contact is not always necessary ; I have had
28o Journal of The Society for Psychical Research sept. 1948
these sounds proceeding from the floor, walls, etc., when the medium's
hands and feet were held—when she was standing on a chair—when she
was suspended on a swing from the ceiling—when she was enclosed in a
: wire cage—and when she had fallen fainting on a sofa. . . . With a full
knowledge of the various theories which have been started, chiefly in
America, to explain these sounds, I have tested them in every way that
I could devise, until there has been no escape from the conviction that
they were true objective occurrences not produced by trickery or mech-
anical means.
Crookes describes direct writing procured at a dark seance :
I was sitting next to the medium. Miss Fox, the only other persons
present being my wife and a lady relative, and I was holding the medium's
two hands in one of mine, whilst her feet were resting on my feet. Paper
was on the table before us, and my disengaged hand was holding a pencil.
A luminous hand came down from the upper part of the room, and after
hovering near me for a few seconds, took the pencil from my hand,
rapidly wrote on a sheet of paper, threw the pencil down, and then rose
up over our heads, gradually fading into darkness.
Of Kate Fox's automatic writing Crookes wrote :
'
I have been with Miss Fox when she has been writing a message
automatically to one person present, whilst a message to another person
on another subject was being given alphabetically by means of '
raps ',
and the whole time she was conversing freely with a third person on a
subject totally different from either.
Mrs Sidgwick's earliest sittings appear to have been in 1874 soon
afterwards (13) :
The most striking seance I had with her was the fourth of a series held
at my own residence, when we obtained a word written on a sheet of our
own paper, under the table, in a light which I believe would have been
good enough to read ordinary print by. We thought that both Mr and
Mrs Jencken had their hands above the table, and we could not detect
any movement of their legs. But we were not well placed for observing
this, as we were continually instructed by the '
spirits '
to lean over the
table. ... It impressed me a good deal, though even at the time ... we
thought that Mrs Jencken might have written the word with her foot,
and the writing is just of the quality which can be so written without
much difflculty.
Ten or more years later (13), Mrs Sidgwick had ' ' '
'
two short series of sittings with Mrs Jencken ; but again with no con-
clusive results, except the discovery that she or her '
spirits '
are willing
to claim, as Spiritualistic phenomena, accidental occurrences quite
unconnected with her presence, and that she endeavours, as far as pos-
sible, to obtain from oneself the information required to answer one's
question. The raps that occur with Mrs Jencken are . . . peculiar
—
quite unlike what one can produce oneself by rapping with the foot.
SEPT. 1948 The Fox Sisters
They are loud double knocks, acquiring a special sound from the table,
floor, door or other object on which they appear to be made . . . they
are distinctly puzzling. . . . [but] no raps occurred when Mrs Jencken
sat with her feet in my lap, nor while she stood on a hassock with her
hand on the door on which the raps were to be made. '
:
Challenged on the point about the '
accidental occurrences ', Mrs Sidgwick
replied that the seance took place on April 22nd, 1885, at 14 Dean's Yard,
and there were eight persons present besides the medium. Mrs Sidgwick
'
wrote her account eight days after the seance (17) :
Seance at first in the dark . . . two single raps occurred on the drum ;
which lay on the table. After a time, Mrs Jencken, with Miss B. and -
Mr W., withdrew to the door, and while they were there the same rap on •
the drum was heard again. The 'spirits' claimed to have produced
them, but unfortunately we afterwards ascertained that they were caused ;
by water dropping from the gas lamp. [The lam.p was one of those in _
-
which water was present in the outer tube to prevent escape of gas.]
Lord Rayleigh had Mrs Jencken on several visits to his country house,
'
accompanied by the baby and a nurse and sometimes the husband. He
said (15) that '
the results were upon the whole disappointing, and cer-
tainly far short of those described by Sir W. Crookes. Nevertheless there
was a good deal not easy to explain away '.
The customary knocks were obtained on a door, by Kate merely placing
her fingers upon it. But
perhaps what struck us most were lights which on one or two occasions
floated about. They were real enough, but rather difficult to locate,
though I do not think they were ever more than six or eight feet away
from us. Like some of those described by Sir W. Crookes, they might
be imitated by phosphorous enclosed in cotton wool, but how Mrs
Jencken could manipulate them with her hands and feet held, and it
would seem with only her mouth at liberty, is a difficulty.
Lord Rayleigh mentions that after writing had once appeared, he arranged
pencils and paper inside a large glass retort, of which the neck was then
hermitically sealed.
For safety this was placed in a wooden box, and stood under the table
during several seances. . . . Though scribbling appeared on the box,
there v\'as nothing inside the retort. Possibly this was too much to
expect. I may add that on recently inspecting the retort [1919] I find
that the opportunity has remained neglected for forty-five years.
Lord Rayleigh felt that the incidents and the conditions were not good
enough to establish occult influences ; but yet he had '
always felt diffi-
culty in accepting the only alternative explanation '. He added that,
unlike some other mediums he had known, '
Mrs Jencken never tried to
divert one's attention, nor did she herself seem, to be observant or watching
for opportunities. I have often said that on the unfavourable hypothesis
her acting was as wonderful as her conjuring '.
zS^ Journal of The Society for Psychical Research sept, i 948
Jencken died in 1881, and Kate returned to her native land—and to al-
cohol—in 1885. Margaret, too, was only intermittently sober. They
were in fact slipping steadily down, and their end was squalid. Quarrels
broke out between them and Leah ; and about the same time '
persons
closely connected with the organised Spiritualists in New York caused
Kate's arrest, charging cruelty and neglect for her children ', (P. 373).
The action appears to have had Leah's sanction, but it came to nothing.
Margaret had now resorted to drugs in an attempt, probably, to escape
from alcohol. She suddenly left New York for London, and from an
address in Gower Street wrote her notorious letter to a New York news-
paper. She characterized Spiritualism as '
a curse ', denounced all and
sundry connected with it, and asserted that the '
rappings '
were the only
phenomena worthy of notice. Returning to New York she demonstrated
to journalists how her raps were produced by joint-cracking (16). Kate
was persuaded to give verbal approval to her sister's story ;
Margaret
gave lectures and demonstrations in New York and elsewhere, and at one
meeting Kate accompanied her on the platform but took no active part in
her sister's display. Within a month Kate had recanted (18), and Leah
followed suit a year later (P. 405). Forty years had elapsed since they first
launched Spiritualism upon the world.
Both of them were near their end, but Leah in fact was the first to go.
She fell dead, upbraiding a maidservant. This was on November ist,
1890. Leah was 76 years of age. On July 2nd, 1892, Kate died alone
and apparently in great distress. It was said (19), that during her last
illness, when she was apparently quite helpless, the knocks continued to
be heard about her room. Margaret died peacefully on March 8th, 1893,
and thus the three founders of Spiritualism passed from the scene within a
period of three years.
Something may now be said, however briefly, of the course of Spiritual-
ism in this country since the foundation of the movement. The date of
the first formal Spiritualist seance in Britain seems to be quite unknown.
It may be presumed that the accounts of the strange goings-on in New
York State reached this country in 1848 or soon afterwards ; and it is not
unlikely that groups of interested people may have '
tried the experiment
'
for themselves.
The first American medium to set foot in England was Mrs W. R.
Hayden, who arrived from Boston in October, 1852. She was the first of
a steady stream of American mediums. Their reception was mixed.
Thus, on being invited to attend a sitting with D. D. Home, Michael
Faraday asked :
'
If the eiTects are miracles, or the work of spirits, does he
[Home] admit the utterly contemptible character, both of them and their
results, up to the present time, in respect either of yielding information or
instruction or supplying any force or action of the least value to mankind?'
Podmore has characterised this emotional release as '
a parody of scientific
methods '. Another professional scientist. Sir David Brewster, accused
Home of '
insulting religion, common sense, etc., by ascribing his power
to the sacred dead '.
The anachronism of Spiritualistic belief lay in the novelty that, whilst
professedly a religion, it claimed to be susceptible of scientific proof.
Many people flew into its fold because they believed it had been scientifi-
SEPT. 1948 The Fox Sisters '
283
cally proved, many others recoiled because they believed the converse.
If to such considerations there be added humanity's age-old sentiments
concerning death, it is clear that there was ample opportunity for emotional
outbursts on the part of all sections of the community. The point is well
illustrated by a story told of Myers (perhaps apocryphally). At a dinner
table he asked a fellow-guest what he thought would happen to him after
death. No reply being forthcoming he repeated the question, and got the
response :
'
Well, I suppose I shall dwell in eternal bliss, but I wish you
wouldn't ask such unpleasant questions.'
Mrs Hayden had to endure all the emotional outbursts that were roused ;
fortunately for her, some of the feeling was favourable to her practices and
though she was a medium of feeble powers she appears to have been sincere,
and she made many converts. She remained in the country for only one
year, and during that time her husband launched the first Spiritualist
journal. The Spirit World. It lasted for only one issue. The first success-
ful Spiritualist paper, The Yorkshire Spiritualist Telegraph, began publica-
tion in April 1855. Light, the oldest surviving journal was founded in
1881.
Professional mediumship was of slower growth in this country than in the
United States. In 1869 the American medium Emma Hardinge Britten,
who lived for many years in England, said that she knew of only two pro-
fessional mediums in London but in the United States, the mediums
'
might be reckoned in thousands '. About the same time, Varley esti-
mated the number of mediums in the United Kingdom to be '
not more
than IDG '
(20).
Spiritualism made its progress in this country (though at a much slower
pace than in the United States) by virtue of two factors : (i) The exten-
sive publicity given to such celebrities as Home, Mrs Guppy, the Daven-
port brothers, Dr Monck, Dr Slade (who had to flee the country), J. J.
Morse, and Mrs Britten herself ; and (ii) the initiation of '
home circles ',
consisting of groups of people sitting in their own homes for table-tilting,
planchette (which was invented by a French Spiritualist in 1853), and the
ouija board. Even to-day it appears to be common ground amongst
Spiritualists that the main strength of the religion is to be found in the
home circles.
In the first twenty years after 1848 many small societies sprang up for
the holding of public seances and listening to trance addresses. Some of
these societies were misnamed '
Psychological Societies ', and a writer of
the period (23), said that the largest '
spiritual societies '
in the country
were the Psychological Society of Edinburgh, the Glasgow Psychological
Society, the Psychological Society of Liverpool, and the Dalston Associa-
tion of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Not until 1873 was a national organi-
sation of spiritualists founded. In that year a meeting of local organizations
and of individuals was held in Liverpool for '
a friendly union among
Spiritualists '
(21). '
Fierce attempts,' it was said, '
were made to kill the
organization, especially in the press, but the workers . . . succeeded in
planting a central establishment in London.' This society was called The
British National Association of Spiritualists. In 1882 the name was
changed to The Central Association of Spiritualists, and two years later
underwent reorganization and was again renamed, becoming The London
284 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research sept. 1948
Spiritualist Alliance. Its position in the Spiritualist movement is some
what exceptional, for whilst most societies are avowedly church organiza-
tions, the L.S.A., '
accepts psychic phenomena not as a new religion but
as the basis of all religions.'
Another independent society is the Marylebone Spiritualist Association
which was founded in 1872 and has a membership of over five thousand.
Before the Second World War it engaged and regularly filled the Queen's
Hall for its Sunday evening meetings.
There are many other societies which lead independent existences, some
of them reputable, but many others are only curious examples of medium-
istic private enterprise. They exist for as long as the medium is popular
and able to provide satisfactory messages.
The most significant union of Spiritualists in this country is the Spiri-
tualists' National Union which took shape in 1902 out of an earlier federa-
tion. The S.N.U. embraces some 500 churches with about 18,500 mem-
bers. The Union grants certificates to mediums who have satisfied the
Exponents Commitee of their '
ability to demonstrate survival of the
human spirit after bodily death and show a reasonable knowledge of the
Seven Principles and their implications '. The Seven Principles are a
statement of belief to which all members of the S.N.U. adhere. The
Principles are :
1. The Fatherhood of God.
2. The Brotherhood of Man.
3. The Communion of Spirits and the Ministry of Angels.
4. The Continuous Existence of the Human Soul.
5. Personal Responsibility.
6. Compensation and Retribution Hereafter for all Good and Evil
Deeds done on Earth.
7. Eternal Progress Open to Every Human Soul.
Sir A. Conan Doyle and some other members wished to add an eighth
principle, The Leadership of Jesus. Members are free to accept this,
but it has never been officially adopted. Though no originality is claimed
for the Principles, their actual wording was received through the medium-
ship of Mrs Emma Hardinge Britten.
The Greater World Christian Spiritualist League is almost the only
other large-scale federation. It accepts the leadership and believes in the
'
redemptive power '
of Jesus Christ. The League has it own '
spirit
teacher ', a guide who passes under the name of Zodiac and is alleged to
be the unnamed scribe who asked Jesus, '
Which is the first command-
ment of all?' (Mark 12, 28-34).
The total number of Spiritualists attached to churches and societies in
this country has been estimated at 50,000 to 100,000. After 100 years ol effort
this figure seems surprising in its modesty, representing only one or two
persons in every thousand of the population. To this comment. Spiritual-
ists oflFer the ready reply that the importance and power of their movement
must not be measured by the numbers of the flock but by the influence of
Spiritualism on contemporary thought and belief. There is no means of
estimating this influence (whatever it may be), but the reader may never-
theless be interested in two questions relative to the problem of post-
SEPT. 1948 The Fox. Sisters 285
mortem survival which were obtained by the British Institute of PubUc
Opinion (The Gallup Poll) from a cross-section of the public on December
15th, 1947. The two questions, with the replies given in percentages,
were as follows :
(A) Uo you believe in any jorm oj lije ajter death f
YES NO don'-r KNOW
1 OTAL
%
49
%
27 .
%
24
ivien - - - - -
44 24 •
W^omen - _ _ -
54 22 24 -
Ages
21-29 - -
46 26 28
30-49 - - - -
48 ,
0
24
50 and over _ _ _
52 .
20 22
Economic
*
Higher _ _ _ _
55 25 20
Middle - - - - - 56 24 20
Lower . _ _ _ - 46 28 26
Lrroup L) -
45 .27 2o
IvbLlCjiOUb . -
Church of England 49 28 23
Non-Conformist 61 16 23
Roman Catholic 66 15 19
Scottish Church •52 24 24
Other religions - - - - 46 -. 25 29
None - - ' - - 56- 31
(B) '
If YES : What form do you think it takes? '
[Life after death)
%
Spiritual form ; the spirit does not die - - - 19
Heaven or Hell, according to life led on earth - -
4
Reincarnation in one form or another _ _ _
^
Paradise ; heaven - -- -- -- 3
Mind and spirit on a higher plane - - - - 2
Similiar to life on earth ; meet again those we have
known before - -- -- -- 2
Same as now, only in a higher form - - - - i
Don't know ; no idea - - - - - - 13
Miscellaneous - - - - - - - 2
49%
The reader will try perhaps to draw from these figures his own con-
clusions, and the pleasure or dismay he will thus receive will vary according
to the views he happens to hold on the subject of life beyond the tomb.
What would be of far livelier interest—if we could but learn it—would no
doubt be the opinion now held on the subject of Spiritualism by the
three ladies who began it all a hundred years ago.
286 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research sept. 1948
'
REFERENCES
1. Podmore, Frank : Modern Spiritualism, London, 1902.
2. Wade, John : British History Chronologically Arranged, London, 1839.
3. Kittredge, G. L. : Witchcraft in Old and Neiu England, Harvard, 1929.
4. Capron, F. W. : Modern Spiritualism, Its Facts and Fanaticisms, Boston,
1855-
5. Davenport, R. B. : The Death-blozu to Spiritualism, New York, 1888,
1897.
6. Owen, R. D. : Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World, London,
i860.
7. Taylor, W. G. : Katie Fox, New York and London, 1933.
8. Doyle, A. C. : The History of Spiritualism, London, 1926.
9. Seybert Commission : Preliminary Report on Spiritualism, Philadelphia,
1887.
10. Proc. S.P.R., Vol. 5.
11. Owen, R. D. : The Debatable Land, New York, 1872.
12. Crookes, W. : Researches in the Phenomena of Spiritualism, London,
1874-
13. Proc. S.P.R., Vol. 4.
14. Jour. S.P.R., Vol. 3.
15. Proc. S.P.R., Vol. 30.
16. Ne2v York World, October 21st, 1888.
17. Jour. S.P.R., Vol. 3.
18. Jour. S.P.R., Vol. 4.
19. Fodor, N. : Encyclopaedia of Psychic Science, London, ca. 1933.
20. London Dialectical Society : Report on Spiritualism, London, 1871.
21. Britten E. H. : Nineteenth Century Miracles, London, 1884.
22. Leigh, J. : Manual and Who's Who of Spiritualism and Psychic Research,
London, 1936.
23. The Spiritualist, Vol. 3, London, 1873.
REVIEWS
The Curse of Ignorance : A History of Mankind. By Arthur Findlay.
(London: Psychic Press. 1948. Vol. I, ii66pp. ; Vol. II, 1199 pp.
15s. per volume.)
In 1939 Mr Findlay brought out The Psychic Stream, or The Source and
Growth of the Christian Faith, a book of about 1200 pages which was
reviewed in the Journal for November-December, 1939. Now, with
vigour unimpaired by the lapse of nine difficult years, and uncurbed by the
paper shortage which has afflicted so many authors, he has brought out a
sequel of almost double the length. For the first attempt ' to write world
history from the psychic angle of thought ', as the publishers describe the
book under review, two large volumes may not be excessive, but a reviewer
for the ^.V.V^. Journal, who cannot indulge a commensurate indifference as
to printing space, is in some difficulty.
The present reviewer proposes to overcome this by resisting a strong
inclination to summarise and comment on those large portions of the book
which deal with aspects of world history having only a slight connection
with psychic phenomena, or with the beliefs concerning them held by men
at different times and places. The reader of these portions of the book,
SEPT. 1948 Reviews 287
however much he may dissent from many of the opinions expressed, will
hardly fail to recognise that they are the opinions of a man of wide reading
and great experience of practical alTairs, the sincerity of whose ethical
purpose is beyond question.
Mr Findlay (Vol. II, p. 965) attributes half the troubles of mankind '
to
ignorance of how best to live on earth, to power politics and fanatical
nationalism ', and the other half to what he calls '
superstition '. The
results of these -two errors cannot always, as the author makes clear, be
distinguished. For a full statement of the meaning he attaches to '
super-
stition '
the author, with so much fresh ground to cover, refers the reader
to The Psychic Stream, contenting himself in the later book with a brief
recapitulation here and there : see e.g. Vol. I, p. 133 and Vol. II, pp.
946-947.
The particular form of '
superstition '
that Mr Findlay most dislikes is
deviation from the simple Spiritualism, which he ardently embraces, in
the direction of belief in any superhuman order of being. This seems to
me a dangerous position for a Spiritualist to assume. If unquestioning
belief must be accorded to mediumistic declarations purporting to come
from men and women now in the '
etheric world ', as to the conditions of
life and progress there, on what principle can credence be refused to
frequent affirmations reaching us through the same channels and osten-
sibly from the same source that one of the conditions of that life is contact
with Beings of a higher order than themselves.''
Belief in survival has in the past been closely associated with some form
of theology or philosophy going beyond the bare ethical framework to
which Mr Findlay would conhne it, and more particularly with the
Mystery Religions which are his pet abomination. Is it not possible that
the religious doctrines he so violently attacks—perhaps because he is most
familiar with them in obsolete definitions—are more effective and natural
allies of survivalism than the '
etheric '
hypothesis, which looks very much
like an attempt to meet the materialists half-way?
W. H. S.
The Bishop and the Cobbler. By L. E. Jones. (London: Seeker &
Warbourg. 1948. 224 pp. ids. 6d.)
Mr Jones is as severe a critic of currently accepted religion and morals
as Mr Findlay, and no less effective a critic because his book is on a smaller
scale and his touch lighter.
The first chapter, '
Darkest Death,' gives '
grounds, other than faith, for
believing that our personalities do in fact survive bodily death '. It is an
ingenious parable about a British colonel lost in the remoter parts of Brazil
for several years, and declared by the President of the Royal Exploration
Society, in most authoritative style, to be certainly dead. Another explorer,
who finds him alive but unwilling to return to civilization, reports accord-
ingly, is flatly disbelieved, and returns to Brazil to obtain proof of his
statements. The Colonel is persuaded to prove his continued existence
and identity by methods of his own devising, methods which, as described
in detail, are a close parallel to the cross-correspondences with which we
all are, or ought to be, familiar. From this Mr Jones proceeds to an acute
288 Journal of The Society for PsycJiical Research sept. 1948
discussion of the reasons why various kinds of people are indifferent or
hostile to any examination of the evidence for survival.
After several chapters critical not of the essence of religion but. of the
forms in which it has developed, he attempts a constructive answer to the
question, what ought conscientious persons dissatisfied with these forms
to teach the young. In his programme he would include the teaching of
survival, '
if it [i.e. the evidence for survival] is accepted as, at any rate,
suggesting the strongest probability—short of strict scientific proof
amenable to controlled experiment—that we do in fact survive '. The
temptation to quote extensively from this stimulating little book is hard to
resist. Mr Jones is an S.P.R. member of many years' standing. It is to be
hoped that he will find other occasions for illuminating discussion of our
subject. .
;
'.
'
. , , W. H. S.
Au Diapason du Ciel. By Marcelle de Jouvenel. Introduction by
Gabriel Marcel. (Paris : La Colombe ; Editions du Vieux Colom-
bier. 1948. 195 pp.)
M. Gabriel Marcel, who contributes a most valuable Introduction to
Mme de Jouvenel's automatic scripts, is well known as an '
existential
'
philosopher, though there are deep differences between his kind of
Existentialism and the nihilistic brand popularized by M. Sartre. He
gives us at the outset of his Introduction a short explanation of his view of
the human body, insisting that our usual habit of regarding it as a tool or
instrument is mistaken. '
When I consider my body as my tool, I am
giving way to the kind of unconscious illusion which makes me transfer to
the soul the powers of which the body mechanisms are the attributes.
Here I really tend to convert soul into body and enter into an infinite
regression.' He invites us to consider the body rather as a medium. When
we are confronted with telepathic experiences, we are driven to postulate
'
sympathetic mediation ', but we should regard all experience as mediated
and the real interest of the '
strange '
facts of extra-sensory perception is
the light they may throw on our general experience and on the nature of
our psychological make-up. Once we have liberated ourselves from the
illusion of the body-tool destroyed by death, we may hope to begin to
conceive an order of being in connection with a '
cosmic consensus '.
M. Marcel's personal interest in ultra-normal perceptions was aroused
in 1917, when he joined some friends in experiments with a ouija board.
The results were a jnixture of evidential information and what seemed to be
imaginative romancing about a young soldier lost in the retreat of the
French Army. On a subsequent occasion he obtained, without asking for
it, a clear prediction of future operations on the Italian front, with precise
details as to places to be captured and the number of prisoners to be taken
by the Austrians.
The scripts of Mme de Jouvenel are, as M. Marcel points out, of a very
different kind. They do not yield much evidential material, but he suggests
that they should be read without that antecedent scepticism which has '
so
deplorably paralysed research '. They purport to come from, or perhaps
one should say through, Mme de Jouvenel's son, Roland, who died in
May 1946, aged fourteen. Mme de Jouvenel had no previous interest in
SEPT. 1948 Reviews 289
anything like automatic writing. She disHked spirituaUsm and occultism.
But when she was finally persuaded by a persistent friend to try taking a
pencil in her hand, she received a clearly written '
message '
almost
immediately. In addition to her son's assurances of his presence and
sympathy, there were words about something she would be able to do for
an American soldier, a friend of Roland's, whom she had tried in vain to
trace. To her amazemient, the friend called at her house next day. Thus
encouraged, she continued to let her hand write, day by day, and the series
published here covers about a year.
Although there are distinct fragments of precognition and other inter-
esting phenomena to be found in the record, the main interest certainly
lies, as M. Marcel says, in the character and originality of the writings
themselves. They are, in effect, forcible letters of spiritual direction,
always inculcating the practices and obediences of orthodox Catholicism,
a form of faith to which Mme de Jouvenel was not much inclined to con-
form previously. To readers who ask if these teachings are to be taken as
true, M. Marcel can, as he says, only give a guarded answer. But in any
case, the question is not so much one of literal, descriptive truth as of
essential values.
These values are so evident that M. Marcel is fully justified in his opinion
that the book poses a delicate question for Catholic readers. The Catholic
Church is extremely suspicious of anything verging on necromancy.
Isn't there a risk that readers of Au Diapason du Ciel may be led to try their
own hand at communication with the departed? But isn't there also good
reason for Catholic philosophers and theologians to ^yake up and pay
serious attention to the '
strange '
facts studied by psychical research? It is
clearly in the hope that some of them may be encouraged to abandon their
disdain and study the subject with proper attention that M. Marcel has so
decisively sponsored the publication of this book.
T. B.
The Journal of Parapsychology, Vol. XII, No. 2, June 1948. (Durham,
North Carolina : Duke University Press.)
The symposium on the next ten years of research continues in this num-
ber. Eisenbud suggests psychoanalytic data as a place to look for a possible
universal psi effect. Gibson suggests the discovery and investigation of
gifted psi subjects. Hettinger recommends the study of psychometry and
the training of sensitives. Humphrey looks to study of the personality
characteristics of good senders, receivers, and experimenters, and also the
training of mediums. Rhine regards more exploratory work as an immedi-
ate objective and also looks to the extension of study over methods of
conscious control of psi processes, precognition, and the problem of post-
mortem survival. Schmeidler also considers personality difli'erences as
important and suggests the study of the eifect of brain injuries on psi
capacities and research with the electro-encephalogram. Thouless pro-
poses increasing the range of problems covered by laboratory work and
improving the design of experiment. Warcollier considers the problem
of the nature of psychic coupling and the influence of the physical nature of
the stimulus. Woodruff looks forward to the devising of a repeatable
290 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research sept. 1948
experiment, and also the study of personality differences in relation to psi
ability.
There is also a report of an important experiment by W. B. Scherer on
'
Spontaneity as a Factor in E.S.P.'. He had a mechanical apparatus for
E.S.P. measurement which subjects were free to work at any time during
the day when they felt a hunch that they could get it right. On comparing
results obtained under these conditions with those obtained in various
control series under more normal experimental conditions, Scherer found
that his subjects scored very significantly above chance on the spontaneous
series whereas the control series yielded nothing significantly above mean
chance expectation. The author concludes that the condition of spontan-
eity favours the psi process.
The idea of this experiment is brilliant ; its design is, however, defec-
tive. Apparently the control groups were not composed of the same indi-
viduals as the experimental group and the significance of the difference
is estimated by comparing the total experimental score with that of the
control groups. This, however, means that a significant difference might
be due to the fact that the experimental group included one or more psy-
chically gifted subjects while the control groups did not. This possibility
could have been eliminated in several ways : (i) by using the same subjects
in experimental and control series and comparing not the totals but each
subject's experimental score with his own control score, (ii) by using the
same subjects in experimental and control series and making each perform
an equal number of trials and then comparing the total scores, (iii) by using
different subjects in experimental and control series and comparing, not
the total scores, but the number of individuals scoring above mean chance
expectation in the experimental and the control series.
The experiment is so good and so important that it is to be hoped that
it will be repeated with a more satisfactory method of assessment of
significance. Method no. (iii) could indeed be used by the author with
his present data. It would only be necessary for him to work out his
results in a different way.
R. H. T.
THE PERROTT STUDENTSHIP
The Perrot Studentship in Psychical Research at Trinity College,
Cambridge, has been awarded to Dr S. G. Soal, who proposes to use it to
carry on the E.S.P. research on which he has already been engaged with
Mrs Stewart. His tenure runs for one year from Michaelmas 1948.
MRS ALFRED LYTTELTON
As this issue of the Journal goes to press, we learn with deep regret of
the death of the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., at the age of 83.
Mrs Lyttelton, became a member of the Society ;n 1902, was elected a
SEPT. 1948 Reviews 291
member of the Council in 1928, and was President of the Society for the
years 1933-34. An obituary notice will be published in Proceedings.
Erratum
On page 258 of the June-July issue of the Journal, under the heading
Research, Reports of Cases ', for '
Miss K. Richmond '
please read
Mrs K. Richmond '.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i
For Private Circulation among Members and Associates only
October—November, 1948 Vol. XXXIV—No. 649
CONTENTS
The '
Haunted '
Dance Hall
Precognitive Dreams and the Dunne Experiment
Editor's Notes
Correspondence :
The Psi Processes
The Investigation of Spontaneous Cases
Forecasts and Precognition
Medical Section of A. S. P. R.
Dowsing .....
The Fox Sisters : A Correction .
Reviews . . •
. .
Notices to Members ....
Obituary : Mrs Alice Macdonald Fleming
Meeting of the Council
Meeting of the Society
New Members ...
PAGE
294
300
302
305
306
308
310
310
310
310
314
314
314
315
315
PRIVATE MEETINGS
A PRIVATE meeting of the Society will be held in the Library, 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C.i on
Monday, 10 January 1949, at 6.30 p.m. .-. •
when a lecture on Personality Tests in Psychical Research will be given
by Dr R. H. Thouless.
^
Another private meeting will be addressed by Dr Thouless on
Friday, 28 January 1949, at 6.30 p.m. ' ' '
when he will give an account of his recent visit to the Parapsychology
Department of Duke University. •
,
294 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research OCT.-NOV. 1948
THE ' HAUNTED ' DANCE HALL
' By D. J. West
From time to time the Society is called upon by members of the public to
investigate supposed hauntings ; but paranormal phenomena are rarely
discovered in connection with them, and so reports are not published in the
Journal. This case is unexceptional in failing to provide evidence for the
paranormal, but an account of it may be of interest as an unusually clear
illustration of several of the psychological factors which give these haunting
stories their extraordinarily persistent and recurrent character.
The names of persons and places have been altered for the purposes of
this report, but the real names and original statements are, of course,
preserved in the Society's files. In the first instance the place was visited
and the people interviewed by the Research Officer, accompanied by Mr
J. F. Nicol, who kindly acted as notetaker. A second visit was paid by
Mr Chesters, a member of the Society, and some months later a further
investigation was carried out by members of the Manchester Psychical
Research Institute. The conclusions of all these investigators were
substantially the same. In particular, all were agreed that the phenomena
were not due to any supernormal cause, but that neither were they pro-
duced by deliberate fraud. The people who experienced the haunting
were obviously suffering from its effects. They seemed genuinely
frightened and anxious to be rid of it.
The case opened on the evening of January 28th, 1948, when Mrs
Brown and Mr Poole called upon the Research Officer to seek advice.
They were respectively proprietress and manager of a dance hall in Ashton
(a town in the north of England) which was losing money on account of
what they believed to be a haunt. Mrs Bro%vn, and a partner of hers, Mr
Owen, had bought the business in April 1947 from a man who also owned
some cinemas. It seemed to them a promising concern, and some police-
men whom Mrs Brown consulted told her that there was no reason why the
place should not pay well.
Ever since Mrs Brown took over there had been a long chain of mishaps.
The microphone, the amplifier, the lights, the geyser, the electric clock,
in fact every bit of the installation that could possibly break down was
doing so repeatedly, and for no apparent reason. Things were continually
getting lost or broken. The doors had holes in them where the plywood
panels had been stove in with heavy blows. Several chairs and tables had
been smashed. Money and small articles were always disappearing. Two
tickets for a police ball were taken from the pocket of Mr Poole's coat as it
hung in the office. On one occasion Mrs Brown and her partner, Mr
Owen, both counted some money and put it in a sealed envelope in the till.
When Mrs Brown opened the envelope, which was still sealed, a pound was
missing. Money was even taken from boys who had volunteered to help
in the cloakroom. A young man called Bob, who had worked for Mrs
Brown a long time and never been known to steal anything, ran away
without explanation, taking seven pounds with him. It was as if there
were a hoodoo on the place and nothing would go right.
OCT.-NOV. 1948 The '
Haunted ' Dance Hall 295
For a long time Mrs Brown never supposed her troubles were anything
more than an extraordinar}^' run of bad luck due to normal causes. Some-
times she thought there might be someone trying to sabotage the under-
taking. About a month after they arrived, however, an accident happened
which set Mrs Brown thinking. The lights of the main hall had shades
which each contained five glass panels. During a dance one evening, one
of these glass panels fell down and nearly hit four dancers who were passing
underneath. She got the firm who had fixed the lights to remove all the
other glass panels. The workmen expressed surprise, because all the other
panels were firmly fixed and could not possibly fall. Mr Poole said they
had told him there must be a saboteur at work, as the glass panel could no't
possibly have fallen unless it had been tampered with. This was im-
possible, as the shade could not have been interfered with unless it had
been lowered to the ground, and there was no opportunity for anyone to
do that. ^
^
In May 1947 a more serious accident happened. Part of the ceiling of
the dance hall is made of glass, and above it is a loft. During a dance the
ceiling began to leak, and Mr Poole, the manager, and Mr Owen went up
mto the loft to put it right. Mr Poole accidentally stepped on to one of the
glass panels in the roof and fell through. He managed to grasp one of the
beams and held on swinging for some minutes until Mr Roberts and other
members of the band got up to the loft and hauled him back again. Mr
Poole said he was sitting regaining his breath when Mr Owen recrossed
the roof in order to come down. He, too, stepped on the glass, fell right
through on to the dance floor and hurt himself badly. He was conscious,
but had to be carried off" to hospital where he stayed twenty weeks. His
pelvis was fractured, his right arm broken and he had failed to recover the
use of his right hand. Mrs Brown was very shocked by this accident. '
I
never thought of the supernatural at the time,' she said, '
the horror of
the accident was so great. We took him to the hospital and gave the
people back their money.'
At this stage Mrs Brown asked Mr Poole if he thought there were some-
thing very queer going on. Mr Poole then confided that he thought the
place was haunted. Mrs Brown had always returned home to sleep, but for
the first five weeks Mr Poole slept in the hall, although he had lodgings in
the town. He said he did this because he felt sure there was something
gomg on. He expected to catch someone breaking in, but he never did.
After a week or two he realised that the happenings were supernatural. At
first Mrs Brozvn laughed at him and told him not to be silly, but Mr Poole
stuck to the idea. He said he was not a man to be frightened of nothing.
He had served in the Forces for six years during the war, in Iceland, Burma
and elsewhere. He was thirty years of age, and had been a wrestler.
The experiences which Mr Poole related to Mrs Brown and repeated for
our benefit were of several kinds. First there were noises. He slept in a
little cubby-hole known as the band-room, underneath the balcony.
Practically every night he was kept awake from about i a.m. until 5 by
mexplicable sounds, as of doors banging, footsteps walking across the hall
or on the balcony above him. The place was always locked up, and when
he shone a torch there was never anyone there.
Second, there were apparent physical movements. The band-room was
296, Journal of The Society for Psychical Research oct.-nov. 1948
fitted up as a cloakroom, with a gap in one wall which could be closed by
a detachable shutter clipped in place with wing-nuts. One night he
put this shutter up as usual, but was disturbed at about 2.30 a.m. by a
slight noise. Switching on a torch and pointing it in the direction of the
noise, he was just in time to see the w(3oden shutter coming to rest slowly
on the floor into a position propped up against the wall beneath the gap, as
if it had been detached and placed there by an invisible hand. On another
occasion Mr Poole was walking in the dark down the stairs to the cloak-
room. At the head of the stairs was a door kept shut by a spring. He
walked through this doorway unthinkingly, and as he was passing he felt
the pressure of the door swinging back to close after him. Then he realised
that he had not pushed the door open at all. It must have been pushed
open for him as he approached. He fled.
Lastly, there were the faces which could be seen when he looked through
the gaps in the ceiling to the loft above. The faces were often there but
he did not recognise them. One particular face looked like a judge, his
hand shaking as if remonstrating, and surrounded by a crowd of people.
Mr Poole also said there were queer faces in the mirrors in the hall, and
there was a horrible atmosphere about the place which he could feel.
Mrs Brown said that when she heard all these stories of Mr Poole's she
was inclined to scoff, but she decided to stay in the place with him one
night to see if she could experience anything herself. She brought with
her a friend, Mrs Field, a lady who had at times helped with the work at
the dance hall. They heard nothing unusual and fell asleep. Mrs Field
was awakened by a noise like someone treading a machine, and she saw a
light go on in the main hall. In the morning Mrs Brown, who had heard
nothing, made light of the whole affair, but when she went out into the
main hall she had a shock. A crucifix appeared in the wall. She called out
'
Oh glory be! Look at that '. Mr Poole and Mrs Field both came to her
and both of them saw the crucifix. Mr Poole cried out, '
That's nothing,
there's another one ', and they all saw a second cross. Gradually the
crosses faded away before their eyes. This experience convinced Mrs
Brown that the place was haunted. After that both she and Mrs Field did
see from time to time the faces in the shadows of the rafters just as Mr
Poole had described them. Matters went from bad to worse. The mis-
haps continued. People stopped coming and the business lost money.
Mrs Field and Mrs Brown both felt oppressed by a malignant atmosphere.
Mr Poole said he tried in vain to fight against the evil influence which
seemed to pervade the place.
This, in outline, was the story told to the investigators. The first task
was to see if corroboration could be found for the idea that the hall was
haunted. Mrs Brown was asked if any other people believed in the ghost.
She said that for fear of an adverse effect upon the business they had
avoided discussing the matter with outsiders, but they had reason to
believe other people knew about it. At one time the hall had been used as
a religious meeting place, and she supposed it possible that spirits who
had associations with it at that time might disapprove of its use for dancing.
A Mrs Southern (i), who lived at a neighbouring inn, had remarked to
Mrs Brown that the place was haunted. The bandsman, Mr Jack
OCT -NOV. 1948 The 'Haunted' Dance Hall 297
Roberts (2) had remarked to Mr Poole that there was '
something '
in the
loft. He subsequently ceased coming to play there, and Mrs Brozvfi sup-
posed it was because he did not like the awful atmosphere of the place.
She made enquiries and found that there had been four changes of ow'ner-
ship in the last five years. No one could stick it. Miss Dale (3), secretary'
to the former ov. ner, said that when her brother-in-law, who w^as manager,
slept in the place, he and his wife heard footsteps at night. A young girl
who came frequently to the dances, known to them only by the name
Margaret (4), ran up to Mr Poole in fear one night, saying she had seen an
apparition on the piano and the hall must be haunted.
At one stage Mr Poole, at Mrs Brozcns suggestion, sought the aid of a
Catholic priest (5), asking him to come and bless the building. At first
the priest was disinclined to do so, but after consulting the canon, he came.
Mr Poole said that Bob (6) (the boy who had run away with the money)
had stayed one night with him in the hall, but was so frightened by
ghostly noises that he ran away and wouldn't come again.
Here, then, was quite an array of witnesses, but when they were con-
sulted by the investigators, a very different picture came to light.
(1) Miss Southern, asked if she thought the place was haunted, said 'Yes'.
Asked her reasons, she said she didn't really know, she just felt it ; she
supposed she must be psychic.
(2) Mr Jack Roberts did not reply to a letter of enquiry', but his mother
was inter\"iewed. She stated that his reason for ceasing to attend at the
hall was that it was bad policy for a bandsman to play when there was a
poor attendance. She remarked that he used to bring his things home
each night because nothing was safe in the hall on account of the petty
pilfering and sabotage that was always going on.
(3) Miss Dale, in a letter to the Research Officer, wTOte :
'
Your informa-
tion regarding my noticing any unusual occurrences at the Dance
Hall is entirely incorrect and my sister and brother-in-law, Mr and Mrs
, also state that they have never seen or heard anything out of the
ordinar}' during their sojourn there.'
(4) The opportunity for the investigators to question the girl Margaret
did not arise, but later Mrs Brown spoke to her and reported to us that she
denied seeing any apparition.
(5) The Catholic priest and the canon both denied all knowledge of the
hall having been blessed at all. However, a cloakroom attendant at the
hall stated that one morning he entered the hall to find a priest blessing the
place. Mrs Brozun was present. This testim^ony conflicts with both that
of the priest, who denied that there had been any blessing, and with that
of Mrs Brown who stated that she was not present when the blessing took
place.
(6) Boh, who was said to be so terrified by the ghostly noises, maintained
on being questioned that he had neither seen nor heard anything, but he
did not like the atmosphere and would not care to staj- in the place alone.
During the night he spent there with Mr Poole, he heard only odd creaks,
and no footsteps.
Among the persons questioned were the following :
(7) Mr Thompson, caretaker at the hall, an ex-regular soldier, stated that
he had noted nothing unusual except that on one occasion whilst he was
298 Joimial of The Society for Psychical Research oct.-nov. 1948
tending the fire for the central heating, he heard three or four unexplained
footsteps.
(8) Mr Owen, Mrs Brown's partner, declined to make any statement.
It seemed that his relatives disapproved of his connection with the dance
hall, which they considered an unsound proposition.
(9) The local police and the editor of the local paper were consulted.
They were familiar with the history of the hall, but knew of no tradition of
haunting. The place had been built as a school, later it was used as a
chapel. It had been empty for ten years, then became a billiard hall and
finally, five years ago, it came to be used as a dance hall, but it was struc-
turally unsuited, and there was a much better, more modern dance hall
nearby. In their opinion the dance business there was something of a
white elephant, and had only paid during the war when the district was
crowded with American troops. There was therefore ample reason for
the frequent changes of ownership.
The hall itself, when inspected by the investigators, proved to be an old,
dull-looking brick building, from the outside more like a store-house than
a place of entertainment. The building was badly in need of repair.
Inside, although recent attempts had been made to improve the internal
decorations, there were signs of damp, and the general effect was somewhat
dismal.
There was every opportunity for mysterious creaks and noises. The
night the Research Officer spent in the hall, in addition to the usual creak-
ings of the wooden dance fioor, rattlings of the doors and whistling of the
wind through the rafters, there Vv'as a queer rhythmic sound v/hich put the
watchers on the alert. It was traced to a dripping water cistern.
A few months after she first reported the case, Mrs Brozvn sold the
business. During some renovations following the change of ownership,
a disused sewer was discovered running under the building (close to where
Mr Poole used to sleep) which was quite a runway for rats. The new
proprietor, who runs a chain of dance halls, had with his experience and
capital been able to increase staff and improve the building, so that the
business is now doing much better. Nothing ghostly has happened since
he took it over.
Clearly the case depended entirely upon the three persons most closely
concerned with the hall, Mr Poole, Mrs Brown and Mrs Field. No one
else could be found who was willing to bear out the theory that the place
was haunted. The categorical denials by Mr Roberts, Miss Dale, Bob, and
Margaret might suggest that the main characters in the case were deliber-
ately lying in their accounts of the experiences of the other people con-
cerned. If so, it was probably because they were anxious to convey to the
investigators their conviction of the reality of their own experiences, rather
than because they wanted to put over a story which they themselves did not
believe.
If there was nothing unusual about the dance hall, it remains to be
explained why three persons, Mr Poole, Mrs Brown and Mrs Field should
all have had visionary experiences of ghostly faces and the like. Some clue
may be had from a consideration of the people concerned.
First, there is Mr Poole, who might be called the chief agent in the case.
OCT.-NOV. 1948 The ' Haunted' Dance Hall 299
He it was who began the story of the haunt and persisted with it in the face
of ridicule until the two ladies also became convinced. Mr Poole was in
his thirties, shortish, but heavily-built, with strong-looking limbs and a
thick-set countenance, fitting in weir with his description of himself as a
wrestler. His eyes gleamed out of extraordinarily narrow slits, adding a
sinister touch to an otherwise ungainly appearance.
Psychologically there was something odd about Mr Poole. He did not
strike me as being a well-developed, integrated personality. On close
questioning he admitted to a belief in his own psychic powers, particularly
in respect of prem_onitions. When, at the Research Officer's suggestion,
he saw a psychologist in London, he described how he got infallibly correct
'
hunches '. The psychologist held some fingers behind his back and
asked Mr Poole to wait for one of his '
hunches '
and then say how many
fingers were being held out. Although Mr Poole was confident of his
success, and the experiment was repeated ad lib, only chance results were
obtained. According to Mrs Brozm and Mrs Field,'Mv Poole sometimes
went into '
trances '
and spoke strangely. One night he arrived at Mrs
Brown's very pale and shaken, saying that the thing from the dance hall had
followed him home. Mr Poole was unmarried, and Mrs Brown remarked
that he was '
very young in things like that '. He seemed rather dependent
upon Mrs Brown both psychologically and materially. She had be-
friended him, given him the job at the dance hall, and even taken him into
her house for a time. It must have been an acute disappointment to him
that he had not been able to justify her trust by m.aking the dance hall ven-
ture a success, and it was probably a great relief to Mr Poole to be able to
attribute the failure to external supernormal causes.
Thus we have the first requirement for a '
haunt '
of this nature, an
individual subject to dissociation, who can gain some relief from inner
conflict by means of an hysterical projection of ghostly visions which serve
to excuse his own failure. For a long timic the '
phenomena '
were con-
vincing to none but himself, but such was the conjunction of external
circumstances that Mrs Brown eventually succumbed and attributed to the
'hat outsiders could see was a series of misfortunes caused by lack
of business acumen, staffing inefficiency, petty pilfering, and sabotage.
Mrs Brozvn was a slim, well-preserved lady, older than Mr Poole. She
is separated from her husband, who was an alcoholic. She ran a hair-
dressing business, and took on the dance hall as a side line. She asserted
so often and so volubly that she was an experienced business organiser
that one felt she was trying to convince herself that the failure of the dance
hall was not due to incompetence. Both Mrs Brown and Mrs Field were
suggestible people, and once an hallucinatory- experience had been precipi-
tated, others followed readily. Shadows on the walls and in the rafters
formed the basis of most of the '
faces '
seen.
Mr Poole, Mrs Brozvn and Mrs Field on being questioned asserted that
when they saw faces, they all saw the same faces. In the case of Mrs
Brown and Mr Poole, who saw faces in the rafters when the Research Officer
was present, this claim was disproved. When they both together gazed at
the same spot in silence, and afterwards were questioned separately as to
Avhat they had seen, their descriptions did not tally. Mr Chesters found
that by giving her a suitable lead he could make Mrs Brown see faces.
3°° • - Journal of The Societyfor Psychical Research OCT.-NOV. 1948
wherever he suggested. The psychologist who later saw Mrs Brown and
Mr Poole performed a similar experiment, taking them into an almost dark
room in which he said people had seen ghostly visions. They responded
appropriately by seeing lights and faces, although in fact, so far as was
known, no one had ever seen anything in the room before.
Mrs Field's visions were rather different. She was suffering from a
bereavement, and kept seeing the face of her dead son. These experiences
were painful for her, so the investigators did not in her case pry too closely
or see whether visions could be induced by suggestion.
Mr Poole, Mrs Brown, and Mrs Field all said they had not experienced
anything like hallucinations or visions prior to coming to the dance hall.
If correct, this shows how easily hallucinations can be induced in normal
persons by a sufficiently suggestible atmosphere. It must be noted, how-
ever, that in this case the hallucinations were mainly built up from light
and shade effects on the walls and rafters, much as figures may be seen in
ink-blots, or faces in crystals. This dependence upon points de repere
indicates a more rudimentary form of projection than if the apparitions
had been seen to move about realistically among their surroundings.
Thus we have, besides an active agent, the second important factor in
the genesis of the haunt ;
persons susceptible to hallucinations and suitably
suggestible. The third factor, external circumstances (in this case a string
of mishaps), served to confirm the idea of the haunt. Finally, the whole
affair was probably perpetrated by the unconscious motive of all con-
cerned to find some scapegoat for the failure of the business.
PRECOGNITIVE DREAMS AND THE DUNNE EXPERIMENT
In a letter to the Research Officer, dated August 8th, 1948, Mr J. C. M.
Kruisinga, of Vriezenveen, Holland, wrote as follows :
On p. 269 of your most interesting paper '
The Investigation of
Spontaneous Cases '
{Proceedings, Vol. XLVIII, Part 175) you suggest
that the Dunne experiment is not repeatable, as no successes have been
published since the 1933 trial.
I am sorry to say you are not altogether right in surmising that
nothing has been published concerning precognitive dreams. In
Holland two complete series of dream records, each covering about
three years, have been submitted to statistical analysis, the results of
which have been duly published in the Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie,
the Dutch S.P.R. bi-monthly. One of these series, consisting of 1444
records, has further been checked against pure coincidence. As a
matter of fact it was my own, as well as the control series I used for my
checking. Dr Kooy of Delft University and I had a lot of trouble about
standardising both '
mixed '
and pure chance influences, and fencing in
chance results, but we got through all right, I think.
I have summarised my own concluding paper on the Dunne effect
{Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie, XII, pp. 213-228) as follows :
Dunne Effect or Coincidence.? (Summary in English)
Earlier in this paper (Vol XI, pp. 173-182) I have commented upon a
series of dream records I completed by March 1937, and indicated a
OCT.-NOV. 1948 Precognitive Dreams 301
method to check its apparent results against those afforded by pure
chance. In the experimental series the number of F-resemblances
(cf. J. W. Dunne, An Experiment with Time, 3rd Edition, p. 256) within
the scheduled time interval of ninety days totalled 62 in 1444 recorded
dream situations. It has been found impossible, not only to show
degrees of resemblance graphically, but even to discern between '
good
'
and '
moderate '
cases objectively. I spent several months in trying to
obtain estimates of the probability factors for every combining element,
but the obstacles proved insurmountable, and I have made no reference
to these fruitless attempts in my report.
A control series during which I have kept every resemblance carefully
outside the time limit has yielded far better results in determining
chance influences. Working with my original fourteen hundred or so
dream records, and comparing them with real incidents occurring
within a go days interval postponed until three years later, I found in
the first place that the total number of F-resemblances (of which not a
single one now could have a right to be called a Dunne effect) was
considerably less.
During the control series F-resemblances totalled 17, thus comparing
most unfavourably with the 62 contained in the experimental one.
Secondly, the difference in character of both kinds of phenomena
was sufficiently demonstrated by having the Dunne effect cases con-
trolled in this way by a standard series, in which pure chance only can
be held responsible for resemblances.
Mr Kruisinga enclosed two histographs showing the frequency of
'
resemblances '
plotted against the time interval between the recording
of the dream and the occurrence of the '
resemblance '. In the diagram
illustrating pure chance there was a more or less uniform incidence in the
chance resemblances, which were spread out in a straggling line along the
axis. In the diagram of the results of pure chance plus Dunne effect, there
was a great piling up of resemblances over the short period immediately
following the dream.
The Research Officer replied thanking Mr Kruisinga for drawing
attention to the serious omission from his paper of any mention of the
Dutch experiments in precognitive dreams. He pointed out that there
was what seemed to him an insuperable difliculty in the assessm.ent of
dream records, in so far as they purport to foretell the dreamer's own
future experiences, namely, that only he is in a position to note the
correspondences. The consequence is that it impossible for the
dreamer to avoid knowing when he is scoring '
control ' dreams, and such
knowledge may influence his scoring.
Recent experiments in the scoring of mediumistic utterances have
shown how difficult it is, when the scorer knows which are '
controls
'
and which are actual items, to secure an impartial annotation free from
subjective bias.
In reply Mr Kruisinga wrote as follows :
I too have alluded in my publications to the difficulty you mentioned
in your letter, viz. the subjective factor in assessing the '
control '
and
'
experimental '
correspondences. However, I have always regarded
302 Jouinal of The Society for Psychical Research oct.-nov. i 948
the sifting of my material for correspondences as a kind of sport, and
—
according to my own conviction—have never made any differences
between hunting for chance correspondences in the control series and
picking (hypothetically) paranormal ones from the experimental records.
In other words, I remember having always been as enthusiastic over a
good chance congruency as over a plausible '
Q.E.D.' effect. I have
tried to illustrate my attitude towards precognitive dreams by saying
that there are no better gamekeepers than ex-poachers. Having felt like
a poacher during the experiment, I felt a certain satisfaction in acting
as a gamekeeper while controlling my former unorthodox results. I
fully agree with you that I may be all wrong in my imagination, as of
course my conviction of having weighed results impartially also comes
under the heading '
subjective '. But letting that pass, I was rather
pleased indeed to have found a method at least partly useful in checking
the otherwise much flattered results of an entirely uncontrolled dream
experiment.
I may state—but of course you can only take my word for it—that I
took up the experiment in a very sceptical state of mind, and even now
I am vaguely unconvinced. If the quantitative method, however, is
going to yield irrefutable proof of precognition, the Dutch dream
experiment may be of some value as independent and corroborative
evidence.
You were quite right in writing there is no way out of the difficulty,
and so in dream experiments we shall have to take it into the bargain.
Mr G. F. Dalton, a member of the Society, has since reported the results
of another attempted repetition of the Dunne experiment. The conditions
were informal, the experiments being intended as an exploratory or pilot
operation which other investigators could follow up with more rigorous
methods. The results were very sim.ilar to those obtained by Mr Kruisinga.
The dream records were re-read every day for forty days following the
dream, and all resemblances to actual events were noted. Mr Dalton
found that most of the resemblances occurred in the first three days, the
frequency thereafter dropping steeply to a more or less constant chance
level.
EDITOR'S NOTES
These Notes, which are a new feature of the Journal, are mainly intended
to provide a channel through which members may be informed of matters
which would not otherwise find a place in its columns. They will include
such items as short accounts of cases which, though of interest, are not
suitable for reporting in full ;
points from letters ; news of the activities
of other societies concerned with psychical research ; accounts of research
work in progress ; and comments on published reports and matters of
general interest which may be helpful to new and less experienced
members. Above all, it is hoped that they may in some measure serve to
bring members into closer relation with each other and with the officers
of the Society.
OCT.-Nov. 1948 Editor's Notes
1. iMuv. ly^o t^aiior s r^otes
^03
It must be emphasised that opinions expressed in these Notes are not
be taken as those of the Council, but are the responsibiHty of the Editor
to
alone.
A frequent subject of discussion to-day is the apparent decrease in the
number of cases which give grounds for assuming a paranormal cause.
Some people are of the opinion that the decrease is more apparent than
real, and that experiences of a psychic nature are no less com.mon to-day
than m the early days of the Society. It is held that the increasingly wide
acceptance of psychical phenomena in general has led those experiencing
them to assume that they are of smaller interest, with the result that they
are less often reported. A different view is that many claims cannot now
stand up to sharpened criticism and the improved technique of investiga-
tion. This is to some extent true of certain spontaneous experiences. The
development of psychiatry and the patient work of psychical researchers
have shown that cases having outwardly all the features associated with a
genumely paranormal occurrence are often due to psychological, as
distinct from psychic, causes. Cases which frequently come into 'this
categoi-y are those having the characteristics of poltergeist activity ; and
'
hauntmgs ', often of a persistent nature, centering in the early stages
round a single individual. The case reported by Dr West in this issue is a
good example of the '
psychological haunt '.
As one often finds in a case
of this type, the occurrences centred round a person '
subject to dissocia-
tion, who can gain some relief from inner conflict by means of an hysterical
projection of ghostly visions '
; and the case involved two other people
sufficiently suggestible to give currency, in all good faith, to supposed
paranormal happenings.
The Society receives reports of a considerable number of cases of this
kind, and they are often of great interest, not only from a psychological
point of view, but also because they illustrate how easily they could, on a
superficial examination, be mistaken for genuinely paranormal cases' To
those members who would like to see them reported more frequently, it
should be said that such cases often involve information of so intimate a
nature that those concerned are not prepared to allow publication of the
full facts essential to their understanding.
It is one of the achievements of psychical research to have rendered
this type of case more easily identifiable, and so to have narrowed the field
for a closer study of the residuum of paranormal phenomena.
# * #
The B.B.C. continues to include in its programmes features dealing with
what IS commonly described as '
the supernatural '.
Some two years ago
there was the series of broadcasts on haunted houses under the title of
'
Do You Believe in Ghosts.? ', and later an '
outside '
broadcast from the
site of Borley Rectory—an affair which, incidentally, let loose on the
inhabitants of the one remaining building so many sightseers that they
began to regret their choice of habitation. More recently, and of greater
interest to those concerned with psychical research, were Dr Dingwall's
talk on '
Eminent Victorians and the Spirit World '
in the series '
Ideas
and Beliefs of the Victorians '
; a survey of the history and applications
304 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research OCT.-NOV. 1948
of hypnotism ; and an examination by Stuart Hampshire of the philo-
sophical implications of Dr J. B. Rhine's latest work, The Reach of the
Mind.
Broadcasts describing experiences of a supposed psychic nature have
lately been given by Algernon Blackwood (' Oddities ') and by Charles
Grosse (' African Haunts '). The latter gave an account of two striking
experiences which happened to him in Southern Rhodesia when he was in
the British South African Police. The first story told by Mr Grosse (who
has kindly shown his script to the Research Officer) described how he was
the target for a shower of stones, averaging in size that of a coconut,
coming from a direction where, according to his observation, there was
no human being and where no one could have been concealed. Unfor-
tunately, there was no witness of this occurrence (except an aged African
witch-doctor standing close to Mr Grosse while the stones were being
thrown) and (a point which was not mentioned in the broadcast) the event
was not set down in detail until nearly thirty years after its occurrence.
Mr Grosse's second story, which also involved activities of a poltergeist
nature, mentions at least two witnesses, and efforts are being made to
communicate with them.
# * *
'
When the performance of a stage '
mind-reader '
using conjuring methods
to produce his effects is presented to the public as though it were a genuine
example of telepathy, a disservice is done to psychical research, even though
the performer himself may make no specific claim to psychic powers. A
large proportion of those who heard the brilliant '
mind-reading '
per-
formance of Mr Maurice Fogel broadcast by the B.B.C. at 10.15 P-iri- on
December 6th, and who read the impressive account in the News Clironicle
of December 8th of the '
test '
carried out in that newspaper's offices,
cannot fail to have concluded, from the manner in which these performances
were described, that those present were convinced that genuine psychic
powers were involved. It is food for thought that many of the millions who
heard or read these descriptions must have received the impression that
telepathic faculties exist in a very advanced state and can be brought into
play at will.
Several members of the Society have expressed concern about the manner
in which these performances were presented. They may be interested to
know that Mr Fogel made the following statement to the Editor of this
Journal on December nth :
'
I do not lay claim to supernormal powers, nor do I wish to be called a
- " telepathist ". I have my own method of" reading people's thoughts " '.
^ ^
In a private Society whose financial resources are limited and whose raw
material, the individual gifted with psychic powers, appears to be so rare,
much depends on the efforts of the members themselves. Though the
membership is larger than it has been for many years, and is still increasing,
there is little news of experimental work carried out by individual members.
Few of us to-day have sufficient leisure to devote to lengthy and exacting re-
search projects, but there is a way in which members can be of great
OCT.-NOV. 1948 Editor s Notes 305
service : namely, by helping to locate promising subjects. They can do
this, as Mr Denys Parsons and Dr West suggested in their recent lectures,
visiting by mediums and fortune-tellers, however obscure, by carrying out
simple E.S.P. experiments,^ and by putting the Society's officers in touch
with anyone who they have grounds for believing has faculties deserving
investigation. Those who have the necessary equipment and technical
knowledge would then be able to concentrate on the in\estigation of
subjects who have already shown signs of special ability.
CORRESPONDENCE
The Psi Processes
Sir, —In his criticism (June-July Journal) of our Shin paper, Mr Basil
Smith says that the known facts of physiology make the hypothesis of the
separateness of mind and body untenable, that the fact of destruction of
mind through brain injury indicates that mind and brain are identical,
and that the idea of Shin control of growth has been disproved for ever by
Dr Needham's Biochemistry and Morphogenesis which proves that growth
is the work of hormones.
He is, of course, expressing the orthodox physiological view based on
facts other than those considered by psychical research. '
We know' that
view and we know the facts on which it is based. Our contention was
simply that psychical research reveals other facts w^hich require a modifica-
tion of the orthodox view.
Mr Smith is mistaken in thinking that we assert the separateness of
mind and body, which is certainly a view incompatible with the facts he
mentions and with a good many other more familiar facts, but neither the
facts he mentions nor any other facts prove his contention that mind and
body are identical. If the physical brain is the instrument of an im-
material Shin, then the activity of Shin in the material world must be im-
paired by injury to the physical brain. We cannot discover whether the
source of music is a violin or a musical box merely by noting that progres-
sive destruction of the mechanism causes progressive interference with the
music. Loss of mental efficiency through destraction of brain tissue is to
be expected either on the hypothesis that the brain is an instrument or
that it is an automatism, so evidence of such loss cannot decide which of
these alternative hypotheses is true.
Similarly, experimental work on the part played by chemical organisers
in promoting growth does not disprove the hypothesis of an entelechy or
Shin control of growth. The most that any biochemist would claim is that
he knows no facts which necessitate such a hypothesis. It cannot be
disproved '
for ever ', because new facts may always be found which do
'^All the equipment required for simple card-guessing experiments may be ob-
tained from the Society. Zener cards can be supplied at 3s. 6d. for packets of 50
and printed forms for recording guesses at is. 6d. for 50. Advice on how to carry
out experiments and to assess the results is given in Dr Seal's pamphlet Card-
Guessing: Advice and Instructions to Experimenters, which can be bought for is. 6d.
from the Secretary.
3o6 Journal of The Societyfor Psychical Research oct.-nov. 1943
not fit into the orthodox biochemical system of explanation. We suggest
that certain facts of psychical research do demand such a hypothesis. This
cannot be disproved by any work by a biochemist which does not take
account of these facts.
Incidentally, by no means all biologists accept the view that the dis-
covery of organisers and other factors directing development has rendered
unnecessary the '
vitalistic '
hypothesis. Organisers (i.e. substances or
factors determining development), like other demonstrable physical factors,
may belong to the mechanism by which entelechy acts. But it is outside
the scope of this journal to extend the argument to the biological field,
though it might be mentioned, for the sake of accuracy, that we are not, as
Mr Smith seems to suppose, both psychologists ; we are a psychologist
and a biologist.
. - . Yours etc.,
R. H. Thouless
'
- _
'
B. P. WiESNER
The Investigation of Spontaneous Cases
Sir,—May I have space for a few remarks on Dr West's paper on '
The
Investigation of Spontaneous Cases '
[Proceedings, Vol. XLVIII, Pt. 175)?
I realise fully the desirability of '
Podmorean '
criticism from time to time,
as a wholesome check on over-enthusiasm ; at the same time I feel very
strongly that carping criticism often does more harm than good, and it
seems to me that his paper is a case in point.
From my own experience I know that reports of events may often be
incomplete, especially if made by those untrained in making such reports,
and yet the events themselves be perfectly valid. If someone sees a
'
ghost ', this event is liable to make a deep impression upon him, especi-
ally if it is subsequently found to correspond with some event, such as the
death of the person so indicated. The mere fact that it was not entered
in a diary, or written-up at the time, by the percipient, surely does not
prove its uselessness, far less its non-existence. From the point of view
of the psychical researcher, this is unfortunate, but most likely to happen.
Few people will write down their experiences, even when asked to do so!
It is not as though some complicated series of events were involved, such
as the description of a slate-writing performance, where I admit immediate
notes are essential, and even then liable to be faulty! But in apparitional
cases, for example, a simple human observation is all that is required, and
even if the date is wrongly given (so long as the coincidence is proved) what
of it? It no more invalidates the case than it would if an observer noted a
shower of meteors, but could not remember whether this occurred on the
27th or 28th of the month. The fact is that the shower occurred, and the
mere fact that it was not written down at the time would not prove that
the observation was not made. It was ; so why should we reject his
testimony because no note of it was made at the time?
I write as I do because I have had an example of this sort of thing in my
own experience. Mr Podmore, in his book The Newer Spiritualism,
devoted a chapter to a criticism of our Naples Report on Eusapia Palladino.
He attempted to pick flaws in this, and indicate loopholes whereby fraud
OCT.-NOV. 1948 Correspondence
could have been rendered possible. Thus, on certain occasions (though
rarely) the position of one hand or one foot was not given in the steno-
graphic account ;
hence, he concludes, it was free, and further, that it
undoubtedly produced the phenomenon in question. As a matter of fact,
we who were present know that it was 7iot free ; we merely neglected to
dictate to the stenographer its exact position at that particular moment,
in the hectic msh of events. (And this by experienced investigators like
Feilding, Baggally and myself.) Had the cn'iic been there, he would have
seen that the control was perfect at the time, though not so indicated in the
Report. Many of the criticisms made and theories advanced by the arm-
chair critic would have seemed utterly ridiculous to him, had he been
there at the time, and actually witnessed what was going on. Loopholes
in a dictated account do not necessarily prove that such loopholes actually
existed ; the human error was not in the observation, but in the dictated
account, which was not one hundred per cent perfect—as of course it
should have been.
If this applies to a case such as above, it surely applies to the far simpler
cases of coincidental apparitions, which were not noted in writing at the
time, but which may have occurred precisely as subsequently stated, and
which, as I have said, doubtless made a deep and never-to-be-forgotten
impression upon the percipient at the time. The arbitrary rejection of
such cases on that ground would seem to me to be totally unwarranted.
What percentage of legal testimony would be acceptable were such
Utopian standards maintained?
Yours etc.,
. Hereward C.-^rrington
Sir,—Thank you for showing me Dr Carrington's letter. I did not
intend my paper to imply that all spontaneous cases which fail to reach a
high evidential standard are either useless or spurious. As soon as one is
satisfied that there are any instances in which normal explanations are
impossible, it becomes a safe guess that some of the unsubstantiated cases
are also paranormal. All the same, a certain case is always better than a
doubtful one.
I cannot agree with Dr Carrington that apparitional experiences are such
simple events that contemporary notes are unnecessary. The relevant
circumstances are often complex, and in^•estigation shows that memory is
not a safe guide on these matters.
The analogy between accounts of spontaneous cases and reports of
trained observers at a seance is not ver}- close. In the example of Eusapia
Palladino, I sympathise vvith Dr Carrington's exasperation at arm-chair
criticism, but I also sympathise with the exasperation of the critic who has
to deal with an incomplete account without the opportunity of personal
observations. It should be our aim to produce records which are com-
pletely convincing to readers who have not experienced the phenomena in
question.
The target set in my paper scarcely exceeded the standard of legal
evidence required to convict a murderer. It mav have been arbitrary and
Utopian, but it is not, I hope, impractical. Uncorroborated and weakly
3o8 Joiinial of The Societyfor Psychical Research OCT.-NOV. 1948
evidenced cases are legion. If progress is to be made and critics silenced,
all the energies of psychical researchers should be directed to obtaining
cases so completely backed up that they cannot reasonably be rejected.
Yours etc.,
_ '
D. J. West
Forecasts and Precognition
Sir, —Mr Drayton Thomas's interesting article '
Forecasts and Pre-
cognition '
in the July, 1948 issue of Proceedings merits further discussion.
I have only space to deal with two cases.
Since Mr Thomas has treated his cases in a qualitative manner, as
opposed to the statistical and objective methods that are now available, I
shall discuss most of this material in a qualitative way.
Liverpool Street Station .
'
There seem to be three coincidences :
(1) Closely associated with Elsie.
(2) You walk down a little hill, not a steep place.
(3) The word '
Avenue '
written up '
or is she only thinking
" Avenue
"
(1) is highly subjective. It seems to me curious, however, if Liverpool
Street is so closely associated with her, that Mr Thomas should only
realise the application as he entered the station.
(2) There is certainly a little hill at Liverpool Street (and at many other
places), and one does walk down it to enter the station, but personally I
should have said that, as London hills go, it is rather a steep place.
(3) Mr Thomas found two avenues within 200 yards of Liverpool
Street. Is this exceptional, or would it be expected by chance alone? I am
indebted to my brother, B. J. Western, for performing an experiment on
this point. A circle, just enclosing parts of the two Avenues named, was
drawn on the '
Lightning '
map of London about Liverpool Street. It also
enclosed parts of 70 other streets (none of them avenues)—i.e. one in
thirty-six or 2.78% of the streets around Liverpool Street are avenues. By
random sampling in the index of the map it was found that the proportion
of avenues in London as a whole was 5.01% or one in twenty with a
standard deviation of .59%. In the seventy-two streets enclosed by the
circle about Liverpool Street there were only the two avenues which '
to
my surprise '
Mr Thomas found. He comments '
The introduction of the
word " Avenue " would seem to have been in the nature of a clue, or an
additional description, by which I might be certain that I had discovered
the place to which the forecast referred '. His surprise and certainty
appear somewhat unjustified, since it is to be expected, on chance alone,
that there would be some 3.6 avenues as close as this.
I do not know what the train service was like in 1935, but at present the
Cambridge trains from Liverpool Street are generally faster and more
frequent than those from King's Cross ;
Major Mowbray would not need
much '
influencing '
by the communicator to choose Liverpool Street.
OCT.-NOV. 1948 Correspondence 309
The Annunciation Picture
It is unfortunate that only '
the substance '
of the medium's statements
are quoted.
There are five apparently significant features :
(1) Blankness of mind and the urge to loolc.
(2) Position with regard to me.
(3) Get the message from the picture. .
• .
(4) Background : Foreground.
(5) The hly.
(1) is purely subjective and it would be ver^- easy to have a false m.emory
of it after the event.
(2) is vague and ambiguous.
(3) The most obvious message to draw is the one the Angel came to give
to Mary, viz. :
'
Behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth
a son '. But if it be necessary to hunt for less obvious messages in what
the Angel said, here are a few more :
(a) '
Blessed art thou among women '.
(b) '
(the son) shall be great, shall reign for ever and shall be called the
Son of God '.
(c) '
Thy cousin Elizabeth hath also conceived in her old age '.
Among so many, the vague message of being highly favoured does not
seem particularly significant.
(2), (3), (4) and (5) are dependent. '
Position with regard to me '
and
'
Get the message from the picture '
apply to all Annunciation pictures,
and I believe it is true that most Annunciation pictures («) show an
Annunciation Lily and {b) have the division into background and fore-
ground of the typical Italian painters.
If this is so, the prediction boils down to the statement that Mr Thomas
would shortly see an Annunciation picture. As Mr Thomas is a clergyman,
this does not seem very unlikely.
There are also certain general points, among which may be mentioned :
(1) In none of Mr Thomas's cases are we given a corroborative statement.
(2) Many of the forecasts are sufficiently vague for there to be many
ways in which they might be fulfilled which detracts from their significance.
(3) It is difficult to say exactly how much information the medium
might not know about Mr Thomas by this time.
(4) We do not know from how large a body of unsuccessful material the
above cases are selected.
In connection with the last two points, the earliest of these Leonard
sittings that Mr Thomas deals with was in Febnaary 19 17.
These considerations. Sir, lead to the conclusion that Mr Thomas's
article is not up to the standard which this Society is entitled to expect for
its publications.
Yours etc.,
.
- - A. M. Western
3 1 o Journal of The Society for Psychical Research OCT.-NOV. 1 948
Medical Section of A. S. P. R.
Sir, —A group of physician members of the American Society for
Psychical Researcli has organized a Medical Section to investigate the
psychiatric and psychoanalytic aspects of telepathy and related phenomena.
Recent publications in the various psychiatric journals bear witness to
the growing importance of this subject to all those engaged in personality
studies as well as in psychotherapy.
Further information as to the aims and purposes of this Section, and its
programme, can be obtained from the undersigned.
Yours etc.,
;
L. A. Dale (Mrs)
_ ]
'
Executive Secretary, Medical Section,
,
American Society for Psychical Re-
•
search. Inc., Suite lA, 880 Fifth
;
.
- - Avenue, New York 21, N.Y., U.S.A.
Dowsing
Sir,—As a member of the Society with a life-long experience of dowsing,
I feel that my opinion on the experiments reported in the May 1948 issue
of the Journal may be of use. As you were unable to publish my longer
letter owing to lack of space, I should be very glad to send a copy to any
members interested, if they will write to me at 22 Beaufort Street, Chelsea,
London, S.W. 3.
. Yours etc.,
Margaret E. Hone
The Fox Sisters : A Correction
Sir,—In the article on the Fox Sisters in the September issue of the
Journal, there was an error which was not noticed until too late for correc-
tion. A sentence near the end of the first paragraph on page 282 ought to
have read :
'
Within a month Kate had recanted, and Margaret followed
suit a year later.' As the passage stood it might have been supposed that
Leah had retracted a confession, which in fact she never made at any time.
I regret the error.
i - -
Yours etc.,
•
.
J. Fraser Nicol
-
'
REVIEWS
The Myth of the Magus. By E. M. Butler. (Cambridge University
Press. 1948. xi, 282 pp. Illustrated. 21s.)
Though she disclaims the authority of a historian, Professor Butler's
study is essentially historical. Starting to investigate the Faust legend,
she was led to the wider study of the Magician, as presented by legend and
history. She finds in the story of each prominent Magus a pattern, certain
basic correspondences with the rest. This pattern consists of ten features,
not all of them present in each instance, but constant enough to be listed as
insignia ; and no magician of stature fails to score several of them. They
are, as she gives them : supernatural or mysterious origin ;
portents at
birth ;
perils menacing infancy ; an initiation ;
wanderings in distant
OCT.-Nov. 1948 Reviews 311
lands ;
a magical contest ; a trial or persecution ; a last scene, whether of
leavetaking, prophecy, or repentance ; a violent or mysterious death and
a resurrection, with sometimes an ascension as well.
All the features are present in the life of Jesus, whom Professor Butler
treats with the sam.e detachment as she gives to her other subjects They
inform the legend of Zoroaster, are repeated all but exactly in the story of
Apollonius of Tyana, and colour the lives of other ancient magicians
including Pythagoras, and even Moses, to whose story one or t^vo missing
features were later tacked on. The advent of Christianity introduced a
new moral element, a sharp distinction between white and black magic
under which Simxon Magus was the first to fall: and presently the
Christian church expressly condemned all magic not practised in its name
and by its accredited representatives.
This attitude drove the mediaeval magi into direct opposition, and pacts
with the devil became a necessary qualification for the job. Of Dr Faust,
who, if not the prototype, became the chief representative of this type of
magician, Professor Butler finds little good to say. The man himse'f
appears to have been a petty and disreputable conjuror ; and she puts hirn
fonvard as the classic instance of legend devouring and superseding fart
i-or the rest, Jeanne d'Arc is treated side by side with Gilles de Rais and
Roger Bacon, considered after Faust on the ground that although he lived
m the thirteenth century-, his fame did not flower until the sixteenth
Dr John Dee shares a chapter with Edward Kelley, the medium who did
his skrymg '
for him, followed by the Com.te de St. Germain, who has a
long and admirable chapter to himself, and Cagliostro. More recent
times are represented by Madame Blavatsky and Rasputin.
It is always easy to demand of a book that it be somethiuP it is not
and Professor Butler's modest disclaimers on p. 10 make one feefpositivelv
unchivalrous to complain.
' In this slight and superficial contribution to the history of ideas, I have
kept as far as possible on the legendary level, reproducing widespread
conceptions and beliefs rather than historical data.'
As a result, it is difficult to see where her own beliefs lie. Ever\'thing
however preposterous, that has been alleged and believed about a mapic-'ai^
is set down with the same detachment as the historical data which Pro-
fessor Butler has tended to avoid. True, she often shows that she does
not believe a claim : but we could be pardoned for concluding that she
believed none of the material, and lumped all the magicians together as
chanatans, more or less inspired. To some she grants in their heyday the
possession of mana, inspiration, energy, power over the minds of those
about them. For Cagliostro she suggests the explanation of a dual
personality, of which the shadow side was '
the blackguard Giuseppe
Balsamo . She does not attempt to decide the proportion of fraud in the
life Ox Madame Blavatsky, who must have needed an exceptional degree of
mana to make the impression she did upon a number of intelligent and
some exceptional men. Of Rasputin she gives us little but a bowdlerised
account of his death. She draws no clear line between the conjuring tricks
of the various magi and their attested or alleged supernorm^al feats.
Once again, it is a vice of reviewing to complain that an author lias not
done what he never claimed to do. But for readers of this journal the
313 Journal of Tlie Societyfor Psychical Research oct.-nov. 1948
main interest in a book about magicians must always be its investigation of
the phenomena they are said to produce. V/hat are magical powers, and
what do they mean? If we see a piece of matter move in apparent defiance
of the laws of gravity, or a cut closed and healed in a few minutes, what are
we seeing? Nothing '
unnatural ', certainly : but what? What law, what
secret of the universe is in operation before our ej^es?
Professor Butler is on sure ground when she says that the magician
almost always falls through trying to translate inspiration from the realm
of imagination to the realm of matter. So translated, it becomes capricious
and often destructive. In fact, she lets fall so m.any hints that we are eager
for her to turn her cool, clear, sceptical mind to the problems which most
interest us. As it is, she has done an entirely admirable piece of spade-
work, for which many of her successors will bless her. It is seldom
recognised how essential are books of this kind, which bring together and
relate whole masses of knowledge and give them fresh relevance, fresh
meaning. The book is charmingly written, and in places, particularly in
the study of Madame Blavatsky, shows a most human un-historical
compassion.
L. A. G. S.
Hypnotism Today. By L. M. Lecron and J. Bordeaux. (London :
Heinemann. 1947. ix, 278 pp. 25s.)
The first part of this book deals briefly with the early work on hypnosis
This is follov/ed by a detailed chapter describing the many and varied
methods of inducing hypnosis. Unlike many books on the subject, which
dismiss the methods of induction in a few paragraphs, the authors of this
little book must be congratulated on the way they have set out this chapter,
which not only puts before the reader a very clear description of how to
hypnotise but also records some interesting observations which, if not
taken into account, may be responsible for the failures met with in some
subjects.
Successive chapters deal with hypnotic and post-hypnotic phenomena
and how to produce them. Then follows an interesting section entitled
'
Hypnotism and the Psychic Sciences '
and this dispells the very common
but erroneous belief that hypnotism is allied to the occult. Mention is
made of a trance medium who was given pentothal (a barbiturate drug) in
order to induce narcosis and on many later occasions this same subject
was hypnotised by one of the usual methods. When asked to compare
these two conditions, narcosis and hypnosis, he said he found it difficult
to think clearly under the pentothal but that the hypnosis and mediumistic
trance were identical in every respect. Another medium made the same
statement, but added that in his opinion the trance state was not auto-
hypnosis but a hypnotic state produced by his guides.
The second part of the book deals with Hypnotherapy and describes
how hypnosis can be used with effect in many psychological complaints.
The authors also explain, in detail, the make-up of many 'nervous' dis-
orders and do not hesitate to admit that hypnotism is not used as a cure
but only as an aid in certain selected cases to reveal facts long since
repressed and by so doing, effect an abreaction which will lead to the cure
of the condition.
OCT.-NOV. 1948 Reviews 313
The dangers of inexperienced persons using hypnotherapy as opposed to
hypnosis is emphasised.
I. F.
Dimensions of Personality. By H. J. Eysenck, Ph.D. (London :
Kegan Paul. 1947. xi, 308 pp. 25s.)
This is an important work on the nature of personahty differences as
revealed by the technique of multiple factor analysis. It has become clear
in recent years that the popular names for character traits form a very-
unsatisfactory basis for scientific description. Multiple factor analysis
offers a method by means of which one can construct a self-consistent
scheme of personality measurement. From a group of male neurotic
soldiers, it appeared that two main directions of variation could be
measured, labelled respectively '
neuroticism '
and '
extraversion-intro-
version '. Tests were selected which were found to be discriminatory of
these traits while other tests failed to measure them. The factor of
'
suggestibility '
appeared to be analysable into three factors which Dr
. Eysenck calls '
primary suggestibility ', '
secondary suggestibility '
and
'
prestige suggestibility '. Those who wish to apply personality tests to
the task of distinguishing those who are Kkely to succeed in parapsycho-
logical tests would do well to take into account the work on personality
measurement that has been done by Dr Eysenck and others. They will
not find Dr Eysenck's book particularly easy reading if they are not
familiar with the methods of factor analysis.
R. H. T.
Books Received
Encyclopaedia of Superstitions. By E. and M. A. Radford. (London :
Rider. 1948. ix, 269 pp. i6s.)
A useful reference book containing notes on some 2,300 superstitions,
arranged so that any individual superstition or group of superstitions
related to one particular subject can be found under a specified heading.
Philip in Tw^o Worlds. By Alice Gilbert. Foreword by L. A. G.
Strong. (London : Andrew Dakers. 1948. 242 pp. 8s. 6d.)
In this book, an account of communications believed by the authoress
to have reached her from her dead son is preceded by letters from him
written to her during his lifetime. In his foreword Mr Strong remarks
that the value of the book, which for him '
nowhere approaches the level
of scientific proof [of survival] —though I believe a good deal of it—is that
it helps to create a state of mind in which this most important question of
survival can be seriously considered '.
Exploring the Psychic World. By John Butler. (London : Oak Tree
Books. 1947. 190 pp. ICS. 6d.)
Mary Baker Eddy : Her Communications from Beyond the Grave to
Harold Horwood and Ursula Roberts. (London : Psychic Press.
1948. loi pp. 6s.)
Philosophy of White Ray. Through the Trance Mediumship of Paulette
Austen. (London : Psychic Press. [1948]. 171 pp. 7s. 6d.)
314 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research oct.-nov. 1948
-
, NOTICES TO MEMBERS
Film Show
An apology and explanation is due to members who attended the film show
on October 5th, at which a three-reel film on magnetic healing, made in
Holland, was shown, together with a two-reel comedy unrelated to
psychical research. It had been hoped that another Dutch film dealing
with the mystic Mirin Dajo would be available, but unfortunately it could
not be passed through the Customs in time. It is also regretted that no
information was available about the circumstances surrounding the
making of the film on magnetic healing.
Denys Parsons
Joint Hofi. Sec.
.
'
Index to Volume XXXIV of the Journal
An index to Volume XXXIV (1947-8) of the Journal is being prepared
and will, it is hoped, be circulated in the first issue published in 1949. An
announcement about binding cases for this volume will be m^ade later.
OBITUARY : MRS ALICE MACDONALD FLEMING
We regret to record the death, in October last, of Mrs Alice Macdonald
Fleming, the '
Mrs Holland '
whose automatic writing is frequently quoted
and discussed in our Proceedings, especially in Miss Alice Johnson's two
Reports {Proc, XXI and XXIV). She was the daughter of Lockwood
Kipling.
She was active in the production of scripts between the years 1903 and
1910. At that time she was unwilling to allow her real name to be used in
connection with her automatic writing, but several years before her death
she informed the Society that she no longer saw any objection to this.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 439th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Monday, 26 July 1948, at 3.30 p.m., the President,
Mr W. H. Salter, in the chair. The Minutes of the last Meeting of the
Council were read and signed as correct. Twenty-seven new Members
were elected. Their names and addresses are given below.
The 440th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square, •
London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 22 September 1948, at 2.30 p.m., the
President, Mr W. H. Salter, in the Chair. The Minutes of the last
Meeting of the Council were read and signed as correct.
Mrs Heywood was appointed an elected member of Council to fill the
vacancy caused by the death of the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton.
The resignation from the Council of Brigadier Firebrace, a co-opted
member, was reported.
Eighteen new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given below.
OCT.-NOV. 1948 New Members 315
MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
The 200th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Society's Rooms
on Wednesday, 3 November 1948, at 6 p.m., when a lecture entitled
'
The Physiology and Psychology of Trance '
was given by Dr William
Brown, M.D.
NEW MEMBERS
[Elected 26 July 1948)
Buck, Dr Alice E., 46 Queen Anne Street, London, W. i.
Cape, Miss S. L., San Remo Hotel, Torquay, Devon.
DiCKENSEN, W. N., M.A., M.B., Pembroke College, Oxford.
Elwin, Rev. W. H., c/o D. S. Dickson, Esq., 137 St Vincent Street,
Glasgow, 2.
FoRWALD, Haakon E., Grottvagen 37, Ludvika, Sweden.
Fraelich, R. O., 173 Pennwood Avenue, Pittsburgh 18, Penna., U.S.A.
Fredericks, Mrs, 23 Hillcrest Road, Hythe, Kent.
Garrett, Mrs Eileen J., 220 Madison Avenue, New York, 16, U.S.A.
Hick, J. H., M.A., Athol House, Fulford Road, Scarborough, Yorks.
Hough, J. D. S., 134 Lexham Gardens, London, W. 8.
Howe, Mrs Ellic, 5 Thurloe Close, Alexander Place, London, S.W. 7.
Howes, Neville, 88 Hollyfield Road, Sutton Coldfield, Warwickshire.
Isaacs, Leon, 9 Green Lane, Brent Street, Hendon, London, N.W. 4.
Jacosi, H. F. E., 1 1 Sutherland Avenue, London, W. 9.
Johnson, R. C, M.A., D.Sc, Queen's College, Melbourne, N. 3,
Australia.
Kersley, Rev. E. H., 29 Churchill Way, Peverell, Plymouth.
Librarian, Hampstead Public Libraries, Finchley Road, London, N.W. 3.
Loewy, F. E., M.R.C.P., 7 Wellington Court, London, N.W. 8.
MacNaghten, Mrs A., Hadleigh House, Windsor, Berks.
Meeker, Mrs, 17 Eton Villas, London, N.W. 3.
Nicholson, Mrs C. S., M.B., 8 Ashburn Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Pryor, Mrs E. P., M.B.E., B.E.M., Lannock Manor, Hitchin, Herts.
Roberts, Mrs D. O., 58 Whitehouse Avenue, Boreham Wood, Herts.
Roberts, E., Ranfurly, Serpentine South, Blundellsands, Liverpool 23.
Stokes, Mrs, 157 Nottingham Road, Mansfield, Notts.
Thompson, Mrs A. R., 74 Carlisle Mansions, Carlisle Place, London,
S.W. I.
Yeo, John, 12 Fulbrooks Avenue, Worcester Park, Surrey.
[Elected 22 September 1948)
Alexander, R. G., 237 The Vale, Golders Green, London, N.W. 11.
Buser, Mrs J., Forest Farm, Londiani, Kenya, B.E. Africa.
Clark, J., M.B., Lochielbank, Barrhill, Dalbeattie.
Clark-Lowes, D. N., 6a The Schools, Shrewsbury, Salop.
Cocks, Dr T., Fulford House, Hawes, Yorks.
De Vault, R. T., 2523 St Pierre Avenue, Altadena, Calif., U.S.A.
Elsden, a. v., O.B.E., Martlets, Hurston Lane, Storrington, Pulborough.
3i6 Journal of The Society for Psychical Research OCT.-NOV. 1948
Gell, p. G. M., National Institute for Medical Research, Holly Hill,
London, N.W. 3.
Librarian, Columbia University, 535 West 114th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Mayger, a. D., c/o William Deacons Bank, Pall Mall, London, S.W. i.
MoNCRiEFF, C. M., 26 Kensington Park Gardens, London, W. 11.
Moncrieff, Captain M. M., The Cliffs, Nelson, New Zealand.
Oakshott, Major R. S., c/o British Embassy, Teheran, Iran.
Reynolds, Mrs A. M., 8 Kensington Church Walk, London, W. 8.
Shag, Mrs A., i Orchard Park, Dartington, Totnes, Devon.
Stocker, Lt-Col. C. J., M.D., Crowmire Wood, Ghyll Head, Bowness-
on-Windermere.
Terry, L. B., 12 Bloomsbury Square, London, W.C. i.
Urban, Dr Hubert J., Meinhardtstrasse 3, Innsbruck, Austria.
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
INDEX TO VOLUME XXXIV
1947 -1948
For the sake of brevity such qualifications as '
supposed ',
'
alleged ', etc., are omitted from this index. It must, however, be
understood that this omission is made solely for brevity, and does
not imply any assertion that the subject-matter of any entry is in
fact real or genuine.
Ackland, Valentine, 205-6
Agents, in Experimental Investiga-
tion by the Cambridge Psychical
Research Group, 112-3
Allen, Frank, 94, 154
American Society for Psychical Re-
search, 52, 93, 130 ;
inception of
Medical Section of, 310
Apparitions, Telepathic Explanation
of, 7
Aspinall, Sir A., 1
1
Barbados—^A New Case of Dis-
turbed Coffins in, 11-12
Bedford, Mrs, medium, 22-5
Bekker, J. H., 62, 80
Bell, Mrs G., 21
Bendit, Laurence J., letters on prize
offer to physical mediums, 226-7,
227-30 ; letters on hypnotism,
245-7
Bennett, Sir Ernest, obituary, 12
Bielstein, G., in
Bjorkhem, Dr John, 263-7
Blennerhasset, Mrs, 16, 25
Research Fund, 16, 25, 151
Book Test, A significant, 230- 1 ,
248-9
Borley Rectory, 177-82
Bosanquet, Miss Theodora, 15, 151,
198, 200, 218
Braconnier, Mrs Helga, 263-7
British Broadcasting Corporation,
87 ;
'
supernatural '
programmes,
303-4
Broad, Professor C. D., 16, 61, 87,
2i8 ;
Presidency of Cambridge
Group, III ; Perrott Studentship,
123
Brown, Mrs, 21
Caldwell, R. A., 49, 50, 51, 54
Cambridge University Psychical Re-
search Group, 1 1 1-2, 150; Ex-
perimental Investigation by, 112-
5
Cameron, Dennis B., 71 ; An Un-
successful Attempt to Locate
Water by Divination, 222-3
Carington, Whately, 16 ;
Obituary,
25 ;
Psycho-kinetic experiments
5 ; Views on Telepathy, 8, 9
Carrington, Hereward, 93 ; letter on
Investigation of Spontaneous
case, 306-7
Cases : New Case of Disturbed
Coffins in Barbados, 11-12 ; Pre-
cognitive Dream, 21-3 ; Forecasts
of Horse Races, 63-8 ; A Case of
Premonition, 69-70 ; A Case of
Apparent Retrocognition, 74-80,
95-6 ; Coincidence or Precogni-
tion ? 155-7 ; Veridical Informa-
tion Obtained, Through an Ouija
Board, 70-1 ; The Poltergeist at
Netherfield, 71-4 ;
Precognitive
Dream, 1 57-60
Cave, Charles, 12
Charloteaux, Jean, 103
Clairvoyance, Experiment in, 112
Clark, Mrs, 21
Clark, P. M., 49, 54
Coffins, Disturbed in Barbados, A
New Case of, 11 - 1
2
Coincidence or Precognition ? (case),
155-7. 182
Collins, B. Abdy, 27, 247-8
Communications received through
Miss Cummins, 32-43
Crookes, Sir William, 7
317
Index to Volume XXXIV
Cuddon, Eric, Pendulum experi-
ments, 107, 161-2, 231, 237 ;
Coincidence or Precognition ?,
155-7, 182
Cummins, Miss, some recent com-
munications received through, 32-
43, 143
Dale, Mrs L. A., 310
Dalton, G. F., 143-4
Davis, T. W., 222-3
de Beausobre, Mrs, 7
-
Dessoir, Dr Max, Obituary, 94-5
Dice-throwing experiments, 5 ; bias
of, 55-8
Dingwall, Dr E. J., 7, 59, 244-5
Divining, Some Experiments in,
220-2 ; An unsuccessful attempt
to locate water by divination, 222-
3
Dixon, Professor W. Macneile, 7
Dodds, Professor E. R., 6, 16
Dowsing, 4, 220-3, 310
Drawings, Mass Experiments in the
Psi Cognition of, 43-54
Dreams, Precognitive, 21-2, 91-2,
124-5, 157-60, 182, 300-2
Dunne experiment, precognitive
dreams and the, 300-2
Edwards, Harry, 4, 149
Eisler, Dr Robert, 259
Electromagnetic waves, 7-13
Emberg, G. A., 93
Emergence of a Pseudo-communi-
cator, 175-7
Enquiry, 240
Esarp Tragedy, 263-7
Evans, J. T., 125-9
Extra-sensory Perception, '
elation
'
during moments of, 22 ; evidence
for, 140-2 ;
experiments in, 4, iii-
2, 147-8 ; random selectors for
E.S.P. experiments, 224-5 ;
Tests : A Summary of Results,
109-11
Family Telepathy, 196-206
Films, related to Psychical Research,
262
Firebrace, Brigadier R. C, 7, 15, 31
Fleming, Mrs Alice Macdonald,
obituary, 314
Fogel, Maurice, 86-7, 304
Forecasts of Horse Races, 63-8
Fox Sisters and the Development of
Spiritualism, 271-86, 310
Gatty, Mrs Oliver, 31
Gay, Hon. Mrs C. H., 22-5, 124, 218
Giiabes, Miss E. B., 32-43, 143
Godley, Hon. John, 63-8, 124-5
Goldney, Mrs K. M., 8, 9, 59, 62,
161-2, 218, 237
Grondahl, I. C, 7
Hallucinations—Mass Observation
Questionnaire on, 187-96, 223-4
'
Haunted '
Dance Hall, 294-300
Hauntings, suggested publication of
cases of, 27 ; Recent cases of,
129-38 ;
'
Haunted '
Dance Hall,
294-300
Healing, paranormal, 4
Heywood, Mrs Frank, 31, 198, 218,
314 ; letters suggesting wider
range of cases should be accepted
ioT Journal, 25-7, 96-7, 139-43,
163-4 ;
sittings with Mrs Edith
Thomson, 175-7, 231-5
Higgins, John, 220-1
Hindson, M. T., 43, 45, 47-50, 52-3,
148
Hoffmann, B., 8
Hone, Margaret E., 310
Hope, Lord Charles, 31, 218
Horse Races, Forecasts of, 63-8, 124-
5
Howe, Dr E. Grahame, 91
Hughes, George E., 157
Hyde, D. H., 5
Hypnotism, 4, 112, 148, 226-7, 229-
30, 245-7
Indonesia, Psychic Phenomena in,
80-5
Infra-red telescope, 85
Irvine, Alexander, 11
Jephson, Miss I., 16, 218
Johnson, Miss G. M., 198, 203, 204-5
Johnson, Miss Nancy, 22
Jones, W. D., 59
Journal—letters re standard of cases
published in, 25-7, 59, 9^-7, i39-
43, 163-4 ; restricted circulation
of, 1 19-20
Kantor, MacKinlay, 130-1
Key, Mr, 131
Index to Volume XXXIV 319
Kilbum Society of Physical Pheno-
mena, 94
King's College, Newcastle, Society
for Psychical Research, 71, 150
Kruisinga, J. C. M., 300-2
Lambert, G. W., 218
Lassoe, H. de, 248
Leigh, James, 121, 175
Light, 52
Logman, Mrs, 7
Luton Ghost, 13 1-2
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs Alfredj^ 16 ;
Obituary, 290-1 .
Macgregor, Sir Evan, 1
1
Masham, F. W., 48, 50, 53, 54, 69
Mass Experiments in the Psi Cogni-
tion of Drawings, 43-54
Mass Observation Questionnaire on
Hallucinations, 149, 187-96, 223-4
Mayes, John, 4, 148
McConnell, Robert A., 242-3
Mediums, 4, 22-5, 32, 94, 124, 148,
153. 154. 175-7 ;
Conditions for
investigation of, 247-8 ; Prize
Offer to Physical Mediums, 86, 94,
IS3-4, 244-5. 226-9
Mifelew, C, 146
Moore, Sir Alan, 201
Morley College, Course on Psychical
Research, 240
Morley, Mrs Violet, 69-70 -
Mountford, Miss, 51, 53
Myers Memorial Lecture, 151
Netherfield, Poltergeist at, 71-4
New, Miss Annie, 200
Newton, Miss, 218
Nicol, J. Eraser, 59, 248-9 ; The
Fox Sisters and the Development
of Spiritualism, 271-86, 310
Nisbet, B., 177-82
North, Rex, 49, 50, 54
O. J. L. Posthumous Packet, 269-71
Ouija Board, Veridical Information
Obtained through, 70-1
Osborn, Edward, 218
Out-of-the-Body Experience, 206
Painter, J., iii
Parsons, Denys, 31, 58-9, 218 ;
Dice-throwing experiments, 5 ;
Paper on Experimental Extra-
sensory Perception, 29
Pendulums, A Note on the Re-
actions of an Audience to a Simple
Experiment with, 107-8, 160-2,
231-7
Perrott Studentship in Psychical
Research, 123, 290
Phillip, Dr Hugh, 209-10 '
-
Pollard, S. R. W., 218
Poltergeists, 11, 71-4, 137-8; at
Netherfield, 71-4 ; at an Inn, 137-8
Prediction, 52
Prediction of the Date of the End of
the War, 103-7
Price, Professor H. H., 16, 22, 61, 87,
218
Price, Harry, 177-80 ;
Obituary,
238-9
Proctor, J. D., in, 140-2, 163-4,
231-5
Pryor, Colonel and Mrs, 201
Pseudo-communicator, emergence of
an apparently, 175-7. 231-5
Psi Processes, 249-50, 305-6
Psi Cognition of Drawings, mass
experiments in the, 43-54 ^
Psychic Nezvs, 52, 267
Psychic Phenomena in Indonesia,
80-5
Psychical Research, Art of, 247 ;
Lectures at Morley College on,
240 ; Lectures on practical, 262 ;
Implications of, 87
Psycho-kinesis, 5, 112
Psychometry experiments, 4, 148,
263-7
Random Selectors for E.S.P. experi-
ments, 224-5
Rawcliffe, D. H., 103, 139, 163-4
Rayleigh, Lord, 6 ;
Obituary, 144
Retrocognition, A Case of Apparent,
74-80, 95-6, 125-9
Reviews : Allen, Percy Talks with
Elizabethans, 256 ;
Anspacher,
Louis K., Challenge of the Un-
knozvn, 100 ;
Austen, Paulette,
Philosophy of White Ray, 313 ;
Baird, A. P. (Ed.), A Casebook for
Survival, 256 ;
Bax, Clifford,
Rosemary for Remembrance, 257 ;
Brown, William, Oxford Essays on
Psychology, 253-4 >
Burton, Jean,
Heyday of a Wizard : Daniel
Home the Medium, 250-1 ;
Butler,
E. M., The Myth of the Magus,
320 Index to Volume XXXI
V
Reviews : (continued)
310-2 ;
Butler, John, Exploring
the Psychic World, 313 ; de
Jouvenel, Marcelle, An Diapason
du Ciel, 288-9 ;
Dessoir, Prof. Dr
Max, Das Ich, Der Traum, Der
Tod, 225 ;
Dingwell, E. J.,
Some Human Oddities, 27-8 ;
Ehrenwald, Jan, Telepathy and
Medical Ktwzvledge, 2 1 1 -4 ;
Eysenck, H. J., Dimensions of
Personality, -^iT, ;
Findlay, Arthur,
The Curse of Ignorance : A History
of Mankind, 286-7 ;
Gibbes,
E. B., They Survive, 117; Gilbert,
Alice, Philip in Two Worlds, 313 ;
Heywood, Rosalind and Soal,
S.G., Telepathy and Allied Pheno-
mena, 215 ;
Horwood, Harold,
and Roberts, Ursula, Mary Baker
Eddy, 313 ;
Jones, L. E., The
Bishop and the Cobbler, 287-8 ;
Journal of Parapsychology, 119,
165, 255-6, 289-90 ;
Lecron,
^. M., and Bordeaux, J., Hypno-
tism To-day, 312-3 ;
Ogdon,
J. A. H., The Kingdom of the Lost,
237-8 ;
Pond, Mariam, The Un-
zvilling Martyrs, 271-86 ; Rad-
ford, E., and M. A., Encyclopaedia
of Superstitions, 313 ; Revue
Internationale de Radiesthesie, 103 ;
Rhine, J. B., The Reach of the
Mind, 183-5 ;
Roberts, Henry C.
(Ed.), The Complete Prophecies of
Nostradamus, 165-7 ;
Thompson,
C. J. S., Magic and Healing, 100 ;
Thornton, Nathaniel, Problems in
Abnormal Behaviour, 118;
Tromp, S. W., The Religion of the
Modern Scientist (Neo-Material-
ism), 252-3 ;
Tyrrell, G. N. M.
The Personality of Man, 88, 98-
100 ;
Wydenbruck, Nora, Dr
Mesmer, 167-8
Rhine, J. B., 9, 183-5, 242-3
Rhondda, Lady, 200
Richmond, Kenneth, Memorial, 6,
239-40
Robertson, Dr A. J. B., 7-10, 15, 31,
59
Roy, William, 154
Salter, W. H., 15, 17, 61, 145, 151,
218
Salter, Mrs W. H., 6, 7, 218
Saurat, Professor D., loi
Schroedinger, E., 10
Scott, C. S. O'D., 59, III, 112, 116
Seccombe, Mrs D. M., 154
Sendall, Mrs, 5
Sharp, Allen J., 71-4, 135, 180-2,
222, 230-1, 248-9
Smith, A. D. Howell, 7
Smith, Basil, 249-50, 305-6
Sitwell, Mrs W., 7
Soal, S. G., 8, 9, 59, 61, 69, 150, 151,
163-4, 218 ; Award of Perrott
Studentship, 290 ; review of The
Reach of the Mind, 183-5, 242-3
Society for Psychical Research :
Accounts, 18-20, 170-4
Annual Reports, 4, 147
Committees, 15, 218
Consultation with Officers of the
Society, 257-8 ;
Corresponding
members, 15, 219
Council, co-optations and ap-
pointments, 14-5, 16, 31, 219,
314
Donations, 25, 122
Endowment Fund, 6
Foreign Members, 6
Honorary Associates, 15, 219
Library, 6, 119, 151 ;
Meetings : Annual General, 16,
219, Council, 3, 14, 15, 31, 62,
90, 103, 122, 147, 175, 218, 259,
314
Membership, 1-2, 6, 14, 30, 62,
90,102-3, 122, 146-7, 152, 169,
218, 259, 316
Publications, 7, 150, 152
Publicity, 5, 150
Spence, Mr J. S., 74-80, 95-6, 125-
9
Spinney, G. K., 59
Spiritualism, The Fox Sisters and
the Development of, 271-86
Spurry, Bernard, 157
Stevens, Mrs A. W. 218
Stewart, Mrs Gloria, 150
Strong, L. A. G., 247
Strutt, Admiral the Hon. A. C, 15,
218
Stuart, C. E., obituary, 9, 95
Sunday Pictorial, 49, 50, 51, 54
Tanagra, Dr, 150
Telepathic experiments, 4
Index to Volume XXXIV 321
Telepathy, 7, 25-7, 150, 163-4, 196-
206
Telepathy and Electro-Magnetic
Waves, 7-10
Thermal Phenomenon at Borlev,
180-2
Thomas, H. Ballard, 157, 182
Thouless, Dr R. H., 7, 87, 218, 293 ;
Letters re dice-throwing experi-
ments, 55-8 ; re Cuddon's pendu-
lum experiments, 160-2, 235-7 ;
Psi Processes, 305, 306 ; Random
selectors for E.S.P. Experiments,
224-5 ;
Report of Experimental
Investigation by Cambridge
Psychical Research Group, 112-
5
Tickell, Mrs Renee, 198, 201
Toksvig, Signe, 7
Traill, Miss D. E., 7
Trinity College Perrott Studentship
in Psychical Research, 123
Tyrrell, G. N. M., 6, 7, 15, 3 1, 87,
95-6, 218 ; O. J. L. Posthumous
Packet, 269
Veridical Information Given by a
Medium of Matters Outside the
Sitter's Knowledge, 22-5, 124
Veridical Information Obtained
Through an Ouija Board, 70-1
Warner, Miss Sylvia Townsend, 206
War, Prediction of Date of End of,
103-7
Water Divining, 220-3
Watson, M., 222-3
West, D. J., appointment as Re-
search Officer, 4 ;
'
The Medium-
ship of Mrs Helen Duncan ',
7 ;
'
Telepathic Explanation of Apara-
tions ',
7 ; Some Recent Experi-
ments in Psychometry, 17 ; The
Work of the Society's Research
Department, 31 ; Alass Experi-
ments in the Psi Cognition of
Drawings, 43-54 ; Recent Cases
of Plauntings, 129-38 ; E.S.P.
Tests : A Summary of Results,
109-1 1 ;
Report on Mass Observa-
tion Questionnaire on Hallucina-
tions, 187-96, 223-4 ; Some Ex-
periments in Divining, 220-3 ;
Letter re Prize Offer to Physical
Mediums and Hypnotic Experi-
ments, 227-30 ;
Investigation of a
Case of Xenoglossy, 267-9 ! The
'
Haunted '
Dance Hall, 294-300 ;
Investigation of Spontaneous
Cases, 306-7
Western, A. M., 59, 11, 116, 119-20,
308-9
Wiesner, B. P., 7, 160-2, 235-7, 305-
6
Williams, I. P., 59, 97-8
Wilson, A. J. C, 10 •
W^ilson, R., 9, 15, 31, 59
Working Group, 4
Wydenbruck, Countess Nora, 7
Xenoglossy, Investigation of a Case
of, 267-9
Young, Mrs Grace McCombie 70-1
