{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1valerie_l_nde_4043.html","mytitle":"Valerie L NDE 4043","mylang":"de"}
          	        Valerie L NDE 4043  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Valerie L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1941 Valerie L NDE 4043  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a stewardess at the time. I flew a lot and I was tired. I caught a white angina bacterium that wasn't easily cured. The streptococcus got to my heart valves causing valve damaged. I was transported in emergency to a suburb hospital. They did not see that my valve was damaged. After twelve hours, I was eventually transferred to a hospital in Paris. Upon arrival, I felt myself fade away. I don't remember anything except waking up in a room. Then I was transferred to another hospital because I was in critical condition.

This is when I had my experience. I don't know the exact date. I first saw myself as some sort of big smoke - it was me but not in my body. I tried to see my arms, my legs, nothing. I could only see myself as smoke. I turned around in some sort of concrete swimming pool, and I was not alone there. Somebody else turned around with me. I did not talk to him, I did not even try to, and we turned around clockwise. I don't know how I came back into my body. (Later I was told that I was in the intensive care unit and the person in the room next to mine was in a coma, maybe that was him. I don't know).

After that, or around the same time (I can't measure time during this period) I heard a very stressful noise next to me, it was the machine connected to my heart and I opened my eyes. The ceiling turned into a very bulgy cloud, and I climbed into it. There I felt fine but I knew there was something wrong. All of a sudden, somebody appeared in front of me. He was young with a beard. I told him, 'When do I go back down to earth?' He said, 'But you are already on earth.'

I did not believe him.  I asked the same question again, he replied the same answer and I got back down into my body.

Then, and again, much after or after or before, I don't know. I found myself in a tunnel, but this tunnel was half-full of water, there was a light in the end, the water brought me there and indeed, I did not want to go. I don't know why I thought that, I saw some kind of opening on my left, I would say another tunnel, but on my left I heard my dog barking, calling me. Effortlessly I went to my left and I exited the tunnel. I was stranded on some sort of embankment, my dog was there, and after that I don't remember.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  26 aout 1998

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  IllnessHeart attack    Other Rupture de valve suite a une angine blanche  I had this experience several times, and each time the machine connected to my heart was buzzing, so I believe my heart stopped.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Every moment, I see all this clearly.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Every moment, I see all this clearly.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Unable to measure time even now.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard a lot of things but I could not answer, I was there but I was not there.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     See text.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See text.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See text.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       In clouds, tranquility, peace, no fear. In the tunnel I was scared.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I feel I've been requested to live my life fully and happily, and to forgive. But this is more my own personal appreciation than really a delivered message.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    One year later, people are divided, some believe it, others think that the brain shows us all this, I don't try to convince anybody.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because I am sure I lived it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because I am sure I lived it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1valerie_l_nde_4043.html