{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1valerie_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Valerie L NDE 1039","mylang":"de"}
          	        Valerie L NDE 1039  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Valerie L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						466  Valerie L NDE  1039  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

On April 25, 2003 I was rushed to the hospital by ambulance because I was not able to breathe. I had lost about forty-seven percent of my oxygen, which was not good. I don't remember the ride to the hospital.  But from the time I left my body during that time I was floating to what I thought was heaven, I saw a bright light like I had never seen before. I felt a peace and serene feeling; this was peace was indescribable.  Then I looked up and there was my grandfather with open arms. He said he would take care of me. I looked to my left and I saw my two children telling me to come back. And I came back.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    APRIL 25, 2003

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Illness  PMEMONIA COULDN'T BREATH. SUFFOCATING.  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening Not sure what you mean.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I left my body several times during this whole ordeal. After I came back, my mother decided to hook me up to respiratory so I would live. I left my body, the doctors and my family were making decisions about me that I disagreed with. I even described the furniture to my family that was in that room. Then I was put into a drug-induced coma. I heard nurses tell people I couldn't hear them in the coma. I heard people the whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I seemed as if I was awake but somewhere else.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     It was just a big bright light for me!

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I saw my grandfather.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   So bright that it took me months to be able to tolerate regular light without sunglasses.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Heaven.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I believe now that we must trust God and really no one else because they will always disappoint you and let you down. I don't know that I will ever be physically or mentally stable.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Sometimes I get feelings about things and usually they're right.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was seeing the light and my grandfather.  The worst is seeing my family act like fools.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    One person believes me, very much so. I believe my mother even believes me now. I stay to myself a lot.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Question do we ever go back to being normal or have normal lives again.  I just don't feel as if I belong here anymore.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1valerie_l_nde.html