{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1valerie_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Valerie B NDE 6814","mylang":"de"}
          	        Valerie B NDE 6814  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Valerie B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3432 Valerie B NDE 6814  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					1st Experience: It happened in Venezuela; it was a Sunday, August 9, 1987. 

Two incredible things happened to me that day; as I had my handicraft business, I had several requests and Sundays was my usual day to fill the requests or pieces to sell, to paint some other pieces and to wash the clothes. My husband had taken the kids to the park to ride bicycles and from there go to my mother-in-law's home, thus he would home late. 

After working during the day I went to the kitchen area and to my surprise, my husband had left the tools on the kitchen counter. This made me angry and I said loudly, 'Damn it, this WOULD be the day that my husband would not leave things in their place.'  I started to pick them up and in that moment I hear a voice that tells me, 'That's it, everything in its place.'  I turn to the kitchen door and I see clearly a man, looking at me, smiling, dressed with a white tunic with a golden strap on the waist. He had wavy hair that almost touched his shoulders. It did not frighten me at all. Later he vanished. 

I took the tools, placed them in the box and put them in the assigned closet just under the stairway and in front of the kitchen. Once I placed the tools in place and closed the door, it dawned on me that I was alone at home, 'My God, if they left the door opened and somebody got in!' I ran to the kitchen and took a knife to defend myself in case someone would attack me. I ran to the main door, locked it, then to the garage door, locked it, then to the patio door, and locked it, and then I started to check all the rooms, closets and bathrooms of the lower floor. Then I went to the bedrooms upstairs and did the same. I even checked the chest of drawers, closed doors and went to the terrace area that goes to the patio and closed all the windows and access doors. 

Only my bedroom was left. Once there, I started to feel an inexplicable uncertainty. Right then I remembered that the being that was standing at the door was leaning as if on one foot, and I realized that I did not see any feet - writing this I get the chills remembering how I was running checking the house.  This Being was floating unmoving, and then I realized that he was Jesus of Nazareth. He was just as they describe Him to us, of course without wounds or thorny crown.  This calmed me.  Getting into the room, I told myself 'Better I just stay over here and be done'. I took the remote control, turned on the TV, started to watch the programs, and chose a movie. I did not even want to take a shower for fear of somebody being in the house, and left it to when my husband be back. 

I had watch TV for around an hour and a half and I felt that my husband had arrived and told myself 'Good, they have arrived' and I continued lying down.  In that moment, I saw a big light, very beautiful, getting close to my bedroom window. A womanly voice with an authoritarian tone tells me, 'We are coming, searching for you'. In that moment, my husband was taking the kids to their respective rooms, and then he was coming to our room.  

Just before he got to the bedroom door, I was out of my body and was trying to come back to it and I could not. The light ball was almost entering my room through the window and I was feeling my body, which was very heavy, and I could not move, I was observing myself. I ran towards my husband.  That still did not open the door and I was already at his side in the corridor.  He did not see me. I was speaking to him and he did not listen to me. I ran again to see my body, there it was, and I could not move. I was frozen like a Popsicle but I had a lot of heat inside me. Then my husband opened the door. 

The light was still there, I tried to talk to him, and he does not help me. He bent down and started to observe me. Then he got up and went to the kitchen.  I stayed, trying to move my body and I couldn't. I left my body again and ran to the kitchen on the lower floor because my husband was there and oh surprise! I could not go down the stairway and no matter how much I tried.  Nothing! I ran again to the bedroom and the light was still there, but closer to the window and almost getting in, and it was even more beautiful. 

Then I felt that the maid had arrived and had her daughter with her who was asleep. I called to her and she did not listen to me. She went to my side and did not see me. I ran to my daughter's room and started to caress her and spoke some words to her and nothing: she did not hear me. I caressed her hair and kissed her and she moved but nothing, she did not awaken. I ran again to try to go to the kitchen and nothing; I could not go down. I ran to my son's room and the same, he did not hear me. The curious part was that I never opened the doors; I did not know how I was getting in. Then I ran to the maid's room and nothing, she didn't hear me; and I spanked her and told her 'Mrs. XX, it looks like they want to take me, help me' and nothing. 

I left her room and ran again to the kitchen and nothing, I could not get down. I then went, looked at my body and got into it but nothing. I was aware but could not move and I was completely frozen. I got out again, went to the start of the stairway, bent down, and saw through the wall; from that part of the stairs, you could only see the kitchen door.  I saw that my husband was eating crackers with cheese and ham and had a full glass of cold milk. I screamed at him to stop eating, come, and help me: nothing, he did not hear me. I decided to go back to my body since I had realized that nobody could help me but myself.  I got into my body, the heat was very intense, and at the same time, I felt too heavy. I felt the bed was sinking and could fall to the lower floor because of how heavy it was. Then, the light started going away and my husband comes into the room. He gets close to the bed and started watching me and I tell him to help me and he does not hear me. 

Then he kneels down and starts observing me again. I was hitting him again. He did not see me, nor hear me nor feel my hits, he only moved his head. I started to pray the Lord's Prayer and suddenly I feel I am reciting it loudly and exactly where it says '...our daily bread...' 

I return to normal life, still cold and suddenly I feel a strong hit and a strong sound, as when a big machine gets stuck all of a sudden, something like trac-trac-trac and it was coming out of my heart and I opened my eyes and told my husband, 'Well my man, you are crazy. They are trying to take me away through the window and you, instead of helping me, were just eating and did not help me', and then told him, 'I am very hot, go with me to the bathroom, I do not want to be alone'. Upon touching me, he felt that I had sweated a lot and was very cold, and told me, 'Drink this water.' He had brought a glass of water with him. I was still in bed and feeling very heavy. I drank it, poured it over my head, and went to take a shower. I did not want to go to sleep, fearing they would take me. I stayed sitting all night long. 

I have had several experiences but I consider these have been the most powerful. 

2nd Experience: over here in Miami, Florida; I was writing and reading emails the 12 of November 2011 at 9 at night. 

Around 3 minutes to 10 I got up and told my husband, 'Good night, I'm going to sleep, I'm bored' and he answered, 'Why at this time? It is still early'. I am used to going to bed around 12 midnight or a bit later. 'No, good night, I am bored' and went to the bedroom. I lay down in the same position I am used to, face up and I slept. 

I don't know how long I had been asleep when I got out of the body and immediately appeared in the Third World War. The arms I was seeing were completely strange and rare compared to conventional arms, and the devastation was horrible: dead everywhere, roads destroyed, buildings, children and animals. As well as destroyed trees, and the water was contaminated. The world was deplorable and I died. Then I came to my body and told myself, 'I have to go back and see more'. I went out of my body again and I was seeing many wounded and mourning and much devastation.

Suddenly, I find myself in my body and started to feel that all my molars of my lower jaw had been taken out and had much pain. Then I felt as if my neck was being pulled with ropes towards my shoulders with much pain between both shoulders. At the same time, I felt as if I was tightened with a belt from the shoulders to the start of the nipples. I was totally frozen and motionless.

Then I became aware that my husband had been in bed.  I tried to move and I could not. I left my body again, I flew and flew quickly at an incredible speed, and I found myself in front of God. I explained to him that I still have things to do and bang! I came back to my body in thousandths of a second. I had no pain anymore but I felt a lot of peace and nothing: I cannot move. I went back to God (pure energy) and I explained to him that I am alive but that I can't move and bang! 

I went back immediately and I felt the belt squeezing me stronger but I did not have pain and I started to feel they were placing a chip, a foot in size approximately, in my right forearm going through my chest and going out of my left forearm. This chip was of a transparent material with many transparent little points. When they were getting the chip in the forearm, I felt as if an energy was being transferred to my body. It was as when seismographs detect and record an earthquake, the lines were very close, on a legal-sized white sheet of paper that was passing around me and I was feeling the noise of a great turbine, something like: 'fooo foo fooooo fooo or hoooooooooohoohohoh': an energy noise. I could not feel any pain, and then I could move the little finger of my right hand.

I was still stiff and cold. As I touched my husband, he immediately jumped from bed thinking it was a lizard that had gotten into the bed. When turning on the light I told him, clenching my teeth, 'Call the ambulance, call the ambulance'. He heard me and called 911. I got out of bed any way I could. I looked like a robot, walking to the living room. I told him, again clenching my teeth, that I did not have pain, but my whole body was stiff. I told him 'Tell them a heart attack' and he did. When the ambulance arrived I was feeling more tranquil, but still I felt I was not myself. They asked, 'Who?' and I told them: 'I' between my clenched teeth. They asked me if I had pain and I said no, but still feeling stiff inside and very cold, but I was not cold. They took my vital signs and to everyone's amazement all was well. 

Then they asked me if I was feeling all right, I told them yes, but that I was not totally myself. They asked me if I could walk to the ambulance and told them yes. I thought that if I tell them no, they could take longer and I could not let the minutes pass because there were two cars to move to let the ambulance back up and then having to wait for them to bring down the gurney. As I could, I went down the three steps and took six steps towards the ambulance. Once there they told me to lay down, something that I did with a lot of care. I was still stiff. One paramedic started to pinch [inject] my right hand and to the left I had another paramedic placing the clamp to measure the oxygenation. Then I turned to the paramedic and told her that I was starting to feel the pinching on my right hand because she could not find the vein. I always donate blood and the first time they don't get my vein quickly. She had pinched me six times. 

The guy at the left asked me if I was allergic to aspirin, I told him no;  a guy to my right told me they were giving me '3 children aspirins, take them with this', and he gave me a little glass. So, I took them and they asked me if I was taking any medicines. I explained that I did not have a thyroid, that it had been removed with a radiation pill. Then I felt that something wanted to come out of me and I threw up something black or an intense wine color. It was like a liver with a gelatinous mass. I threw up to the left of the paramedic. 

In that moment, my spirit sat down and left the ambulance, starting to fly and fly and fly. I heard that one told the other, 'take away the panty hose, take away the panty hose.'  I tried to hold on to it but then I was inside an immense dome, a light-salmon color, and I saw far away a beautiful city and turned around and saw my body on the gurney inside the ambulance and another ambulance behind this one and farther back my husband driving my car. 

I did not care about this; I only wanted to continue my flight to the beautiful city. Then I heard that many people were calling my name, but I only wanted to continue my trip to the beautiful city.  I found myself inside the hospital, with many tubes on my face, started listening to voices, and continue my trip to the beautiful city. I turned and I saw my husband talking to a man with a suit and a white shirt inside an office far away from where my body was; at the same time I saw around 25 people around my body and I continued flying at the same time. 

I started to hear a silverware noise, but they were surgical instruments, feeling they were sounding inside my sternum; I continued flying and at the same time, I tell my husband, 'tell him I don't have a thyroid, that I take artificial hormones'. The man asked him if he knows what medicines I take and he told him he does not remember. I told him 'tell him XXX and the number of milligrams.'  He does not hear me. I said it with a higher tone so the man would hear me but, nothing.  I tried to take my husband's hand, my hand goes through his hand and I screamed 'you can answer that I take XXX'. I continued flying and then he answered with the name of the medicine and the man writes it down. 

In that moment during my flight to the beautiful city, by now it is closer, a big light salmon-color coral block falls in front of me. I flew around it to pass it and my trip continues. Once closer to the city, another block falls diagonally, like this the block was hindering my arrival to the city.  It was repeated five times and every time the block was much bigger, and the city more beautiful and closer. Just when I was ready to go into the great city, a big voice, something like when a big thunder comes down and booms strongly. A very authoritarian form and sounding very loud says my name. 

I started to feel an incredible force, like a big turbine, pulling me back. Just when I was returning, I could see the moon and a big transparent being, like a jellyfish, was holding over his head the moon and in between both feet, holding the Planet Earth. I don't see the same people that were around me before. Instead, other people were taking my body to another room. I saw my husband on the outside sitting down with tears in his eyes. He was a little away from where they were taking my body. There they put me on a bed and I did not have tubes in my throat. 

I opened my eyes and I said 'What is going on?' I was so serene, with a great peace inside me and much security; there was a nurse there and she said I could not get up. She called and a doctor arrived, he was one of the doctors I saw when my body was surrounded with about 25 persons over the gurney. He told me 'Madam, how are you feeling? Do you have pain?' Very tranquilly, I told him 'Not at all'. Then he told me I could not move because they had put a mesh/stent in my heart and that I could not stand up because I had a blocked femoral artery. I answered, 'Yes, I have seen it'. They gave me saline solution in the Intensive Care Unit until the next day when they made me stand. On the 15th at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, I was already home, doing my normal routine without chest pain, only on the pelvis. Two weeks later, I was working normally, taking medicine. 

After a year, I started to feel a slight discomfort in my sternum. I want to emphasize that several times during my trip to the beautiful city I turned around and I was seeing my body close by but I absolutely did not care at all to leave my body and to continue my trip to the beautiful city. I was feeling so much happiness inside myself while flying and also I was feeling the breeze of the cool air while traveling and the intensity of the air. I felt it according to the speed. I could accelerate or de-accelerate my speed.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'Noviembre 13, 2011'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain      Other '1ra experiencia:-   estaba completamente  relajada   mirando TV.  2da experiencia: estaba  completamente dormida'  Because I left my body while sleeping and all of a sudden I was in the developing of the 3rd world war and I believe that all that happened to me was because of the stress I was having at the time. Once I returned to my body, immediately, in fractions of a second, I told myself  'I should go back and verify on what date that happened' and I left my body again and I did not like what I was seeing, it was so desolate, so depressing, the arms I saw were horrific and I died. Suddenly I am inside my body.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was hearing voices, when they pronounced my name, I was seeing my husband speaking in another room; I was seeing doctors and nurses around my body, listening to the noises of the surgical instruments. I was seeing the beautiful city. I knew I was flying: feeling the soft breeze hitting my face, I listened when they were saying take off the panty hose. When the man was asking questions to my husband;  I heard the loud voice like thunder when he pronounced my name; when the other people were calling me and I turned around seeing my body on the gurney and I did not care at all to leave it there like any dress. I only wanted to travel to get to the beautiful city; I saw the moon and saw the Earth when I was sucked, as if by a large turbine so I would go back. My husband corroborated all that I related to him when I awoke and I asked him why he was crying. I also described to him the man that was interrogating him and several nurses I could recognize, just by looking at them. I recognized the doctor when he came into the room.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I could see many scenes simultaneously and traveled at an incredible speed without any vehicle.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time, as I related it. I know I was dead for 3 hours and 35 minutes approximately. I remember seeing the clock before the arriving ambulance, it was 1:25 in the morning and just before being transferred to the Intensive Care Unit I saw a big clock on a wall right in front of the gurney where my body lay and it said 4: 55 a. m.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It is very complex to try to explain it, because I was flying at a great velocity. I was seeing my body from far away, as sharply as if I was floating over all that were around me and at the same time I could listen to my husband that was in another room. It is something incredible. As they say in the Catholic Church: 'GOD sees everything and is everywhere'.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was sharper than normal because I could see many things at the same time. It was like observing all around and through walls.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I would say: extremely acute. I could listen simultaneously the instruments inside me as well when they were asking questions to my husband in another room; and at the same time I was watching them, my body being on the gurney.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was aware that there was a superior being. Besides, I heard his voice pronounced in a tone like the noise of a thunder that resonated in my ears in the dome were I was, pronouncing my name.  I saw him when I was coming back, I saw him holding the Moon over his head and with his feet he held The Earth and I am certain that he was the one that pronounced my name with a thunderous voice. Let's make it clear that I did try to look for my father and my maternal grandmother or some of the paternal grandparents: all dead. I also tried to search for my two best friends, already dead, but I did not get to see them. I did know that they were in that beautiful city. What was most exciting was to know that I was going to see my father again.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I never saw darkness. All was clear in front of my eyes.  The unearthly light that caught most of my attention was the one from the beautiful city of salmon-color coral blocks that called me strongly, I felt attracted to it and I could see that it had its own light source. Those colors and tones of salmon-color were special. I believe on this Earth, human eyes have never seen such beauty.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     All was so marvelous that I did not want to come back and I did not care for my body, which I saw several times lying on the gurney.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I FELT HAPPINESS, PEACE, JOY. EXCITEMENT IS A DIFFICULT SENSATION TO EXPLAIN BUT EXCITEDLY PLEASANT AND COMFORTING.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     It was something magical, as I was aware that I had died and I did not care to leave my body abandoned and I wanted to finish arriving and start to enjoy so much peace and harmony. It could be called a feeling, but it is the pleasant sensation of not caring for anything or nobody but to be truly happy.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No     I did not see, in that moment, any scene about the past or the future. This experience I saw when I was asleep and I died, because I went to the Third World War and I know how, who and when it will start and the weapons they will use.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   They were dropping salmon-color coral blocks as I was approaching the beautiful city; these blocks were a little bit darker than the dome where I was flying and they were getting bigger. There was a moment I was unable to pass them and I heard the thunderous voice pronouncing my name. (An example: an egg, I am the yolk and between the yolk and the shell there is a space occupied by the egg white. Well, I was flying in that space between the yolk and the shell, the city is at the edge of the shell but the big block did not let me, and I tried to pass them to continue my trip to the beautiful and big city.)  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Fui criada  dentro  del concepto catolico, pero   desde muy niña  observaba  osas  que  no me  gustaban sobre el catolicismo,  ya  de adolescente  lei  articulos  en el periodico  que  involucraban a sacerdotes, ya  en mis  20 conoci  una chica  que  fue  abusada sexualmente  por un sacerdote, ya  entrada en los 30 conoci a otra  Sra   que me conto  habia sido abusada  por el sacerdote del pueblo donde vivia cuando apenas tenia 13 años  y  los abusos que  sufrio y las amenazas  para  que  no develara  a nadie  el secreto porque era pecado y termino embarazada, y luego hasta  tener  5 hijos, etc esos episodios  fueron cambiendo  mi perspectiva en cuanto a la religion Catolica pero jamas de los jamas he dejado de creer  en DIOS, Jesus de Nazarth y el Espiritu  Santo, y  leo  la  biblia y  siempre  tengo mi propia  creencia espiritual.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe much more in God and the Holy Spirit to the point that every time that I name God, I call him Pure energy.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Hoy dia sigo  creyendo mas en Dios  pero   con mas impetu  dentro de mi ya que es  ENERGIA PURA, en su hijo Jesus de Nazareth  y en El Espiritu  Santo porque  todos  tenemos  nuestro propio Espiritu o energia  Divina.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Todo lo vivi, conscientemente como  si estuviese disfrutando de un dia  de playa.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Now I believe more in God (Pure Energy), Jesus of Nazareth as a representative on Earth and in the Holy Ghost that is the Divine essence, the perfect love.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I, as described in my experience, I did see a being that had the consistency of a jelly fish, transparent, but we know is there. It is as if filling a bag with water, you can see everything through that transparent bag, we don't see the water but we know that it is inside the bag.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Estaba consciente  de que  habia  un ser superior    ademas  escuche  su  voz  pronunciar  en  un tono como el ruido de un trueno que  retumbo  mis oidos en la boveda donde me encontraba pronunciar  mi nombre. mi nombre, ademas  lo vi cuando  regesaba , l

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Aprendi  que no debemos ser tan materialistas en este mundo porque  no nos llevamos  nada absolutamente nada abandonamos el cuerpo  y listo una vida  nueva  comenzara  a partir de ese momento

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Si existe Dios  y para mi somos un atomo de  esa energia pura de Dios y  que hay dentro de cada uno de nosotros. Para  mi  fue un aprendizaje muy emocionante ya que he aprendido a reafirmar  mas  mi principio de que lo material no importa  nada  hacia el mundo que  estamos por vivir luego que el cuerpo fisico como lo conocemos  lo abandonemos  cuando fallezcamos.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I learned to love myself more and to give much more of myself to kids, the young and elderly; to teach them to be themselves and to not allow any body to interfere in their lives. To denounce any aggression to the authorities. To have more trust in their parents and to teach them that they also can teach things to their parents.  I knew I was dead and a joyful life was waiting for me in a beautiful city.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Aprendi que solo nos llevamos los sentimientos y aprendizajes.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Si, es cierto,  por todo lo que vi, senti, y escuche  durante mi experiencia ya que  describi en forma tal todo lo que  mi yo interno experimento durante  ese lapso de tiempo.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Aprendi a quererme  mas  y dar de  mi. mucho mas   hacia los niños, jovenes y ancianos, enseñarles que deben ser ellos y no permitir  que  nadie interfiera  en sus vidas  , y denunciar cualquier agresion ante las autoridades competentes y tener mayor confianza a sus padres y enseñarles  que ellos tambien  pueden enseñarles  cosas a sus padres

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Si, es lo unico  que  nos llevamos  de este  mundo  como lo conocemos.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     I have always shared with others and I restrained myself of giving me little pleasures. I was always thinking of giving and now I am more condescending to myself and allow some little luxuries and pleasures within my possibilities. I try to give more love with true feeling to any living being. I consider myself a bit more extroverted than before but with many moral principles. I sleep a lot less and I eat smaller portions. Slight changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I don't see the colors the same way I use to see them before, now for me they are all dull. The colors don't shine; over there they are so beautiful. I also feel more separated from people that have not given anything in life.  

  I distance myself from people that say something I know and they say it in a very harsh way, for example: a friend and fellow worker, (we were friends and even we had meals together), I always felt something telling me to get away from her and almost always when she arrived I got up and went to walk. Later the opportunity presented itself to do some work together.  All was going well until one day she told her stepson, in front of all the people that were there, 'You should do as I say because in this house I am the one that gives the orders and if someone does not like it, there is the door, because this house is mine'. I really did not like that and when I had a chance I told another co-worker what I had felt when she acted that way as I saw her die lonely and abandoned. I felt such sadness that I could not see her anymore and I moved away.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Durante   la primera experiencia  que  vivi, narrada a  en la primera parte que  fue un poco traumatica  por no saber a ciencia cierta  que me estaba pasando y en la segunda ya estaba  mas consciente del proceso que estaba  viviendo

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     This question is a bit uncertain for me because all my life I have been sure of the existence of other worlds. I have always dreamed or said things that later happen. Sometimes I have said things to people and later they tell me that I have told them, and many times, I don't even remember I said them, but later I recall it. I can read something and years go by and I can remember places, radio or TV programs, even the scenes. I can be awake and suddenly, I see a movie in front of me as if on a transparent screen where I have seen things like the Caracazo: the state coup in '92 [Caracas]. 

  In 1987, I told the family of my ex, just before the elections, to not imagine a lot of change since this was the last opportunity that democracy had a chance in Venezuela, my country. I also told my husband, just about five years before Obama was postulated as a candidate of the party, that a dark skinned man would be the president of the U.S.; and other small things that I can relate to personally. I also saw things about the Venezuelan deceased and the one that is now [president?] and many more things on a worldwide level. I don't write about them now; it is very difficult for me to say yes or no to this question.   I have noticed that when someone gives me some news, I make comments about the outcome and the why and the how and days later my spouse reminds me that I told him about it. My family has many of my predictions and my mother has a diary where I wrote many things some 15 years back and they are happening nowadays.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I have to love myself more and not be so hard on myself. The most meaningful image for me was how I sat and got out of the ambulance without opening the door and my beautiful trip started. I was happy. The transparent figure of the man holding the Moon with his hands and the Earth with his feet. I still have it present in my mind.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    From the moment that it happened to me and they brought me back, I told my husband and shared with my children and grandchildren and some relatives. I spoke to them clearly about death and all the experiences I lived. I explained to them that I don't want to be buried because I don't want the body where my spirit inhabits be eaten by worms. I want to be cremated and my ashes thrown into a field of flowers, and if they are margaritas it would be beautiful.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I did the commentary in the first block of the questionnaire, but I didn't know what happened to me that day.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I remember every detail and I am very sure of the experience I lived, besides every time that I remember it I thank God because I am alive and I can enjoy a bit more time over here.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     There is nothing in this world that would make me forget it and I am tranquil for the day when it is my turn, I only hope that my son be by my side for a while before the day of my departure.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It is the most marvelous experience any being in this life could experience and being able to share it. It is true that there is continued existence after earthly life, because of what I saw, felt and heard during my experience, as I described in such a way, all that my inner-self experienced during that lapse of time. God exists and according to me, we are an atom of the pure energy of God and it is inside every one of us. For me it was an exciting learning experience because I have learned to reaffirm more my principle that matter is not important at all for the world. We are going to live in after the physical body, as we know it; we'll leave it behind when we die. 

  I learned that we don't have to be so materialistic in this world because we don't take with us anything, absolutely anything. We abandon the body and it's done, a new life will start from that moment. Love is the only thing that we take with us from this world, as we know it. I lived it all, consciously, as if I was enjoying a day at the beach. During the first experience that I lived, (narrated in the first part), was a bit traumatic for not knowing  exactly what was happening to me and in the second I was more conscious of the process I was living.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1valerie_b_nde.html