{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1valerie_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Valerie R NDE 3921","mylang":"de"}
          	        Valerie R NDE 3921  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Valerie R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1863 Valerie R NDE 3921  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in surgery at the time. I had told my doctor I was scared to die, though my belief in Jesus is tremendous. Sometime during surgery I went through a tunnel, parts of my life passed me by, I had closed my eyes tight, I remember someone saying open your eyes. I was in a pure white space, and could see rooms with spirits walking around; I started to cry, but no tears. I remember looking at my hands and they were translucent, then an angel appeared, she had such a radiant glow to her beauty to behold, she comforted me, telling me I was safe. I remember telling her I wasn't ready to die. She said she knew that, then she pointed down, and I could see the doctors doing CPR on a little girl. Not really understanding that was me, I watched my whole operation, CPR, and all. I told her that was so sad; she looks so young. Then she said they are bringing her back, and I felt like I was pushed and thrown back into that painful body.

After I woke from surgery, my doctor told me I scared her and that they had lost me in the operating room. She asked me if I saw anything and I told her about watching the CPR, and the angels are the most beautiful beings one could ever see. I knew where I had been. I look at life different now.  Everything seems to have purpose. I am also able now to hear spirits of past loved ones, not just my own, kind of like a medium.  I am able to help people crossover. I have been blessed by the Higher Power with a true gift. Something I have never forgotten.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 1983

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  IllnessSurgery-related    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When the angel appeared to me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the angel appeared to me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No clock there, no time passage either.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Transparency, so bright.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Spoke, some through words, and some through spirit.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Passed through a tunnel, but closed my eyes almost halfway through, I think that I was told to, so I could not see the ending of my life. I remember flashes of my life; I think it was meant to be that way.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     An Angel, who stayed with me, and other spirit beings walking around.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright pure white, a white I have never witnessed here on earth.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw rooms, pure white rooms, kinda like levels of learning, and where you belong rooms,

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, Happiness. So much peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Parts of my childhood, my birth, brothers and sisters. I did learned who I truly was, bonded to life and love. I have learned a greater awareness of life and why there is purpose to all, I seem to accept everything, and am not attached much to worldly things or material things. Love is so important; it is the best and greatest gift to pass on.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The angel seemed to keep me in one certain area, though I wanted to go and observe, she keep me near her.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more spiritually connected, instead of church going.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more spiritually connected, instead of church going.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Knowledge of a great life after this life, purpose to give and love fully.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Some people fear me because I can read spirits.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The beauty of it, unsure of what others would think.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I now can read spirits that have crossed, whether related or not. I can tell people of things that have occurred in their life, or things that will occur.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The tunnel, such a bright light at the end, and the angel which stayed close to me. I am at peace now with life and death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only on certain occasions, I have a gift I must use wisely. Most are very accepting of my abilities. Example, I had a friend that lost his father who I never had met. His dad came through to me, to go show him a pine tree that was the first pine they planted together. I walked over an acre of land and pointed out the first tree they planted together, out of over three hundred trees on that land - a pine tree symbolizes everlasting life. My friend now understands the true power of eternal love.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew what had happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I seem to still accept life and death as a gift, I was given a gift.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   When my son was very ill in the hospital both he and I could feel the angels.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I can now feel spirits in some places I visit almost like a six sense.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I had experiences when I was young of seeing my grandmother who died, just before my grandpa passed.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1valerie_r_nde.html