{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vallia_y_nde.html","mytitle":"Vallia Y NDE 3227","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vallia Y NDE 3227  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Vallia Y NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1199  Vallia Y NDE  3227  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was talking to my sister in Montana and we were talking about the anthrax letters that had just been sent in the states. All of a sudden my whole body started getting rushes under the skin and then erupting through the skin (like bee stings), hundreds of stings going on at the same time. When they felt like they came through the skin, it would explode and become terribly itchy. I hung up the phone walked to the wall unit in my family room four feet away. Took an antihistamine, felt horribly hot and nauseas. I peeled off my sweater and went to the bath because I felt like I was going to throw up. The next thing I remember is lying on the tiles in the hall by the bath and thinking how nice and cold they were. My son came down the stairs with his friend and saw me lying on the floor. He called, 'Mom, mom,' but I can't answer or move (luckily I had a sports bra on as I had taken off my sweater). He called my other son who came up. They said, 'She doesn't look very good, she's all red and blotchy.' Meanwhile I'm lying there thinking, no kidding, I can't move, say a word. They decided to pick me up and take me to the hospital, five minutes away.

I heard the doctor screaming I had no blood pressure - I still can't move, blink an eye but I was aware of everything - saw everything even though my eyes were closed. I left the hospital and was floating in this black void.  There were no lights, sound or people. I wasn't scared. I had an inner peace I've never felt before or since I came back, NO PAIN and I had pain when I came out of the coma. I had a bowel movement, when I don't know, I never felt a thing it took about two hours to come around out of the coma. When I was in this place, I always thought I would be a fighter and do anything to live, but I didn't worry about my family. I saw their lives and just knew there were going to be up's and downs but that was okay, it was their life and they were meant to go through it - their destiny. I never wanted to leave this place. (Afterwards I look back and think why no lights? This is the scariest, because I've never heard of a 'NDE' which is in a void and black.)

My husband got to the hospital about two hours later he's talking to me and I'm thinking go away, cause he was calling me back and I didn't want to leave this peace. We have been married for twenty-five years and the first thing I could say to him was go home - go home, cause I felt if he left I could stay there longer. Can you imagine if I had died that was my last words to him. 'Go home!'

Anyway when I came back I was in horrible pain, I had fallen against the stair banister and hit my eye, which became a huge black eye. My breast hit the downstairs banister and I feel on both my knees and they were in pain for six months.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    'October 2001'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Allergic reaction  The Dr. said taking an antihistamine saved my life.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death 'my spelling may be wrong but it was a ''anaphylactic seizure. When I arrived at the hospital I had no blood pressure.'.  When I'm started with the allergic reaction I took an antihistamine. The doctor told me this saved my life, I would have died the reaction was so severe.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The whole time till about the last ten minutes.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      The whole time till about the last ten minutes.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I felt like I was floating in space surrounded by God's love but saw no stars, etc.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I saw with my third-eye, not my physical eyes which were closed and I couldn't move.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     Just a black void, no lights.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Although I felt someone, a higher being was talking to me and showing me my family's lives, my grandchildren, children, etc.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   Not a drop of light but I wasn't scared. I was in this peaceful void.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace, contentment, didn't want to leave.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Only my family's.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Uncertain     I just felt I was supposed to be here, in this beautiful space in time.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   'Raised Catholic, not practicing. Very Spiritual. Am a Reike Healer & distant healer'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No     I have always been spiritual.

What is your religion now?      Liberal   same as above

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No     I have always been spiritual.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was told the family's future, but I don't remember it, just an inner knowing that it is their life and chosen path and everything is already planned.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I tell people to let them know especially if they're atheists or have no belief.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I was in a place that was so peaceful, I never wanted to leave. There were no lights, music or people, just tremendous peace and happiness and no pain!!! Even though when I came out of the coma, I had a black eye, sore breast that hit the banister, and creamed both knees when I fainted and fell onto the tile floor.

I was aware of everything around me but couldn't move my body, blink an eye nothing.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I feel I'm a better healer, but I also had a NDE when I was about four (nearly drowned) so maybe I got my healing from this.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Everything, but afterward I wonder why I never saw any lights - this scares me - even though I was filled with peace and love. Have you had people not see any lights?

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I told everyone, shock, disbelief. Jealous that I'd had it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   Read books about it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Immediately, even to this day I think about it and it was like seconds ago.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I can hardly wait to go the great big adventure on the other side no fears of dying.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   I carry a pen around with me since then for a needle for another attack. They never found out what caused it.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      There is so much we don't understand, we're like living in a bubble. I really feel that you have a belief of a hereafter you experience that, although I didn't have a 'park' or 'religious' experience. I would go back there just for the feelings of inner peace and contentment, no fears and no pain that we have in this life physical pain.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vallia_y_nde.html