{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1valentina_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Valentina D NDE 9367","mylang":"de"}
          	        Valentina D NDE 9367  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Valentina D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5023 Valentina D NDE 9367  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

            Surgery for abnormal cardiac bundle ablation was begun at 8.  It was all finshed at around 1.  The surgery was done while I was awake.  They examined the abnormal bundle using a visualizing instrument like an X-Ray. They placed three femoral artery catheters into me, one in the coronary septum gave me a pain in the heart.  It was hard to breathe.  But I made a signal with my hand, they moved me and I felt okay.

  The isoprenaline IV drip was started a few times. It went in a circle for a few seconds, and the effect was a heart palpitation at a rate of 230.  They saw the abnormal bundle, a sort of pacemaker that became active sometimes and bothered me. With one of the catheters they put on the femoral artery, they begun the ablation using a radiofrequency.

  I felt waves of warmth that came out of the back.  They gave me exactly four burns. When the tachycardia started, I had obvious bladder swelling.  I had urinary retention. I was naked, wearing only my wedding band. It was cold. I had five people working on me. I cried from exhaustion, discomfort and disappointment. I told them to let me up because I was tired.  I didn't want any more of the surgery.  I said 'That's enough!'   The team leader responded to me, imploring me not to move because I could kill myself.  The last targeted ablation started.  They told me they had hit the target. They inject me with heparin to prevent a blood clot. Four of the five men leave hemodynamics. The team leader remains, and removes two of the catheters and leaves one in.

  He takes off his gown. The nurse takes out the last femoral catheter.  She calls the doctor.  He is on my right; the nurse on my left.  Like the manual defibrillator that I, however, don't see, she is behind my left ear.  The monitor echoes my electrocardiogram. The two orderlies read the numbers together in a loud voice: it's my cardiac frequency and it seems to be a backward count. I remember only 30. Then the light went out suddenly like when I close my eyes.

  There is a noise like when one opens a bottle of champagne. It's me, struggling to get out through my nose.  I am a gray ball like you would make with smoke. I have a curl, like a cockatoo. I recognize myself and I am happy. I begin to sneak out, bouncing and floating quickly through the room.  I'm up high, the scene seems much higher. The doctor is above me, and also the nurse.  The green of their gowns...and also the radiation tunic worn over them.  I was a monstrous body that I view with distaste, skinny and bony.

  I was very proud of my physical form. The scialytic lamp floods the room with light and green of the uniforms and of the sheets. I travel in varying directions, oscillating, I am very happy. At one point I see a dark wall. The colors in fact seem different. In nuances. In tones. A wall: no longer seems what it was before. There are two children: they are my children. They are at their grandparents' home, one is three years old (the boy and he has chicken pox) and the girl is six.  The boy is seated on a tricycle: it's new and I've never seen it before.  It's red, with yellow pedals and a green basket.  The girl sings in a loud voice a song about how her mother must return home; she is inventing the song and together they sing it and do a dance.  My husband bought the tricycle with supermarket bonus points, but I've never seen it.  He had opened it with his grandmother. 

   When I see it, I see it for the second time ...I turn suddenly and I am inside a tunnel.  It's rather dark, the wall seems like a cloud and cotton wool, there are dark shades.  It seems like when you are in the air.  Here I seem to have eyes, because I put all my energy into not looking at the tunnel.  A radiant light; an emanation of joy.  I don't hate the noise.  I struggle not to look.  It's too beautiful.  I know I want to be there...but again I hear the marvelous song of my children.  I feel a brake because the tunnel has something that pulls like a magnet.  The tunnel has a diameter in which is also divided.  I travel alone.  The light is at a distance.  There are like four more rooms in there.  The song stops me, I feel a pain in my chest.  I open my eyes, see the full freckled face of the doctor.  I felt that he had requested to charge the defibrillator, but I don't know when.  I held my left ear open to hear if the defibrillator echoed. Everything was okay.

  *  I had a maddening pain, in the heart, in the femoral vein (in the two inguinal zones), I have a big belly and have to pee urgently, I am happy because those two little urchins recalled me to this earth, to play my role of mother, to continue my role as wife, daughter, sister, nurse.  The view, the perceptions are felt like they were all united with the atmosphere.  You know everything, you know it because you are absolutely conscious of everything.  You are expansive, you are the universe, you are infinity.  No pain, only love and infinite joy.     

Circumstances around the time of the experience:   Other:   Cardiac arrest removing ablator catheter after abnormal cardiac bundle ablation.    

Your condition at time of experience:   Ventricle atrium completely blocked.   My heart stopped beating for a little while. Absence of heartbeat.    

Experience included:   Out of body experience;Tunnel; Unearthly light; Darkness; Boundary; Strong emotional tone.    

Your religious background at the time of the experience:   Christian- Catholic     Other/Comments: I thought that God wanted me to occupy myself with raising the children (ages 3 and 6 at that time). In effect they had a troubled adolescence (one of the two in particular)    

Your religious background currently:   Christian- Other Christian  Other/Comments:  Idea of God seen as love; source of love.  Humans and animals are all connected with nature and the universe.  I found so many explanations in Spiritualism and in Shamanism.    

How do you consider the content of your experience to be:   Entirely pleasant    

At the time of your experience was there an associated life-threatening event?    Yes, I had a disabling heart problem for three years, that brought me depression and the desire to die.  I had moments in which I thought and hoped to die. I couldn't take the pain, the suffering, my disability.  I wasn't myself anymore, but a phantom ball of pain.  The drugs no longer had effect.      

Was the experience difficult to express in words?   Yes, colors, time, form, perception, sounds,...are indescribable.      

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Always equal, but I forgot when I went into the tunnel.       

Did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?       More consciousness and alertness than normal, you know everything, you have no need of asking questions. You are happy.       

Compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Different.  I understood without looking with the eyes.     

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Different.    

 What emotions did you feel during the experience?    Zero pain, euphoria, joy.  Vitality, love. Knowldge of infinity. We are infinite and love.    

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?    Yes.    A tunnel like a cloud and cotton wool, but dark.  It was also divided.  I was alone.  I saw a light that I didn't look at; maddeningly attractive.  I knew that if I looked at it I wouldn't turn away.  The light was at a distance from me, in like four rooms.      

Did you see an unearthly light?    Yes      

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?    No      

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?    No      

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?    No      

Did you become aware of past events in your life during your experience?   No      

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?    A clearly mystical or unearthly realm      

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?    Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning      

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?    Everything about the universe      

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?    Uncertain  I wanted to return, because I remembered my children, and I had the awareness that I was leaving them to grow up alone.  I knew, and I had had enough.      

Did you come to a border or point of no return?    I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life. I heard the children singing a song for me, and that I would have made them grow up alone ...I had the desire to return.     

Did scenes from the future come to you?  No.      

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness suggesting that there either is (or is not) continued existence after earthly life (“life after death”)?    Yes   I saw the invisible dimension, perceived the infinite.  You know, you are the universe, everything.      

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness that God or a supreme being either does (or does not) exist?    Yes   You are everything, you feel love.    

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness that you either did (or did not) exist prior to this lifetime?    Yes   When I went out of my nose like a spirit I kind of grinned with joy in recognition, in the rediscovered dimension that I recognized, I was disgusted by that miserable body in which I was suffering.      

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness that a mystical universal connection or unity/oneness either does (or does not) exist?    Yes   you feel connected, the all.      

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness regarding earthly life’s meaning or purpose?    Yes   about the objectives, because I left intact the job of mother. ...I hadn't carried it through    

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness regarding earthly life’s difficulties, challenges, or hardships?    No      

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness regarding love?    Yes    You feel, you know all. You don't ask; you are aware.  You don't have questions.      

During your experience, did you encounter any other specific information / awareness that you have not shared in other questions that is relevant to living our earthly lives?    No      

Did you have a sense of knowing special knowledge or purpose?    Yes   You know everything. You don't have questions. You are everything.      

What occurred during your experience included content that was consistent or inconsistent with beliefs you had at the time of the experience?  I didn't know about the NDE. I was amazed.    

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?    I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.     It seemed to happen two minutes later.     

Discuss any changes that might have occurred in your life after your experience.  I believe in reincarnation.     

My experience directly resulted in:    Large changes in my life    

Did you have any changes in your values or beliefs after the experience that occurred as a result of the experience?    Yes  I believe in immortality and reincarnation, in infinite love.    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?    Yes. Dreams, sensations, some visions,  sensations that would come true.    

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Yes. They made me understand what things are, spiritual  evolution.    

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes, years.  I was seen as a crazy woman.  Now I will talk about it with someone.    

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No      

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened:    Experience was definitely real; a miracle, something crazy. A gift.    

What do you believe about the reality of your experience at the current time:    Experience was definitely real. Spiritual evolution.    

Have your relationships changed specifically as a result of your experience?    Yes. My choice of people       

Have your religious beliefs/spiritual practices changed specifically as a result of your experience?    Yes   I believe in reincarnation, spiritual evolution.    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   waking dreams, with light that invades me and fills me with joy and energy.  One time there was an angel over me, and I saw it also in dreams. I know its voice.      

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?   It's scary the strong impact that it has on your life.      

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?    Yes           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1valentina_d_nde.html