{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1valeria_i_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Valeria I Possible NDE 439","mylang":"de"}
          	        Valeria I Possible NDE 439  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Valeria I Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3836 Valeria I Possible NDE 439  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					January of 1980. 

I was a divorced mother of 3 at the age of 32. I was hospitalized for a simple procedure called a D&C.  [Editor’s Note: Dilatation and Curettage is a surgical procedure scraping of the uterus.] 

Several months later, I did not heal from the procedure. I went for a follow-up to my Doctor. Upon examining me, the Doctor saw something that he did not like. His only words were, ‘Go to the hospital NOW.’ He said he wanted to be sure all was okay. I wasn’t afraid because I had trusted this doctor almost all my life. I felt that he could do anything. He was my father-figure and dear friend. I was admitted to the hospital. Tests were performed. One morning my doctor came to see me with his face looking down at the floor.  This was different than normal because he had always approached me with a smile and removed his glasses whenever we were together.  Now he couldn't face me. I thought maybe it was because my mother and family were there, and sometimes they could be a little over-bearing. 

The doctor told me that I had a cancerous tumor right at the tip of my uterus that appeared to have been cut off. It was very close to the lymph area. I had no idea what he was talking about. He said that a biopsy showed that the tumor was malignant. My response was, ‘So, now what?  What are you going to do now?’ He slowly told me, ‘You'll have to have a hysterectomy, besides you have three children now.’ I didn't want to hear this because I wanted to have a child by my loved one (K) in a few years or so. Then he told me that hopefully they'll be able to get all the cancer out with radiation and chemotherapy. I'm a late bloomer, and still did not realize what was happening. He left me with my mother. 

Within the hour, the realization of my death and the seriousness of this diagnosis hit me. I let out the loudest scream possible. My mother and loved one left my room running. Immediately, the doctor and an attending nurse ran into my room. I was given a sedative to relax me and put me to sleep. I had no idea what was happening within me. I had been having my pap-smear every year with no evidence of cancer, but now???  Why me. I love (K) with too much of me, and now I won't be able to have his child. I was hurt.  

The operation was scheduled for several days later.  I remember asking my doctor to please be with me. In the operation room, I told the surgeon to wait for my doctor as he explained what I'd be feeling from the surgery. He told me to not be afraid and to have faith that all would be all right. Then he told me to count backwards from 100. As I did, I remember getting to 89 and telling him to wait because I wasn't asleep yet.

Immediately, I saw myself rising from the bed and at the ceiling of the room looking down on my body. Next, I was rising through the beautiful clouds into a sweet, peaceful, loving, delicate, and secure place. I knew I was in the place where God is. There was no fear, no pain, no hurt, and no worry.  I felt none of the things holding me down that were with me just a few minutes ago. I felt the deepest peace and love flowing all around and within me. I felt secure beyond measure. 

A loving presence surrounded me, but a brighter image approached me. The entire place was spotless without a touch of darkness or shadow. The light was pure and without a source because it is the source. I wanted to get closer to the image approaching me, but I remembered my children. I asked Jesus, who was the light image, to please let me raise my children and see my grandchildren. I then remember a nurse in the recovery room telling me, ‘Come on honey, you can do better than this. I have seen dead people with better blood pressure readings than this.’ I was returned to my hospital room. 

I dreamt of Jesus for days. Prior to this, I was not interested in Jesus, religion, or anything like that. I did not even consider it. I just felt that when you die it was the end, no more. I went home, but was returned several weeks later, as I wasn't taking care of myself as expected by the doctors. They wanted me to start treatments, but I was not being nourished properly to withstand the cancer treatments. Several times during a week, I'd have the dreams/visions of Jesus. My loved one would not sleep with me, and that hurt me more than I can say. So, I was returned to the hospital.  I was kept longer than the first operation. I was giving up because I felt empty inside. I started going downhill. My desire to live was leaving me. Some said I was just malnourished, but within myself I felt unloved, unwanted, and undesirable. 

After experiencing the glorious place of light during the surgery, it was time to give up. One day I saw my mother's minister visiting someone in his congregation. I hollered for him to visit me. I asked him to pray for me; because if he didn't, I would just leave here, since everything seemed useless to me anyway. He prayed for me and left me with a booklet of St. John. I read the booklet, and again that night I had dreams/visions of Jesus Christ. Upon waking the next morning, I felt a release of much doubt, and a will to try and get better. 

I was released two weeks later, and proceeded to have the months of radiation therapy. All looked well. My lover (K.) left me and moved out right after the radiation treatments ended. I was hurt beyond measure/words, for the rejection which he left me. My doctor and the surgeon asked me to have K talk to them, but K. had experienced a hurt deeper than I could see. K. felt guilty and responsible to some extent. His separated-wife and another girlfriend were both diagnosed with cancer prior to me. We had been together for about 6-7 years. He refused to let go of his pride to get advice from another man. All I saw in myself was empty, ugly, lost, hurt, useless, hopeless, dead, and totally rejected.  

1984 

Several years later, I met a man (J.) who seemed attracted to me regardless of my past. I moved from Ohio to California and we were married in 1982. My love for K. was still overwhelming within me. There was a period when I felt like I was in a trance; after all I had left my mother, sister, many, many friends and acquaintances, and K.  I wondered how and why I left my life in Ohio. Once I had a dream/vision of a black witch hanging around our home. My marriage was seriously shaky. My husband and I were on two entirely different levels, and I feared rejection. 

On 7/26/84 I had a dream/vision like none other. I dreamed that my brother (who really was K., my loved one) was walking out of a baseball dugout. I saw the sun slowly falling from the sky. People were running all over the park. K was walking around like nothing was happening. I was worried, and said to K, ‘Come on, Honey, it is not too late to pray’. K didn't respond to me. He just kept on going. I was in a panic state of mind. I didn't want him to go; but he just kept on walking, as the sun continued to fall from the sky. I was awakened by my husband, J. 

I deliberately went back to sleep because I wanted to save K. This time as I drifted off to sleep, I was in the darkest blackest void imaginable. It was cold and darker than words can say. I couldn't see anything but total black. All of a sudden there appeared a pack of four wolves/wild dogs with teeth like fangs that were after me. At the blink of an eye, I was in the light again. This left me very scared. Never in my life had I ever experienced such a dream/vision as this. 

On 7/29/84, my sister in Ohio phoned me to tell me that K had died. Being the late bloomer that I am, I just responded with ‘Oh, that's too bad.’ About 1/2 hour later while walking to my mailbox, I realized what my sis had told me. Once again, I let out the loudest scream possible. I felt like my very own life had just been stolen out of my body. I did not want to live sure enough now. I phoned my sister back to get the details. When she told me that K died of a massive heart attack.  He was pitching at a softball game in the neighborhood park. 

I returned to work several days later. I told a new friend what had happened and she invited me to her church. I thought, ‘What do I have to lose - my love was gone.’ I attended church for 2 weeks. One day while at home all alone and with all doors and windows shut, I cried uncontrollably for the loss of my heart: K. All of a sudden, I heard an audible voice. I looked around to see if my husband had come home from work early, but no one was in the room but me. The voice was 110% real and audible to me. Immediately there was peace, quiet, reassurance, and an unsurpassed love within me. The voice spoke WORDS that are within me to this day.  The words are more real and true than life itself. About 30 minutes or so later, I realized that I was ministered to by ‘THE ALMIGHTY GOD’. HE told me what to do, what not to do, and how to do what HE wants me to do. The ‘WORDS’ are engraved in my inner-being. I cannot erase them even if I wanted. At the end of the conversation, ‘GOD's WORDS’ were like echoes down the halls of what we call time. 

My life has made a 99 degree turn from what it was before. Today I have an unquenchable desire to seek and do God's Will. I have no value for money or material things. My husband on the other hand is 110% into spending money and materialistic things. I fear no death, and I completely trust God in answering all my prayers and meeting all my needs. I can't get enough of seeking God through Jesus Christ. I know I am loved by ‘HIM’, and that is all that counts. Presently I know my children and husband love me on their level, but only God fills the absence within me. My family can't make me happy. They try but, I seek and desire beyond their sight.

In 1998, when I was diagnosed with a heart attack, I drove myself to the hospital as my husband said he had to babysit his grandchildren since their mother was not able. My daughters were at work. My son is an alcoholic who has separated himself from me and the family. I felt no fear or harm.  I knew God was with me; plus I had a wonderful cardiologist.  

In 1999-2000 I was hospitalized for kidney stones several times. As promised, only God was with me. I'm still here.

In 1994 I had meningitis from May through September. Only God answered my silent prayer by sending me a book on tape called, ‘Names of God’ that I felt would help me at that time and period. My husband and family never suspected that I asked God to take me out of here from all the pain. Every hair on my head hurt to a level 10+. Even with meningitis, my husband was not instrumental in helping. But, Jesus stepped in and did what He does best.

Recently, I had a dream of K. I wanted to go to him. But, K only pointed to the being of light that I had seen and been with when I had the surgery in 1980, as if to say, ‘Jesus is all the Love I need and desire’ - and He is.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  3/80 - 6/84

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Surgery-related.     Cancer - uterine  In 1980: the spread of cancer to lymph area  In 1984: the death of my loved one

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  In 1980: my body was very light in sensation.  No hurt, no pain, no worry.  I knew that I was separate from the physical body I once had.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In 1980, 1984: I was very much aware of my surroundings

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     In 1980: there was no time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    no

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     In 1980: the beautiful brightness within the light approached me.  I saw no physical body; only an extremely intelligent brilliant light form within the brightness all around me.  I knew Jesus was with me.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   In 1980: at first I saw myself going through beautiful clouds.  Then there was a brightness beyond our vocabulary.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     In 1980: at first I saw me rising through clouds, and then being in the most lovely, beautiful and loving atmosphere imaginable.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       In 1980: the deepest and most true love, peace, and security.  In 1984: loss of the only love I ever wanted, needed, or desire.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     In 1980: there is no death.  True life and true love is beyond our knowledge where I went.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     In my dream/vision of 1984, I saw my loved one die as the sun was going down.  Three days later, my loved one died.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   In 1980: I asked to return only to continue bringing up my children and to see my grandchildren.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Presbyterian

What is your religion now?       No Response   Presbyterian.  I am drawn to seeking our Heavenly Father through His Son - Jesus Christ.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     In 1980: I no longer fear death.  I love everyone unconditionally.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   In 1980: when in heaven above, I felt so much peace, love, and security that I didn't want my family members and loved ones to know that I didn't want to return back to my body.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Periodically I see things before they happened.  I heard an audible voice speaking to me in 1984. Periodically I get surges of electricity going through my body (especially my hands) with uncontrollable crying.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best: 1980 - Knowing that GOD is in control. Knowledge of the truth in life/death.  Knowing that I am loved by "The Almighty", and "He" will never leave me nor forsake me. Knowing that it is "God" that lives within me, and "His" purpose will be fulfilled through me.    The worst: 1984 - Losing my loved one (physically). Yet, the essence of our shared love still exists within me!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    In 1980: unbelief. My husband says that I act arrogant because of what I "say" I saw and heard.  Some show no sincerity at all and think I am just talking. My sister told me to share this with others, but I am very conscious of rejection from others. My sister also senses the supernatural spiritual essense I have been having. The ones who should receive/act on my experience just pass it on as if it were an everyday event.    In 1984: people think I should forget and let it go.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   In 1994: I was diagnosed with meningitis. I prayed to die because of the severe pain I experienced for months. I had no help from family members. One day I watched an evangelist speaking on "The Names of God". I wanted this book so much, yet I did not even have $5. to send for it. I kept this desire within me as my husband was as empty as ever. I told no one. Within 2 weeks I received an audio tape/book from another evangelist named "The Names of God". Within one week I came back to my old self.

  In 1998: While in church, I experienced shortness of breath and heat. Upon going to the doctor the next day, I was diagnosed as to having a heart attack. I went on my vacation to Ohio. Upon my return, the doctor put me in the hospital to see what was going on. I was diagnosed with cardiomyopathy. The cardiologist said that I had very very severe damage to my heart and put me on about 9 different meds. The mention of heart a transplant was discussed, but I disregarded it as I was not afraid to die. In 2001 upon my regular checkup with the cardiologist, I prayed that when they x-rayed my heart, that they would see God. I left the doctors office. About 1-hour later, my doctor phoned me to tell me to get off 1/2 of the meds prescribed because my heart has improved tremendously. I now only take 2 medications for my heart as a precaution.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Jesus is eternal love and all that is perfect and good.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1valeria_i_possible_nde.html