{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1vadra_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Vadra P NDE 913","mylang":"de"}
          	        Vadra P NDE 913  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Vadra P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						382  Vadra P NDE  913  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was being choked to death by an acquaintance. I tried to ask him to let go but I was being choked so hard that I couldn't even get words out of my mouth. The last thing that I remembered was looking at him in pain.


I didn't go through any tunnels or anything like that but all of a sudden, I was in the most beautiful place that I had ever seen, and I felt like I was really there. The grass was so very green and the trees were more beautiful than I had ever seen. I was happier and more free then I have ever felt (to this day I have never felt like that again). It was wonderful and peaceful. The smell of the air was a freshness that I cannot explain. I could move from one place to another in a blink of an eye and everywhere I went was different but just as beautiful. I could actually fly. It just took a thought and off I would go. I felt as though I was in a very familiar place and was afraid of nothing. I was around many children even I felt younger then I actually was. It's hard to explain the sensations I felt. I was playing, flying, and looking down on the earth from far above. I had no fear, anxiety, confused feelings or anything like that. I felt whole, like that peaceful life that everybody longs for. I'll never forget it because it was absolutely wonderful.


Then all of a sudden my body started to tingle (and throughout the time that I was there I had no feeling of pain or anything) everything went black and I woke up in the same spot that he left me in. My body I could feel again and I felt pain throughout it. I felt like a million knives stabbing me, then I opened my eyes and felt the comfort of the Lord by my side and I felt a peace knowing where I'm going when I do die. It was a wonderful place but I'm not in a hurry to get back there.


GOD be with you All!!

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1994

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Criminal attack    Clinical death See narrative.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was very alert. I felt as though I was actually there. I could smell, feel, etc..

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Children laughing and playing, the sounds of the trees softly, birds.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Lots of children everywhere.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   There was a brightness right before entering the pasture.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Everything I touched or saw was the most beautiful that I have ever seen.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No     I've always kept Jesus close to me and in my heart since I was a little girl.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I seem to know what people are thinking all the time. I'm in tune with them when speaking with them to the point they don't have to even talk to me if they don't want to because I already know. I can feel the pain of a loved one. For example, my father passed away, and I knew years prior to him passing. Some call that an instinct I call it a gift. I knew what he was going to pass from also. I even told family members that he was going to die and that the doctors wouldn't be able to do anything about it. I can also feel the presence of spirits.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The worst part was the pain in my body when I woke up.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some people think I'm crazy and others think it's cool.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1vadra_p_nde.html