{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V36 1951-52","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v36_1951-52.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V36 1951-52","mylang":"de"}
JOURNAL
of the
ociety for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXXVI
1 95 1-2
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
31 Tavistock Square •
London •
WCi
The purpose of the Society for Psychical Research, which was
founded in 1882, is to examine without prejudice or prepossession and
in a scientific spirit those faculties of man, real or supi osed, which
appear to be inexplicable on any generally recognized hypothesis.
The Society does not hold or express corporate views. Any opinions
expressed in its publications are, therefore, those of the authors alone.
The Council desire that material printed in the Society's publica-
tions shall be put to the fullest possible use by students of psychical
research. Permission to reproduce or translate material published in
this Journal must, however, first be obtained from the Society and
from the author. Applications should be addressed to the Editor in
the first instance.
ii
'i
'
*
JOURNAL
of the .
Society for Psychical Research
Volume XXXVI No. 662 January-February 195 i
A DECISIVE FACTOR IN THE
ASSESSMENT OF EVIDENCEi
BY G. N. M. Tyrrell
The purpose of the following argument is to show that in the
collection of evidence in psychical research one very important
factor has been largely ignored. The primary aim of the psy-
chical researcher is to collect evidence and to carry out experiment,
making both as water-tight as possible. But he begins to do this
without previously criticizing the situation in which he proceeds
to act. He regards the public as being divided into a credulous
section on the one hand and a sceptical section on the other, with
a tiny minority of truly balanced individuals in the middle, of
which he is of course one. But a little reflection is sufficient to
show that the situation is not as simple as that ; for the person who
is careful and sceptical in psychical research accepts evidence of a
lax and hearsay type in ever}'^day occurrences and, strangely
enough, this lapse into credulity is justified on the whole. Again,
determination on the part of the investigator to be wholly ob-
jective in his methods can lead to the worst kind of subjectivity,
not only in psychical research, but in every research of a far-
flung kind : for while the conscious attention is projected into the
outside world, the internal working of the mind attempts to force
upon the facts an interpretation that is suited to its own structure.
The lesson that this teaches is that in any such far-reaching
subject as psychical research we should keep an eye on the work-
ings of our own minds.
One curious feature, visible in the highly sceptical critic, is that
he reveals his attitude far more by his behaviour than by what he
directly says. This applies not only to the critic of psychical
^ At the Editor's request, Mr Tyrrell kindly prepared this abbreviated
version of the paper which he read at a meeting of the Society on 21
September 1950.
35^^470
3S6 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
research but to human beings at large. For example, some philo-
sophers who have a certain acquaintance with the Proceedings and
Journal of the S.P.R., when writing about such a thing as the
scope of knowledge, assume that the physical sense-organs pro-
vide all the information we have and, if they mention extra-
sensory perception at all, they skate lightly over it as if it were an
mcidental triviality and not a fact of central importance, which it
must be if It exists at all. Something other than pure reason is
obviously at work deflecting their arguments towards a prede-
termined end. It is behaviour rather than overt logic which reveals
their true attitude.
If we look back over the past history of psychical research, we
cannot help asking ourselves why the subject has made such slow
progress m comparison with other subjects—why, after seventy
years of careful research, there is still no more than a handful of
people at work on it. Why do its funds remain so painfully small,
when many other projects of less importance in an ultimate sense
have made outstanding progress ? The answer seems to be that the
great majority of people by-pass the subject, impelled by some
reluctance or repugnance in themselves, and turn to other things.
There may be—in fact there are—cogent arguments which show
that the paranormal is of first importance for human knowledge ;
but these arguments do not make any impression, and it becomes
clear that it is behaviour and not rational argument which is the
decisive factor in the general attitude towards psychical research.
In other words, there is an innate instinct which determines
peoples' behaviour ;
so that when the paranormal is broached the
general attitude to it is not properly rational. When instinct is in
the saddle, we cannot be surprised if the mind tends to be im-
pelled towards foregone conclusions, and can only be weaned from
these conclusions slowly and painfully by continuous repetition
of the same evidence and the same experimental results.
Another thing which brings to light this sub-rational influence
IS the light and casual way in which highly intellectual people deal
with this subject. Professor A. D. Ritchie, for example, when
treating of psychical research, wrote as follows :
... that a number of very queer and obscure phenomena have been
observed that do not fit in well with orthodox theories about bodies and
minds and their relations. These phenomena can be interpreted in
terms of a theory of '
spirits '
but they could equally well be inter-
preted otherwise and with a saving of gratuitous hypotheses. It seems
that one must accept either telepathy or clairvoyance as a fact and most
probably both as independent facts. Well, granted telepathy and
clairvoyance and granted too the possibility of a certain amount of
distortion of the temporal sequence of events, so that what is in the
'
'
^95^] ^ Decisive Factor in the Assessment of Evidence 357
future for one person's experience is not always in the future for
1
another's, it seems possible to account for all alleged '
spirit ' communi-
! cations. It can, perhaps, be done by means of telepathy and clair-
I
voyance without temporal distortion, or by telepathy and temporal
. distortion without clairvoyance. The point is that the '
spirits '
have
I
never reported anything which has not been already known to some
[
living person, or about to be known in the near future or available in
written documents, or by means of some already existing material
evidence.^
! The interesting thing about this quotation is not the kind of theory
that Professor Ritchie supports but the light-hearted casualness
; ! with which he deals with telepathy, clairvoyance, precognition,
'
etc. If these functions of the mind are facts, then they are central
to our knowledge of the mind and should not be injected into
arguments until they have been made the central theme of inquiry.
Imagine the criticism that would be aroused if any '
normal '
sub-
ject were treated in this casual manner or brought into serious
argument without careful study. One can almost hear an inward
voice saying : This is only '
paranormal '
stuff : it won't enhance
your reputation if you take it seriously!
From the rational standpoint, what reason is there for lightly
dismissing the paranormal? There is surely no valid reason ; on
the contrary, there is every reason for scrutinizing it with the
utmost care ; for if the evidence is valid, it is of the greatest con-
sequence for science, philosophy, and human knowledge in
general : in fact, it throws a vivid light on the entire human
situation, and throws it into a perspective which is quite different
from that commonly accepted today. One would think that this
would act as a spur to every thinking person and make him wish to
V probe the paranormal to the bottom. But the fact is that while
t the normal stimulates curiosity the paranormal kills it. It does
even more than kill curiosity : it engenders a resistance to serious
consideration of it. When Dr Rhine, and others in this country,
carried out quantitative experiments in extrasensory perception,
in which the odds against chance rose to astronomical proportions,
the general reaction was to find a way of escape from the conclusion
to which the evidence pointed, not an enthusiastic desire to repeat
the experiments all over the world and so to install a new piece of
knowledge of the highest importance.
If we take a wide survey of the subject, it is surely as plain as a
pikestaff that the common reaction towards evidence for the para-
normal is not prompted by the purely rational faculty of the mind
but is prompted by something below the rational level—something
*
' Theories of Immortality ', Philosophy, vol. 17, no. 66 (April 1942)
p. 119.
35^ jfouriial of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
that is very nearly akin to instinct. Many people would be terribly
shocked at the suggestion that men of science could have the
balance of their minds upset by deep-seated instincts of whose
existence they were unaware. It would be objected that if there
are instincts of this kind, psychologists vv'ould have discovered
them ;
and also that science could not have achieved its enormous
successes if instinct had the power to interfere with reason. The
answer to this is highly illuminating if we take tight hold of our-
selves and refuse to push it away. Psychologists have failed to
realize the presence of this instinct because they are as much under
its influence as anyone else. It is not like the individual complexes
with which psychiatrists deal : it is not even a group-character-
istic belonging to scientists (although it is true that science has
reinforced it) : it is a racial characteristic belonging to the whole
of mankind—a product of mental evolution. For evolution did
not stop short when it had adapted our bodies to their physical
surroundings : it adapted our minds to their surroundings as well.
But the latter process was far more subtle than the former : it
was part of the instinctual suggestions themselves that they should
be concealed from consciousness. As for the argument that
science could not have succeeded if reason had been influenced by
instinct, the answer to that is that science succeeded precisely
because instinct did interfere in the processes of the mind. It was
because the mind had been pre-adapted to deal with the external
world that science was so successful in every practical direction.
A question that inevitably inserts itself at this point is : How,
if this instinctive suggestion is universal and invisible, can anyone
become aware of it.'' It is a fundamentally important question ;
but for the moment it must be regarded as a side-issue, for there
is no space in which to deal with it. Very briefly the answer is that
the human mind is not a monad but is more akin to a spectrum.
It can attain to different levels of awareness. Intuition and inspi-
ration are examples of this. Only the practical level of the mind is
wholly dominated by adaptive instinct ;
yet the latter rises into
and influences higher levels—that of intellectual thought, for
example—and deflects its reasoning towards foregone conclu-
sions.
To go into the nature of the adaptive instincts which enter into
the structure of the mind, or even to follow the work of psycholo-
gists, such as C. G. Jung, who has taken steps that should have led
him in this direction, is impossible here. But there is one feature
of this instinct which bears on psychical research, as well as on
many other things. This is the instinctive resistance put up by the
mind to anything which comes from beyond the province of the
senses. Why nature should have instilled this resistance into us
1951] A Decisive Factor in the Assessment of Evidence 359
would entail a lengthy explanation ; but the main fact is that the
sense-world had to be accepted as all-inclusive, otherwise the world
would not have appeared to be simple enough for the primitive mind
to grow and to act in. It is because of the pre-adaptation of the
human mind to the physical world that every question that arises
in practical life is capable of being clearly and finally answered.
The effects of mental adaptation can be traced in science, in a
great part of philosophy, and in every department of practical life ;
but we are here concerned with their influence on psychical
research. Throughout the history of the S.P.R. there have always
been those who were cautious about evidence and those who went
further and tried to explain it away ; and within recent years, the
latter tendency has become more pronounced. There are at least
three ways in which the tendency to explain away shows itself in
the records of this Society ; and these are to be found in external
criticism as well. One of these is to inflate the explanatory powers
of chance so that chance in relation to the paranormal is held to be
capable of accounting for a great deal more than it is in the field
of the normal. Even statistical figures do not dispose of this
inflationary tendency. The position is quite irrational ; but
instinct, when it causes the mind to act irrationally, can at the same
time blind the mind to the fact that it is doing so. The same
tendency comes out in the criticism of evidence when the weaker
features are brought into high prominence and the stronger
features thrust into the background. Again, a suggestion is some-
times found running through a criticism of paranormal evidence
which is lacking in definiteness yet sullies it through innuendo,
so that the reader is left with the feeling that something is wrong
somewhere, though it is not clear where. For example, if careful
tests were made with a physical medium, which pointed strongly
to some of the phenomena being genuine, while a single case with
the same medium pointed to fraud, this would be worked into a
suggestion that it undermined all that the medium had produced.
It is, of course, perfectly right that in psychical research the
evidence should be as good as possible ; but there is a point, not
at all easy to detect, at which caution lapses into specious argument.
It may be said that it is perfectly rational to demand a higher
standard of evidence in psychical research than in any other
subject because the paranormal is much more improbable than
the normal. This brings us to the heart of the matter. Is the
paranormal more improbable than the normal? Many people
would say that it obviously is ; for normal things happen all
around us and we understand them and know their laws ; but the
paranormal only happens occasionally ; and when it does it seems
to break the laws of the normal. But there is no cogency in this
360 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
argument unless we make the assumption that nothing can act
into the world from beyond it. If things did act into it, they would
very likely be occasional and might disrupt or modify physical
laws. Thus the paranormal is not improbable unless we have
strong proof that our senses reveal, in principle, the entire universe.
We have no proof of this at all, but we have a strong, instinctive
urge to take it for granted.
When assessing evidence in psychical research the principle
which is surely rational is that the more improbable the alleged
facts are the stronger should be the evidence needed to prove
them. The critical person, who nevertheless accepts flimsy evidence
about things in ordinary life, would probably defend his action by
saying that there was nothing improbable in that for which he
accepted weak evidence ; therefore weak evidence was enough.
The principle is that the strength of the evidence should increase
in proportion to the improbability of that which it supports.
But when we turn to psychical research, or to any subject which
deals with what is held to be improbable, and adopt this principle,
we are at once faced with a difficulty. How improbable are the
alleged facts.? We must surely know this before we can decide on
the standard of evidence required : and there is the added compli-
cation that we cannot fix a standard for the whole of the para-
normal. Some paranormal features may be more improbable than
others, so we must vary our standards of evidence throughout the
subject. Many people would be likely, for instance, to regard
telepathy as more probable than communications from the dead ;
and the phenomena of the seance-room have their own degree of
improbability again. But these differences in probability are not
the main difficulty. The main difficulty is that people are not
agreed as to hozv improbable any of these paranormal features are.
This inserts a subjective element into the problem and prevents
us from deciding beforehand how strong the evidence need be ;
for the improbability of anything depends on general agreement
about it.
Let us ask this question : How improbable is telepathy? Some
people regard telepathy as a matter of course ; others regard it
as not very unlikely, while others, again, react towards it as if they
regarded it as an impossibility, though they probably do not say
so in so many words. How then are we to decide how improbable
telepathy is? If we cannot decide, how can we fix on the standard
of evidence required to prove it? Should we agree with the first
class? If so, hear-say evidence would be sufficient as it is for
countless things in everyday life. Or should we agree with the
middle class ? In that case the quantitative experiments would long
ago have convinced us. Or should we agree with the third class?
1951] Dispersion of Scores in ESP Experiments 361
In that case, why not say outright that telepathy is impossible and
that no amount of evidence can prove it?
This brings us to the heart of the problem. There is no reason
why the universe should not extend beyond the scope of our
senses, and consequently no reason why things of an utterly
strange and incomprehensible kind, such as telepathy and precog-
nition, should not occur there and should not give rise to sporadic
effects within the sense-world. But an ingrained instinct of a
racial type has been instilled into us by nature in order to keep
our minds focused upon the world of our senses ; and this urges
us to reject the possibility of any further extension of the world.
The problem of psychical research is thus not how to obtain
evidence which satisfies the rational mind (supposed to be in a
state of perfect balance) but how to obtain evidence which will
vanquish our racial instinct, which continually attempts to make
our reason explain the evidence away. This is why psychical
research makes such slow progress, why so few treat it seriously,
and why it does not invoke a general enthusiasm for further inquiry.
There are more complications. The power of this racial instinct
varies in different individuals because the human mind is graded,
and elevation towards the intuitive level weakens the hold of
instinct. Also, those who are usually termed credulous placate
this instinct by drawing the paranormal into this world and
'
normalising '
it.
To sum up the present argument : an essential condition for
further progress in psychical research is that those engaged in it
should recognize the existence of this racial instinct and the subtle
part it plays.
DISPERSION OF SCORES IN
ESP EXPERIMENTS
By D. J. West
Last September arrangements were made to test five friends for
ESP after they had taken a drug which was supposed to induce a
euphoric mood. The experiment did not fulfil its intended
purpose, since in no case did the drug produce the desired effect.
The results were nevertheless interesting.
The ESP experiment took the form of a clairvoyance test.
Packs of ESP cards (five of each symbol) were shuffled by hand
and the card order recorded before each session by Miss Elizabeth
McMahan of the Parapsychology Laboratory at Duke University
who was in London at the time. During the session the target
362 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JAN.
pack was enclosed in a small wooden box. The subject was asked
to call out his guesses '
down through '
the pack while the experi-
menter wrote down the calls. After each run of twenty-five calls
the cards were taken out of the box and the calls checked in the
subject's presence. One evening session was devoted to each
subject. At each session twenty-five runs were carried out
excepting at the third session, which was cut short after twenty
runs. The results are summarised in Table I. '
•
TABLE I
Subject Sex
No. of
Rum DeviatioTi
Critical
Ratio
J.N. M 25 + 18 I -So
L. D. M 25 -25 2-50
J. c. F 20 + 13 1.45
Y. A. F 25 - 13 1-30
B. H. F 25 - 14 I -40
Z'CC.R.)^ = 15-25 (5 degrees of freedom). P = -oi
Table I shows a significant dispersion of subjects' scores from
chance expectation, suggesting that some of them used ESP
to score positively while others had a tendency to use their ESP
to avoid the target and produce negative scores.
This avoidance of the target, when the declared aim is to score
as much as possible, might be described as a disguised response.
Other disguised responses have been reported, such as Displace-
ment (that is, hitting a target ahead or behind instead of the one
aimed at), Salience (that is, heaping up of hits at the beginning and
end of a run with a deficiency in the middle), and Consistent
Missing (that is, naming a particular symbol wrongly, such as
calling cross whenever circle is the target). These '
efl^ects
'
may all be disguised responses. It is as if the subjects were like
criminals, guilty of revealing this knowledge of the targets, yet
unable to prevent this knowledge influencing their calls in devious
ways. Of course, this is as yet only speculation.
Alternate positive and negative scoring is a situation which has
been encountered in the investigations of Dr Betty Humphrey and
Professor Gertrude Schmeidler. By the use of psychological
tests predictive of the likely direction of each subject's score, these
experimenters have succeeded in subdividing seemingly null data
into significantly different positive and negative scoring groups.
It occurred to me that if a number of subjects were tested for
ESP under constant and favourable conditions, the positive and
igji] Dispersion of Scores in ESP Experiments 363
negative scoring tendencies of the individual subjects might be
sufficiently consistent to produce a significant dispersion of their
scores. If the number of trials per subject were too few, as in
most of the American work, the effect would not have a chance to
display itself. On the other hand, if the subjects were made to
do too many runs, the proverbial decline phenomenon might set
in and the initial effect be diluted to insignificance by continuous
null results. The effect obtained in the small experiment with
five friends might have been due to a combination of favourable
psychological conditions and choice of a more or less optimum
number of trials.
In order that this possibility could be further explored, Mr
J. Fraser Nicol and Mr Edward Osborn kindly lent me some
ESP data which they collected in 1948-9.1 Their experiments
took the form of card-calling tests with individual subjects under
GESP conditions. The investigators were alive to the desira-
bility of providing an encouraging, unstrained atmosphere. The
TABLE 11
NicoL-OsBORN Data
No. of Runs
Completed
FIRST 16 RUNS SUBSEQUENT RUNS
A .
Subject Sex
Deviation
\
Critical
Ratio
f
Deviation
Critical
Ratio
E. F. F 58 - 4 0-500 + 1
1
0-85
A. K. M 80 - 10 1-250 -3 0-19
W.J. M 16 + 11 1-375
A. N. F 102 -18 2-250 -45 2-42
M. B. F 77 + 10 1-250 + 11 0-70
D. W. M 16 - 10 1-250
E. N. F 58 + 20 2-500 - 10 0-77
L. N. F 30 + 14 1-750 + 6 0-80
J.N. M 26 - 6 0-750 + 8 1-28
M. T. M 27 - 7 0-875 -6 0-90
Total dev. =0 Total dev. = -28
Z{CRy = 22-53 with 10 degrees of ^(Ci?)^ = 10-79, with 8 degrees of
freedom (P=approx. -01). freedom {insignificant).
1 The data also included some obtained by Mr Nicol alone. These are
the experiments which were referred to in the Society's Annual Reports
for 1948 and 1949.
364 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jAN. 1
experimental precautions were adequate. In most of the tests agent 1
and subject were in separate rooms communicating by means of a
signal light. The target sequence was determined by random 1
numbers. The total result for all subjects showed no significant
deviation. (In a total of 15,769 trials the deviation was only 39-2).
Before seeing this data I decided upon sixteen runs as an
arbitrary figure likely to be somewhere near the optimum number 1
of runs per subject. Table II shows the results obtained by those
of the Nicol-Osborn subjects who completed sixteen or more runs.
The table is divided into two sections, the first sixteen runs and
subsequent runs. i
Table II shows that in spite of the null result in the total, and
in spite of the poor performance in later trials, the subjects do
display to a significant extent the same dispersion of scores as was
seen in Table I. A more accurate method of demonstrating the
diff'ering performances of the subjects is the analysis of variance.
Each subject's scores are arranged in a column of figures with sixteen
entries (one for each run) in chronological order. When the ten
subjects' scores are put together a table results with 160 cells. The ji
subsequent course of the analysis is shown in Table III. |l
TABLE III
'
First 16 Runs of Nicol-Osborn Subjects
Source of
Variance
Degrees of
Freedom
Sum of
Squares
Mean
Square
Variance
Ratio, F P
Between
Subjects
(Columns)
9 go-
1
lO-O 2-60 -01
approx.
Within
Subjects
(Rows)
15 6l-2 4-0S I -06 {insignificant)
Residual 135 520-7
Total 159 672-0
The variance ratio in Table III indicates a clearly significant
tendency for the scores of the different subjects to vary, some
above chance, some below.^ The table also shows that there was
* The scores used in this analysis form a discontinuous variable with a
limited theoretical range from o to 25. It is therefore appropriate to use
in place of the raw scores the converted value 6, where 6 =sin^^xj^s-
An analysis of variance was performed on the first 16 runs of each of the
5 subjects in the drug experiment. Using the raw score the variance
ratio between subjects was found to be 3-11, P = 02. Using the angular
transformation F=3-2i, P= 02. The indication is that angular trans-
formation would make no substantial difference.
1951] Dispersion of Scores in ESP Experiments 365
no significant variation within subjects, that is no consistent
variation common to all subjects with lapse of time. In other
words, in the Nicol-Osborn work, as well as in the first experiment
with five subjects, some people were using their ESP to score
substantially above chance, while others were giving a sort of
disguised response, using their ESP to avoid the target and score
below chance.
Over the past year a large mass of data from home-testing
experiments has been collected by Mr G. W. Fisk. The partici-
pants were advised to carry out the tests under GESP conditioris
and to employ hand-shuffied packs. Since there were no investi-
gators supervising the tests, and the experimental precautions were
not rigid, the results, whatever their nature, could never be
regarded as more than suggestive. Any subject who achieved an
initially promising score was encouraged to continue. There were
177 subjects in all, of whom 134 carried out 8 or more runs and 75
completed 16 or more runs. The results, so far as direct hits
were concerned, were null (see p. 369).
TABLE IV
Home-Testing Experiments. First 16 Runs. 75 Subjects.
Analysis of Variance
Source oj Variance D.F. Meati Square F P
Between Subjects 134 4-80 i-ig o-i
approx.
Within Subjects IS 3-03 insignificant
Residual mo 4-02
An analysis of variance was performed on the direct hit scores of
the 75 of these subjects who completed 16 runs. Subsequent runs
were not included. The result, shown in Table IV, gives no
indication of a dispersal of scores as was found in Tables I and II.
The Fisk data were interesting on account of the significant
displacement effects. It is important to emphasise, however, that
although the total score was statistically significant the scoring
average was only very slightly different from chance expectation.
The average deviation per run on forward displacement was
-0-12. This tends to confirm the view that one cannot expect a
large yield from card-calling experiments using unselected sub-
jects without attempting to introduce strong motivation in each of
the participants. In this connection Dr Rhine recently wrote
advising a psychologist who was about to embark upon ESP
366 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
tests to the following effect : It is important to remember that
ESP tests are no mere passive measurement such as you are
accustomed to making. It is likely to help most subjects to chal-
lenge them to get as many as possible of the symbols correct.
Unless the subject is strongly motivated himself, the tests call for
the liveliest methods and strongest pressure the experimenter can
properly bring to bear.
SUMMARY
Other investigators have demonstrated positive and negative
scoring trends in groups of subjects selected by psychological
testing. A small ESP experiments with five friends showed a
significant dispersion of subjects' scores. This led to the sug-
gestion that, given the right conditions and an optimum number
of runs, the positive and negative scoring trends of each subject
might reveal themselves as a significant dispersion of scores with-
out any psychological test having been applied. This idea received
some confirmation from an examination of the data collected by
Nicol and Osborn. No such effect was found in the large body of
data from home-testing experiments. The matter would probably
repay further investigation by experimenters who have suitable
data in their possession.
AN EXPERIMENT IN PRECOGNITION
Reported by G. N. M. Tyrrell
Mrs V. M. Austin, a member of the Society, asked me some time
ago if I could suggest an interesting experiment in precognition. |
I replied that it would be a good thing, I thought, to introduce
'
some process of randomisation between a prediction and its
fulfilment in order to see whether this would prevent the fulfil-
ment from taking place. The following is an epitome of the i
experiment. Mrs Austin took a mascot, a small black cat, to Mrs j
Methven, a medium, and asked her to write down impressions as i
to what would happen to it in the future.^ These she sealed up in
an envelope without looking at them. This was done on 27
September 1946. One or two nights later, Mrs Austin wrote the
names of thirty acquaintances on slips of paper and mixed them up
in a hat. She then got a friend to draw one of them, and the name
1 Mrs Austin tried the experiment on three occasions. The first two,
which were not with Mrs Methven, were failures.
igji] An Experiment in Precognition 367
on it was found to be Miss Graham (pseudonym). The mascot
was at once sent to her, and Mrs Austin opened and read the
medium's statements and filed the paper away. Miss Graham
sailed for a foreign country on 25 March 1949. She was a civil
servant in the employ of a foreign government, and she went to
that country partly in order to arrange her retirement from her
post. In May 1949 she returned to England. She had intended to
travel on the outward journey in a freight steamer alone, but on
hearing that her passage would be paid, she went by liner, where
she met a friend and travelled with her.
Mrs Austin then sent questions based on Mrs Methven's state-
ments to the other twenty-nine persons whose names had been
in the hat in order to find out to what extent these statements
applied to them. Mrs Methven's statement is given in full below
(A). It is followed by list B, which contains the medium's state-
ment as put to Miss Graham by Mrs Austin, with Miss Graham's
annotations shown in italics. List C contains the questions put
to the remaining twenty-nine persons.
A. '
The article in question will be carried to a foreign country.
Will bring good luck. Two people are travelling together. A
great deal of activity. Many new links will be made. I feel
will return to this country again perhaps for retirement. I feel
you must take care of your health, nothing to be anxious about,
chest seems a little difficult at times, able to overcome much with
right thought.'
B. '
(i) The article in question will be carried to a foreign country.
Wrong. (2) Two people are travelling together. Correct.
(3) A great deal of activity. Yes. (4) Many new links will be
made. Yes. (5) Will return to this country again. Correct.
(6) Perhaps for retirement. Yes.''
C. '
(i) Did you travel to a foreign country between September
1946 and June 1949? (2) If so, did you travel with a single
companion? (3) If so, did you return to England within this
period? (4) If so, did your journey bring marked good luck?
(5) If so, did you have an exceptionally active time abroad?
(6) If so, did you make many new links during this period?
(7) If so, was the journey connected with your professional
retirement? (8) Even if you did not go abroad, during this
period, did you retire or make arrangements for your retirement
during this period?'
The chance question was roughly tested by sending list C to
the other 29 persons whose names had been in the hat. The gist
of the result was that in 45 cases statements of the medium applied,
368 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jAN.
while in 158 they did not. The whole of the eight statements did
not apply to any one of the 29. One of the 29 did, however, make
a journey which was connected with retirement. Three out of the
29 had arranged to retire during this period but had made no
journey in connection with it.
It has been suggested that the experiment contained the
following defects in design : (i) that list B given to Miss Graham
to annotate did not correspond exactly with the statement (A)
made by Mrs Methven in that it omitted the references to good
luck and health ; and (ii) that while Mrs Austin divided list B
into six parts, the list (C) given to the twenty-nine persons for
annotation was divided into eight parts and omitted the point
about health. It has been suggested that as a result the applicability
of Mrs Methven's statement to Miss Graham on the one hand and
to the twenty-nine persons on the other cannot satisfactorily be
compared.
While Miss Graham did, in a later letter, make clear that she had
had good luck, it was admittedly a fault that the medium's state-
ment about health was not circulated. This statement did not
apply to Miss Graham, and was in fact the only mis-statement made
by the medium. For the first item in list B, which was there
marked wrong, was afterwards found to be right. Miss Graham
had inadvertently taken the mascot abroad with her in an out-of-
the-way pocket of a bag and only discovered this after her return.
As regards the first part of point (ii) : the two additional questions
in list C were (4) and (8). The former, which concerned good
luck, is dealt with above ; (8) would not have been applicable to
Miss Graham as it was known that she had gone abroad.
Perhaps it should be added that Mrs Austin told me in a letter
that when Mrs Methven was presented with the cat-mascot, she
first made statements about the former environment of Mrs
Austin, who had, up to then, been its owner. These statements
were correct. Also, during the winter which followed the pre-
sentation of the mascot to Mrs Methven, Mrs Austin had a long
illness of combined bronchitis and influenza, to which the state-
ment about health might quite well refer.
I think Mrs Austin is to be congratulated on the achievement
of this experiment and it is to be hoped that, despite the doubt
between chance and the paranormal in this case, more work on
precognition along these lines will be done.
Home-Testing ESP Experiments 369
HOME-TESTING ESP EXPERIMENTS
A Preliminary Report by G. W. Fisk
Since quantitative experiments in extrasensory perception started
in Great Britain, a mere handful of subjects has been found who
have been able to maintain a consistently high rate of scormg. It
was in an effort to discover promising subjects that in January 1950
arrangements were made for the carrying out of simple ESP tests by
members of the Society in their own homes. An instruction sheet
was drawn up, and this, with numbered scoring sheets and packs of
ESP cards, was sent to every group of two or more people who were
willing to give each other and their friends card-calling tests. It
was recommended that Agent and Percipient should be separated
by a screen measuring at least three feet square or by its equivalent,
that the Experimenter should signal by tapping when the Agent
looked at each card, and that 200 calls should be made at each
session. It was suggested that any subject scoring ninety-two or
more (or sixty-eight or less) in 400 guesses should be regarded as
promising, and that further tests with him should be carried out.
As the experiments were not supervised, it is, of course, legitimate
only to regard the results as suggestive, however significant they
may appear statistically.
Backward
Displacement
(-1)
Target
Hits
(0)
Fonvard
Displacement
( + 1)
Total Hits 13116 14026 13081
Expectation 13416 1397s 13416
Deviation -300 + 51 -335
Critical Ratio 2-89 0-48 3-24
P •004 •32 •001
Up to the end of October 1950, 177 subjects had been tested,
and the total number of runs (twenty-five calls to each run) was
2,795. No individual subject was found whose scores were con-
sistently significant either on the target or in either displacement
direction. Taking the results as a whole, however, there were
significant negative scores on both + i and - i displacement. An
examination of a substantial sample of the data for + 2 and - 2
displacement indicated that a negative trend, similar to that dis-
covered in the + 1 and - 1 scores, was present, though not to a
significant degree.
355470
37° Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
Statistical tests have not yet been applied, but by inspection it
appears that the negative deviations on displacement were well
distributed throughout the data and were not due to the anomalous
performances of a few subjects. It must be emphasised that
'
closed '
packs were used and that the scores in the direct target and
displacement positions are not statistically independent of each
other. The close conformity of the direct hits with chance expecta-
tion is interesting. In experiments conducted by different volun-
teers and in a variety of conditions, one might have supposed that
spurious deviations would be likely to arise from such normal
causes as lack of care in recording, sensory leakage, etc.
The search for promising subjects still goes on. I hope that any
readers of this Journal—\N\vtXhex members of the Society or not
who have not taken part in these experiments but who wish to do
so will get in touch with me (6 Ditton Grange Close, Ditton Hill,
Surrey).
THE FRAUDULENT MEDIUMS BILL
On Friday, i December, this Bill was read a second time in the
House of Commons. Proposed by Mr Walter Monslow (Labour,
Barrow-in-Furness) and seconded by Mr T. J. Brooks (Labour,
Normanton), the Bill, in the words of the preamble, is designed to'
'
Repeal the Witchcraft Act, 1735, and to make, in substitution for
certam provisions of section four of the Vagrancy Act, 1824,
express provision for the punishment of persons who fraudulently
purport to act as spiritualistic mediums or to exercise powers of
telepathy, clairvoyance or other similar powers '. It contains the
following clauses:
I.—(i) Subject to the provisions of this section, any person who—
[a) with intent to deceive purports to act as a spiritualistic medium
or to exercise any powers of telepathy, clairvoyance or other
similar powers, or
in purporting to act as a spiritualistic medium or to exercise
such powers as aforesaid, uses any fraudulent device,
shall be guilty of an offence.
(2) The foregoing subsection shall apply only where a person acts for
reward; and for the purposes of this section a person shall be deemed
to act for reward if any payment is made in respect of what he does,
wfiether to him or to any other person.
(3) A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable on
summary conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty pounds or to imprison-
ment for a term not exceeding four months, or to both such fine and
such imprisonment, or on conviction on indictment to a fine not
exceeding five hundred pounds or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding two years or to both such fine and such imprisonment.
1] The Fraudulent Mediums Bill 371
(4) No proceedings for an offence under this section shall be brought
in England or Wales except by or with the consent of the Director of
Public Prosecutions.
(5) Nothing in subsection (i) of this section shall apply to anything
done solely for the purpose of entertainment.
2. The following enactments are hereby repealed, that is to say—
{a) the Witchcraft Act, 1735, so far as still in force, and
[b) section four of the Vagrancy Act, 1824, so far as it extends to
persons purporting to act as spiritualistic mediums or to
exercise any powers of telepathy, clairvoyance or other
similar powers, or to persons who, in purporting so to act
or to exercise such powers, use fraudulent devices.
3 This Act may be cited as the Fraudulent Mediums Act, 1950.
(2) This Act shall not extend to Northern Ireland.
Members who spoke in favour of the Motion were Mr Arthur
Colegate (Con.), Mr George Deer (Lab.), Mr C. W. Gibson (Lab.),
Mr Leslie Hale (Lab.), Mr Douglas Houghton (Lab.), Mr James
Hudson (Lab.), Mr B. Janner (Lab.), the Rev. Gordon Lang
(Lab ), Mr L. M. Lever (Lab.), Lt-Col M. Lipton (Lab.), Mr
R. J. Mellish (Lab.), Mr T. C. Pannell (Lab.), Mr George Rogers
(Lab.), Mr William Ross (Lab.), Mr H. N. Smith (Lab.), Lt-Cdr
R H. M. Thompson (Con.), Mr S. P. Viant (Lab.), Mr David
Weitzman (Lab.), Col G. E. C. Wigg (Lab.), the Rev. G. S.
Woods (Lab.). The Home Secretary, Mr Chuter Ede, stated that
the Bill would be left to free discussion and a free vote. He hoped
'
that in some form or other we may through this measure be able
to release some of our fellow citizens from an indignity to which
at present they feel they are subjected '.
The Council of the Society considered the Bill at their meeting
on 7 December. They expressed their entire concurrence in the
declared objects of the Bill, namely, to protect honest mediums
from prosecution under out-dated Statutes which are in their
terms offensive to the whole profession, and at the same time firmly
to check fraudulent mediumship.
The Society has for its object the examination in an impartial
spirit of various real or supposed faculties usually called para-
normal, with a view to bringing within the domain of scientific
inquiry those aspects of human personality left unexplored by
other branches of psychology. To carry out this difficult and
important enterprise, the psychical researcher must be granted the
same freedom to pursue his investigations unmolested as is enjoyed
by other scientific workers. The mediumistic situation is not as
simple as the debate in the House would suggest, and presents no
clear-cut alternative between genuine spirit communication and
372 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
fraud. The psychical researcher must feel himself secure to state
without fear or favour just what his opinion is of any of the
incidents under his examination. This, however, necessarily
involves making statements that are critical of the powers or
alleged powers of mediums. Since it has hitherto been assumed
that the existence of the Acts now sought to be repealed has been
a bar to the bringing by mediums of libel actions against researchers,
the Council felt that the repeal of these Acts, without the provision
of some safeguard in this respect, might make it difficult for a
researcher to publish the results of his investigations and his
comments thereon without running the risk of an action in the
Courts. As psychical research is a highly specialised subject, and
the proper examination of alleged paranormal phenomena requires
a hfetime of study, it was suggested that an ordinary Law Court
might be an unsatisfactory tribunal for the decision of such ques-
tions. The Council therefore consulted Mr K. E. Shelley, K.C.,
himself a member of the Society, on this matter and he advises
as follows:
While it is undoubtedly of the greatest importance that psychical
researchers should have full liberty to publish the results of their
investigations and to state their conclusions and even their conjectures
with the utmost freedom, in my opinion the ordinary law of libel
affords them sufficient protection for this purpose. As the law stands,
no criticism can make its author liable to damages provided it is fair
and honest, that it is made without malice, and that it contains no mis-
statement of fact. The circumstance that the criticism reflects the
personal beliefs (or disbeliefs) and the prejudices of the author does not
matter. All the many reports of investigations contained in the various
publications of the Society that I have read fulfil these requirements
and, quite apart from the Acts now proposed to be repealed, no success-
ful action for libel could have been brought in respect of any of them.
As the Society certainly intends to maintain its existing policy in regard
to criticism, I see no reason for it to seek any special protection. Of
course, nothing can prevent any person who thinks he has a grievance
from instituting legal proceedings, but in my opinion this is an ad-
vantage rather than the reverse. Mediums will know that they have
the same rights as any other person and can protect themselves from
unfair and malicious attacks, and therefore will be the more ready to
submit themselves to impartial investigation. Any action brought in
respect of a proper criticism is bound to fail (it is surprising how our
Courts can master technical details of every kind when these are
properly explained) and an unjustified action that deservedly fails may
uhimately do so much good by informing the public of the pitfalls and
difficulties in this branch of knowledge that the trouble and expense of
defending the action would be a valuable investment.
In view of the above advice, it is not felt that there are grounds
for making representations in regard to the Bill.
Reviews 373
REVIEWS
Spuk: Irrglaube oder Wahrglaube? Vol. I. By F. Moser.
Foreword by C. G. Jung. Baden bei Zurich, Gyr-Verlag,
iqco. S42 pp. 9 plates. ,
t->
This book is the first of two volumes on the poltergeist by Dr
Fannv Hoppe Moser, a Swiss biologist, who became interested in
occult phenomena in 1914 when she assisted at a sitting for table-
turning and levitation with the Berlin medmm, Mrs Fischer. In
her earlier book, Der Okkultismus (Munich, 1935), Dr Moser gave
a general survey of the whole field, and although she tried to be as
objective as possible, it was clear that she was of the opinion that
many so-called psychic phenomena were facts m Nature, and
could be investigated by the methods of science
In her present work Dr Moser has set herself the task ot in-
quiring into the evidence for poltergeist activity, and for this
purpose she has examined afresh the records of some cases dating
from 1663 to 1946. The accounts of most of these cases are m
German, and among them is the very curious story 01 the pheno-
mena observed by Professor C. G. Jung during his week-ends in a
haunted farmhouse in Buckinghamshire in 1920. It is a pity that
these events were not reported to the Society for Psychical Re-
search at the time of their occurrence, as, from the notes now
printed thirty years later, it is clear that Dr Jung made no effectual
attempts to inquire into the objectivity of the sounds, whilst his
colleague Dr X. went to bed with a loaded gun as his companion.
As an opening to her survey, Dr Moser has chosen the famous
JoUer case which began in Stans, a small place south of Lucerne,
in i860 and was recorded by the la^vyer, Melchior Joller m a
pamphlet, now very rare, which was issued in Zurich in 1853.
The phenomena began with raps, as is so often the case
Toller thought little of them, but when one day in 1861 his small
son was found in a fainting condition his father was disturbed to
hear that the fit was brought on by raps followed by the alarming
appearance of a white misshapen form. Gradually the phenomena
increased in number and complexity. The raps on the floor were
now as loud as if they had been caused by a heavy mallet, and
I
^
A second pamphlet, apparently in reply to nom.al eKplanati^^^^ which
had been advanced, was issued the same year. The
^^f^^'J^P ^"'^^^
buted by Daumer to Joller himself) is still in ^.^P^^^"
Moser is at
pains to reject Daumer's attribution; she also discusses the authorship
of the preface to Toiler's own pamphlet. In ^^P^/
;^;:f^;°'^^;
which came from the library of Baron Carl Du ^^^^'^e preface
assigned to Perty, which seems to me very probable and which may have
been written in by Du Prel himself.
374 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
furniture jumped after every blow. Grey shapes were now and
then observed flitting about, and soon the case became a sensation
In view of the public clamour a kind of committee of three persons
was appointed, including the chief of the local police On
investigation little occurred, but when the Joller family was
requested to withdraw from the house the phenomena immediately
ceased, only to recommence the moment it returned and actually
to increase in violence. A massive walnut table was overturned
and an object like a three-tailed cloth appeared and disappeared.
Vague shadows as of waving hands were observed, and greyish
forms were occasionally seen gliding about. Many pieces of
furniture were knocked over ; an apple danced about on the
floor, and apparitions were seen by the children both in the house
and garden Finally, the Joller family moved elsewhere and the
house was locked up.
Dr Moser has taken a great deal of trouble to supplement
Jo ers account with other contemporary records and the re-
collections of those still living. Ahhough her industry is to be
commended, it does not seem that much was gained from the
scientific point of view. Indeed, the publication of these cases is
mainly of comparative, academic, and historical interest, and like
so many other writers Dr Moser is inclined to be overwhelmed bv
the enormous weight of testimony to poltergeist activitv She
now and then seems to take the attitude of the '
ten thousand-
people-cant-be-wrong '
school without fully appreciating the
basis on which others maintain their attitude of scepticism.
Moreover, I suspect that Dr Moser has had but little practical
experience in the field. Had she had such experience she would
know how utterly different are the accounts of umrained observers
from those furnished by skilled investigators, and how the most
transparent and simple little deceptions may appear as major
phenomena which, at first sight, seems quite inexplicable When
Dr Jung maintains, as he does on p. 260, that parapsychology would
do well to make use of the psychology of the unconscTous, he
IS preaching to the long-since-converted. Indeed, could the
Jungian psychologists be persuaded to listen to and learn from the
parapsychologist, they would sometimes refrain from claiming as
examples of the paranormal incidents in the consulting-room fhat
they cannot explain.
^
It is this inability to explain that lies at the root of Dr Moser's
general attitude and it is connected with her failure to realise the
meaning and relevance of much of the material with which she is
dealing The very complexity of poltergeist cases make them very
difficult to appraise when all we have are written records from
sources which are often suspect in themselves. For apart
iQji] Reviews 375
altogether from conscious fraud (which may also be present),
we have to contend with the misinterpretation of normal events,
which are then fitted into what is supposed to be a supernormal
framework, and thus add false notes to the overall picture.
Dr Moser's book, therefore, is of value not so much from the
point of view of the practical observer as from that of the historian
whose work in this field is also to be esteemed as it enables the
student to compare what has been recorded in the past with what
is being observed in the present. From the case histories here
collected, the reader will be able to learn something of the less
spectacular poltergeist records from house and stable and note
how, in many instances, those favoured failed even to make the
most simple kind of inquiry into the origin of the manifestations.
Thus we have the case of the Bavarian Professor of Physics, who,
for six months, noted the racketings of a poltergeist in the attic of
the house in which he lived, and did not even take the trouble to
investigate upstairs. Then we have the case of the student of
chemistry in whose apartment a poltergeist raged for some time.
Yet, when one day she discovered that over one and a half pints of
'
milk '
had been apported and spilt in one of her rooms, she did
not even go to the point of having the liquid analysed !
Can it be
that many of these events are to be explained by assuming that,
at the time, they did not strike those participating in them in the
same light as they did later when describing them to collectors of
ghost stories? It is for the reader of Dr Moser's book to judge for
himself, and in this he will not be wasting his time. We shall look
forward with much interest to the second volume where the
authoress has promised to provide a commentary and discussion
of the fact recorded in the first.
E. J. Dingwall
The Illusion of Immortality. By Corliss Lamont. New York,
Philosophical Library, 1950. Second Edition, xvii, 316 pp.
4 plates. $3.95.
This is a learned and well-argued defence of the thesis that man
is mortal and that there is no life beyond the grave. Most of the
arguments are along familiar lines but they are well presented, and
generally the case on the other side is fairly considered. Having
read Dr Lamont's book, I remain unconvinced by his thesis but I
do not think this is due to any defect in the presentation of his
case. Its weakness lies not in its arguments but in the system of
assumptions on which the arguments rest. If the universe is
merely a physical system in which human bodies have evolved
from unicellular organisms by a blind operation of the laws of
i
376 jfoiirtial of the Society for Psychical Research [jAN.
natural selection, it is indeed unlikely that somewheie in that
process an immortal soul was added to man's body, and that in
some corner of this naturalistic universe there are to be found a
spiritual world and a God who on rare occasions interferes with
the natural order.
There is, however, another possibility : that God and the
spiritual world are primary and important, and that the natural I
world is a creation by God for the purpose of attaining spiritual
ends. From such a point of view it is not unreasonable to suppose
that man is now and eternally a part of that spiritual world, or even
that the purpose of evolution was to provide a fit instrument for
the human spirit. Such a possibility is not considered by Dr
Lamont. Our choice between the possibilities as to a naturalistic
or a religious view of the universe must be made on the evidence ;
the question cannot be decided merely by looking at it from one of
the alternative points of view.
The decision is, of course, difficult ; that is why there is much
difference of opinion on the matter. The assessment of evidence
depends on one's valuation of revealed religion and on one's
opinion of the finality of the scientific point of view, as well as on
one's opinion of the kind of evidence obtained through mediums.
Dr Lamont seems to abandon his attempt to be fair in considering
the latter kind of evidence. There are obvious difficulties in
judging how far the results of seances support a belief in a future
life, but consideration of this evidence demands more than re-
ference to '
dear departed grandfather's indulging himself in
table-rapping, playing weird tunes on cheap musical instruments
or telling the secrets of his past to strange women mediums '.
Even less happy is his reference to experimental psychical
research. Dr Lamont repeats criticisms made by Professor
Jastrow fourteen years ago of the work carried out at Duke
University which were of doubtful validity when they were made
and are certainly inapplicable to the work that has been carried out
there since that time. He also states that Rhine's successes in
ESP have not been repeated in other countries, ignoring the
contributions of Soal, Tyrrell, and Whately Carington in this
country alone.
R. H. Thouless
The Message of Fatima. By C. C. Martindale, S.J. London,
Burns Gates & Washbourne, 1950. vii, 183 pp. ids. 6d.
Fr Martindale's study of the events of 1917, which transformed
Fatima from an obscure Portuguese village to a centre of pilgrimage,
is a quiet, scholarly, scrupulously accurate piece of research which
ig^i] Reviews 377
should be of considerable value to those mterested in the psychical
phenomena involved.
He distinguishes carefully between the content of the message
given to the three children, calling the peoples of the world to
prayer and repentance, and the forms through which they received
it. He points out that the human mind is bound to clothe its
intellectual perceptions in whatever imagery is most familiar to it
—
and that that of a Portuguese peasant accustomed to baroque
churches is sure to differ from that of (say) an American, or an
Indian, or a Greek. (The same truth may be exemplified in a more
familiar instance by considering how differently an Englishman and
a Chinese will '
see '
and paint an identical objective landscape-
witness Chiang Yee's delightful pictures of various Oxford scenes.)
Fr Martindale has also carefully separated the evidence given in
contemporary documents—the repeated cross-examinations of the
children, the reports of their parents, the newspaper accounts of
how enormous crowds saw the sun '
spinning '
in the sky, and
emitting a series of coloured lights, ending with a '
very ugly yellow
'
—from the later, adult writings and reflections of Lucia, the nun
who was the only one of the three who lived to grow up.
None of the original oddities is smoothed away—the suddenness
of first vision, with the flash of lightning directing the children's
attention to a young girl standing on top of a small tree ;
the fact
that the little Jacinta wanted to offer her some bread and cheese ;
the sound heard at one later vision by a woman, and at another,
later still, by a man, neither of whom saw or heard anything else
that seemed unusual, like '
the buzzing of a bee '
or '
a horsefly in a
bottle '
; and the fact that on the 13th October, when most of a
crowd assessed at 70,000 strong were awed and terrified by the
unexpected apparent movements of the sun, and '
unbelievers
'
such as the editor of a freethinking newspaper, and a stolid,
irritated English domestic brought by her employers saw all the
phenomena, several devout persons in the assemblage perceived
nothing at all. This, by the way, seems to be an argument against
Fr Martindale's tentative hypothesis that the appearances might
be explained by '
natural causes '
;
just as the fact that they were
observed from two places some distance away seems to argue
against the theory of a collective hallucination brought about by
suggestion from one person to another.
This seems likely to remain the standard English work on the
subject. Its original sources are quoted (in translation) at con-
siderable length. No attempt is made to attach any dispropor-
tionate importance to the form of the visions or the locutions, or
to the solar '
miracle '
; and the Preface provides a close and
interesting analysis of the process through which the mind receives.
37^ Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
symbolises or projects, rationalises, '
tidies ' and may even
occasionally misinterpret in detail a spiritual experience. It is
fascinating to see how closely this description corresponds with
what is thought to occur with psychical experience.
Readers should realize, of course, that the book is not written as
a piece of psychical research, but in a spirit of deep devotion which
holds the service of exact and detailed truth to be an integral
part of religion.
Renee Haynes
Journal of Parapsychology. Durham, N.C., Duke University
Press. §1.25.
Vol. 14, No. 2, June 1950
In an Editorial on '
Parapsychology and Biology ', Professor
Rhine discusses the problems raised for parapsychology by such
performances as migration and homing. He also considers the
bearing of parapsychological findings on basic biological theory.
J. G. Pratt and Esther B. Foster contribute '
A further study of
ESP displacement in relation to hits and misses '. They find
further evidence that a subject may show a characteristic reaction
to the fact of success in an E S P experiment although he is not
told of his success. The reaction described is a tendency to
produce a pair of misses of the target card, particularly after a
direct hit.
There is an account by R. Rose of a preliminary PK experiment
in which a positive deviation was obtained which was not signi-
ficant. The experimenter intends to carry on further with an
improved experimental design.
A criticism by C. C. Stevens of Rhine's book The Reach of the
Mind is followed by an interesting correspondence between Pro-
fessor Rhine and Mr Stevens in which each tried to clarify his
point of view.
M. Skibinsky has tried out the suggestion that ESP subjects
will score more highly on targets that are personally significant to
them. His results do not support this expectation. The score of
his subjects on family names was significantly lower than their
score on the symbols in the ordinary ESP pack.
Vol. 14, No. 3, September 1950.
The Editorial deals with the shifting scene in parapsychology.
Professor Rhine here discusses the present field of interest in
experimental parapsychology and also the further problems for
which fruitful methods of experimental attack have not yet been
devised.
jg^jj
Reviews 379
An article by Dr Soal and Mr Bateman gives an account of
experiments done with Mrs Stewart as subject when agents were
working in opposition and in conjunction. In both cases it ap-
peared that Mrs Stewart took her responses from one agent, and
was not hindered by another agent trying to communicate a
different card, or helped by other agents trying to communicate
the same card.
Dr Humphrey has carried a stage further her work on separating
successful and unsuccessful subjects by the use of tests of per-
sonality. By adding to the results of an expansion-compression
test and the mid-range and extreme scorers on Stuart's Interest
Inventory a further measure derived from items of the Interest
Inventory, she finds that she can make a better separation of high
and low ESP scorers than the two previous measures gave in
combination. -
r t-u f i
Dr Focht gives an account of the opinion of bhrentels on
prophecy. It is that future events are known to the over-souls of
human groups and that the knowledge of these over-souls is some-
times tapped by individuals. This is obviously one of many
possibilities; it is not easy to see, however, in what way this
hypothesis could be subjected to experimental test.
The number ends with an acute review reprinted from Mind by
Professor Price of Rhine's book. The Reach of the Mind.
R. H. T.
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research.
Vol. 44, No. 4, October 1950. New York, A.S.P.R., Si. 50.
George H. Hyslop gives an interesting account of the philosophy
of James H. Hyslop and of his contribution to psychical research.
A history of the S.P.R. by W. H. Salter is based on an address
he gave to the American S.P.R. in April 1950.
There is an important and fascinating article by Dr C. M.
Cooper, M.D., entitled '
An Inherited Baffling Perception and its
Uncovering '. This is an admxirable little study of the process of
unconscious cerebration and the problem of '
hunches ' which
must be read by everybody interested in paranormal cognition.
38o Journal of the Society for Psychical Research
CORRESPONDENCE
'Retroactive PK' and the
Classification of Phenomena
Sir—Apart from its direct aim, Mr Mundle's paper in Pro-
ceedings (XLIX, pp. 61-78) is valuable in indicating the difficulties
that beset psychical researchers in using current systems of
classihcation, in which the concepts of precognition and PK plav
a promment part. Not only is the main theme of his paper the
problem of deciding in practice whether both precognition and
PK are basic irreducible concepts, or whether apparent cases of
one can always be reduced to cases of the other, but also he shows
in passing (p. 62) that the term '
precognition '
at least is unfortu-
nate, implying as it does that the phenomenon is a form of know-
ing, an implication which seems not to be justified by our present
knowledge of the facts.
The general problem is by no means new. Throughout its
history scientific psychical research has been faced with the diffi-
culty of classifying phenomena which tend most perversely to
overlap, to masquerade as that which they are not, and to be shv
of discovery in isolation. Two main schemes of classification
have been used, and neither has been entirely satisfactory. The
first, that adopted by F. W. H. Myers in Human Personality, is a
scheme dictated by the phenomena themselves and using mainly
psychological concepts. This becomes inadequate as soon as it is
realized that while the surface manifestations, e.g. of trance
mediumship or psychometry, may have a close family likeness the
sources upon which they draw vary enormously, perhaps from
mere hypermnesia to the activity of discarnate spirits The
second scheme, that more commonly used or at least assumed
today, IS based partly on experimental experience and partly on
our common a ^non notions of time, causation, cognition, matter,
IT' M A/r
^^herne encounters difficulties of the type brought
out by Mr Mundle, and I would question here whether we are
right to accept these a priori factors so readily. It is sufficiently
established that the world of the psychical is a very queer one-
how queer we have as yet no means of telling. The danger of
using our everyday a priori framework is that it may lead us to
Ignore certain possibilities which if followed up would give us a
better understanding of what we have to deal with That this
particular framework is not necessary to our thinking is shown by
its partial abandonment in modern physics.
Theory must not run too far ahead of the facts. But it is idle
to pretend that we can ever :vholly divorce fact from theory, or
iQji] r . Correspondence 381
refrain from building hypotheses until we have had a good look
at the bare data. We have to view the facts in the light of some
theory, but we can at least realize that it is a theory and make it as
explicit as possible, hoping by so doing to reveal its weaknesses and
its potentialities.
My aim here is to show that by extending the scheme followed
by Mr Mundle we find room for a new type of phenomenon not
so far considered. If such a phenomenon is to be found, it should
not be very difficult to produce prima facie evidence for its
existence. On the other hand, if such prima facie evidence is dis-
covered, it will increase the problems of using this type of scheme
at all. Difficulties of distinguishing between phenomena will be
multiplied, and it may be necessary to abandon the scheme
altogether.
As things are, Mr Mundle recognises two main groups of
phenomena, one cognitive and the other conative. The cognitive
group consists of mental events related to other events, mental or
physical, in the past (retrocognition), the present, and the future
(precognition). In the conative group we have an apparently
different type of mental events, bearing a relationship of a ditferent
kind to physical events (P K) or mental events (telepathic suggestion)
in the present or near future. (Mr Mundle does not mention
telepathic suggestion, but it fits in naturally here.)
I am being purposely vague in my description of these two
groups. An attempt at better definition would only lead to dis-
tortion. It will be seen that as they stand the two groups are not
on all fours. While the cognitive group covers past, present and,
paradoxically, future, the conative group, in accordance with
normal experience, covers only present and future. But if we
admit the possibility of knowing what has not yet happened, we
should also be prepared to consider that of causing what has
already happened. Or, to put it another way, if a future event can
'
cause '
a present mental event, why cannot a future mental event
'
cause '
a present event?
I suggest, therefore, that experiments should be conducted for
prima facie evidence for what might be called '
retroactive PK '.
I cannot find that this has yet been done. In The Reach of the
Mind, for instance, Rhine says :
'
Displacement in ESP tests has
become a well-established phenomenon, even though it is not very
common. ... It could not occur in PK in the same way, because
of the difference in techniques '
(p. 127). Now this is perfectly
true of the classical PK experiments. The target is not changed
often enough for a displacement of this type to be noticeable
—though it is interesting that Rhine mentions indications of a
displacement in the other direction, e.g. the '
lag effect '
of Pratt
382 Journal of the Society Jor Psychical Research [jan.
and Woodruff. But experiments with more frequent changes of
target would provide an opportunity for such an effect to appear.
If it did appear, however—if, for instance, we found something
similar to the - i displacements of telepathy—we would at once
come up against a difficulty similar to those discussed by Mr
Mundle. Such an effect could be explained as a combination of
straight PK plus precognition of the next target, assuming that the
choice of target was not predetermined. (If it were, the alternative
explanation would be even simpler—direct telepathic or clair-
voyant knowledge of the target.) And I do not see that this
difficulty can be entirely overcome. In all types of experiment
some alternative explanation would be possible, though not
necessarily probable. The most we could do would be to devise
experiments to which arguments of the type used by Mr Mundle
on pp. 75-6 would apply, i.e. where to explain the effect produced
as being due to retroactive PK would be far more simple and
plausible than any other. Such experiments are not easy to
devise ;
but we might be lucky enough to find, for example, a
subject who scored well on retroactive PK but got no results in
direct precognitive experiments.
It is not of much value to consider such possible experiments in
detail unless and until we have at least prima facie evidence that
retroactive PK does in fact occur. It is sufficient for my present
purpose to point out that, as in the cases considered by Mr Mundle,
here too it would be very difficult to bring about an experimental
separation of the various possible factors involved. And this,
I suggest, may be due at least in part to the inadequacy of our
conceptions of these factors.
It seems to me possible that we are going astray in assuming a
complete separation between knowing and willing, cognition and
conation. There are other reasons for this besides the experimental
problems so far considered. First, while we seem in ordinary life
to know very well what we mean by knowing and willing, the
attempts of philosophers and psychologists to analyse these con-
cepts have been singularly unsuccessful. Hence we cannot
say with any confidence what the essential features of an act of
knowing or an act of willing are. This is paralleled on the other
side by the fact that it is also very difficult to give an account of
what goes on in an '
act of precognition '
or an '
act of PK '.
We
are therefore on very shaky ground in trying to classify these
latter as cognitive and conative acts respectively.
Secondly, what little we do know about the psychology of psi-
phenomena seems to give some importance to the imagination.
And the imagination may be regarded from different angles as
either active or passive, as cognitive or conative, or as a neutral
jg^jj
Correspondence 3^3
ground between the two. It is true that in laboratory tests for
ESP and PK the imagination plays little part, and is normally
by-passed for direct motor-action. But outside the laboratory the
importance of the imagination is often brought out. One method
of achieving success in telepathy seems to be—in rather unsatis-
factory metaphorical terms—to make the mind a blank, and then
allow images to drift into it ; and, on the other hand, to achieve a
desired resuk by supernormal means (i.e. PK, etc.), it sometimes
seems to be sufficient to imagine it happening. In both cases,
images play an important part, and there is nothing that can be
termed an act of cognition in the one case or an act of willing in
the other.
All this tends to show that there may be something unsatis-
factory for psychical research in adopting without question our
everyday categories of cognition and conation. It might be of
advantage, at least for a while, to try to forget these divisions, and
to make our thought and our language as non-committal as possible.
On the analogy of '
psi-faculty '
we might talk of alpha-, beta-
phenomena, etc., giving a definition of the phenomenon as far as
possible in positivist terms. There remains the danger that we
would still regard these terms as nothing but new names for our
old friends precognition, etc., but the more this danger is recog-
nized and allowed for, the less formidable it will be. We may by
this means be able to emancipate ourselves from our earlier ways
of thinking, and allow the facts to dictate to us a new and more
suitable scheme of reference.
Pamela M. Clark
ERRATA
Journal, November-December 1950
In the review of Into the Unknown, a description of the panel of
investigators was printed as follows (p. 345) :
'
Three are members
of the Society, Lord Amwell, Dr Bendit, and Mr L. A. G. Strong.
The other five would probably disdain for themselves the descrip-
tion of expert in psychical research '
The author of the review
points out that he wrote 'disclaim ', not '
disdain '.
In the last sentence of the review of In Search of the Miraculous
(p. 352),
'
hypothesis '
should read '
hypotheses '.
We apologise for these errors.
384 Jnunml of ihc Society /or Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOLUME XXXV
The index to Volume XXXV of the Journal (January 1949 to
December 1950) is being prepared and will be circulated with the
issue for March-April.
GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
JOURNAL
,
.
, i
of the ,
Society for Psychical Research
Volume XXXVI No. 663 March-April 1951
SELECTIVITY IN ESP EXPERIMENTS
By C. W. K. Mundle
I AM going to discuss a point raised by Dr Thouless in his contri-
bution to the symposium on a programme for the next ten years
of research which appeared in the Journal of Parapsychology}
Thouless wrote: '
I suggest investigation of the conditions of
singularization. Positive results in ESP or PK experiments
require that the subject should have reacted to (or acted on) one
particular object or set of objects and not others of the same kind.
The problem of how it happens that the experimental object
is thus picked out seems to have attracted little attention except
for the restricted case of what is called " psychometry." '
In dis-
cussing this problem I shall use the word '
selectivity '
instead of
'
singularization ', partly because it is more familiar, but also
because it seems to me more neutral with respect to the question
whether the role of the subject is active or passive. (We speak
not only of people actively selecting things, but also of machines,
e.g. radio sets, being passively selective.) I would state the prob-
lem, then, as being to ascertain the conditions which influence
selectivity. I shall only consider the problem as it arises in ESP
experiments. The problem appears much less conspicuous in
PK experiments in which subjects have usually been able to look
at the objects they were trying to influence.
Now one—and perhaps the most important—virtue of Caring-
ton's theory of telepathy is that it offers us an explanation of the
subjects' selectivity. I know of no other theory which does this.
Physicalist theories are notoriously incapable of explaining why a
subject should respond to a radiation emanating from a certain
brain (or pack of cards) rather than that from any other brain (or
pack) within the same distance. On the other hand, to invoke
1
'
A Program of Parapsychology ',
J. ParapsychoL, vol. 12, no. 2 (June
1948) p. 117,
38s
386 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
'
rapport ' between subject and agent as a necessary condition of
telepathy is, in the absence of a theory, merely to give a label to
one of the facts which requires explanation.
As is well known, Carington explains telepathy by supposing
(i) that an idea of the target object becomes associated in the
mind of the agent (and/or that of an experimenter) with a second
idea ; (2) that this second idea (which he calls a K-idea) occurs,
as a result of normal processes, in the mind of the subject ; (3) that
these two events tend to produce jointly a third event—the subject's
thinking of the target object. On this theory, the factor which
makes the subject select (or selective to) the target is the K-idea
in the mind of the agent (or experimenter). It is difficult to under-
stand how an idea could perform this role if it were one which was
simultaneously being entertained by people not participating in the
experiment ; but Carington pointed out that there will always be
one idea which will be entertained only by those who are parti-
cipating, or, if entertained by non-participants, will not be so
important to them—namely the idea of '
this experiment '. We
must admit that Carington's theory does not take us as far as we
would wish, for we still cannot understand how one person's
associations could influence another person's experience in the
conditions in question—we do not know whether any mediating
processes need occur, nor what their nature would be. Neverthe-
less, our starting point in investigating selectivity ought surely to
be an attempt to submit Carington's theory to the test of experi-
ment. To do this I should suggest that we carry out some such
experiments as the following :
(i) Using a subject who, like Mrs Stewart, has obtained good
results with several agents, we could employ two or more of these
agents working in opposition (i.e. attending simultaneously to
diflFerent target-cards). At the start of each series each agent
would be given a different code-name and/or picture to be asso-
ciated with the ensuing targets, and one of these code-names would
be selected at random and given to the subject. We should thus
be deliberately providing a K-idea to supplement the idea of '
this
experiment '. Precautions would be taken to ensure {a) that
neither the subject nor the experimenter controlling the subject
received any sensory clues regarding the other code-names in use
and the allocation of code-names to agents ; and {b) that neither
the agents nor the experimenter(s) controlling the agents received
any sensory clues regarding the code-name given to the subject.
If we found a regular tendency for the subject to get significant
scores only on the cards being thought of by the agent with the
corresponding code-names, this would support Carington's theory.
(ii) Alternatively, or in addition, we could employ only one
195 1]
'
Selectivity in ESP Experiments 387
agent, who would work simultaneously with two series of targets,
each series being associated by the agent with a different code-
name, one of which had been given to the subject.
It will be noticed that the former experiment is very similar in
design to one which Dr Soal performed recently with Mrs Stewart.
(This is described in § 33 of his Myers Lecture The Experimental
Situation in Psychical Research.) Soal carried out two series, each
of 400 trials, with two agents working in opposition. In the first
200 trials of each series Mrs Stewart was informed that there were
two agents, but not that they were working in opposition. Dr Soal
tells us that '
the pooled results on the 400 trials show that with
neither agent was her score significant '. In the second 200 trials
of each series, Mrs Stewart was told the name of one of the two
agents and was given to understand that this agent would be
working alone. In this case, the pooled results show a highly
significant score on the targets of this agent with a chance score
on the targets of the other agent. Now these results are just what
Carington's theory would predict, but the support which they give
to this theory is unnecessarily weak. (We must of course remember
that Soal was not trying to test Carington's theory.)
Let us consider Soal's conclusion—that the results of the above
experiments '
illustrate the importance of conscious orientation in
telepathy experiments '. This statement is somewhat vague, for
what is meant by '
conscious orientation '
? Presumably Soal
meant by this the subject's adjusting herself to the experiment by
imagining the agent at work. Conscious orientation, in this sense,
would involve her possessing knowledge of two kinds : [a) being
acquainted with the person who acts as agent, i.e. having, by nor-
mal social intercourse, established a personal relationship with
this person, or, at least, being familiar with the appearance of this
person ;^ {b) knowing that it is this person (identified by name or
other verbal description) who is acting as agent. Was knowledge
of either of these kinds necessary or favourable to Mrs Stewart's
success? Soal's above-mentioned experiments do not enable us
to answer this question.^ The main interest of Carington's theory,
* The subject might of course be familiar zvith the appearance of the
person who acts as agent through having seen a photograph, without
having seen this person '
in the flesh '. Whether the former is an ade-
quate substitute for the latter is a matter for experiment. To simphfy
exposition I shall ignore this complication in what follows.
* Since this paper was written, a report of some long-distance experi-
ments with Mrs Stewart has been published by Bateman and Soal in the
S.P.R. Journal (Vol. XXXV, No. 659). The results are highly relevant
to the question I am considering here ; for in the Cambridge-Richmond
series, in which she was not acquainted with the agents, Mrs Stewart
failed completely, whereas in the London-Antwerp series, in which both
388 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
in this context, is that it suggests that such knowledge may not be
relevant to a subject's selectivity. When Soal told Mrs Stewart
the name of one of the agents (suppose it was '
John Brown ') this
name may have been functioning, solely as a K-idea, in Carington's
sense ; that is to say the name '
John Brown '
may have made
Mrs Stewart select (selective to) the targets being thought of by
John Brown solely because these targets were associated in the
mind of John Brown with his ideas of himself and of his own name.
Mrs Stewart's being acquainted with this person called '
John
Brown '
and/or her knowing that it was this person who was
acting as agent may have been irrelevant to her success.
It seems important to try to ascertain the relevance of the fac-
tors to which Soal seems to have been referring when he spoke of
'
conscious orientation ', for it seems to be commonly taken for
granted that these factors are necessary, or at any rate favourable
conditions of telepathy. I am not sure that I understand what
psychical researchers mean by '
rapport ', but I suspect that some,
when they use this term, have in mind a theory to explain telepathy
—a vague theory which might be expressed by saying that '
rap-
port '
means '
direct psychic contact '
between two (or more)
persons whose bodies are not manifested to each other's senses.
On this view, it would be natural to assume (i) that it is a necessary
condition of the establishment of such rapport that the persons in
question should be previously acquainted with each other, and/or
(ii) that the more intimately they are acquainted the easier it will
be to establish such rapport. Adopting Carington's theory would
not imply that we should drop the word '
rapport ' ; we could still
say that rapport is a necessary condition of telepathy, but rapport
would become a much more precise concept, to be defined not
vaguely in terms of '
direct psychic contact '
—which, incidentally,
suggests that it is a matter of all or none—but rather in terms of
two (or more) minds entertaining the same (or similar) ideas,
which is a matter of degree. On this view, a high degree of
rapport might hold between people who were not acquainted with
each other, yet the minimum degree of rapport—two people
'
sharing '
a single idea—might be a sufficient condition of tele-
pathy, if, for example, the idea in question was important to each
of them and was not '
shared '
by anyone else. One reason why
Carington's theory deserves serious attention is that there are
of the agents were her close friends, Mrs Stewart was highly successful.
This strongly suggests that, for Mrs Stewart, being acquainted with the
agent is a necessary condition of success. Unfortunately there was another
factor which may, the experimenters tell us, have adversely affected the
Cambridge-Richmond results, namely inadequate synchronisation of the
stop-watches.
igji] Selectivity in ESP Experiments 389
records of spontaneous cases in which '
conscious orientation
'
seems to have played no part whatsoever. I have in mind the
type of case where a subject receives an impression of an accident
involving no persons with whom the subject was acquainted or
connected (e.g. the case discussed by Mr Tyrrell in Proc. S.P.R.,
Vol. XLVIII, Part 173, pp. 89-91). In such cases I can think of
no explanation of the subjects' selectivity except that provided by
Carington's theory.
We require, then, to test the relevance to the subject's selectivity
of the following factors :
{x) the subject being acquainted with the person(s) who act(s)
as agent(s) ;
{y) the subject knowing (by name or other description) the
identity of the person(s) who act(s) as agent(s).
I suggest, therefore, that the experiments which I proposed earlier
be performed under each of the following conditions :
(1) with X and y both fulfilled.
(2) with X but not y fulfilled.
(3) with neither x nor y fulfilled.
We might for completeness try variation (4) i.e. with y but not x
fulfilled. It is, however, difficult to see how the name (or a
description) of an agent with whom the subject was not acquainted
could be relevant except as a K-idea, in which case the only dif-
ference between conditions (3) and (4) would be that in the former
case two K-ideas would be used, in the latter three. (I am
counting the idea of '
this experiment ' as a K-idea, as well as the
code-name.) I should not expect conditions (3) and (4) to yield
diff'erent results, but if they did it might be worth investigating
whether the description of the agent which was given to the subject
had to be a unique description (i.e. applicable to no one else) in
order to affect the results. (In some cases a person's name is a
unique description—Whately Carington's probably was, and this
point may be relevant in applying his theory to his own experi-
ments with drawings in which many of the subjects were not
acquainted with him.)
One further factor which might with profit be varied in the
above experiments is the subject's knowing the location of the
agent(s). We already have one experiment whose results suggest
that this factor is irrelevant (reported by McMahan and Lauer in
Journal of Parapsychology, Vol. 12, No. i). This result requires
confirmation.'^
^ Some further confirmation has now been provided in the long-
distance experiments with Mrs Stewart. (Bateman and Soal, op. cit.,
pp. 266-7.)
39© Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
We may learn from such experiments that for different subjects
different sets of conditions are necessary for or favourable to
selectivity. If, however, we found any subjects able to select the
appropriate target under conditions (3), this would be an impor-
tant conclusion and one which would call for a thorough testing of
Carington's theory in all possible respects. One of the next steps
would be to test the sub-laws of the association theory—the laws
of recency and frequency. Carington found quantitative evidence
that these sub-laws had been fulfilled in some of his experiments
with drawings, and this should be checked in other experimental
situations. In connexion with the law of frequency, there would
of course be two different factors to be investigated : , ,
{a) the effect of repeating the conjunction of the idea of the
target and the K-idea in the same agent.
{b) the effect of increasing the number of agents in whose minds
these ideas are associated. '
I shall now consider a possible criticism. It might be said
that any adequate theory of selectivity must be applicable to clair-
voyance as well as telepathy, whereas Carington's theory applies
only to telepathy. This criticism raises two issues. The first is
whether it is possible to discriminate between '
pure clairvoyance
'
and '
pure telepathy '. The second is whether Carington's theory
could be applied to explain selectivity in cases of '
pure clairvoy-
ance '. I shall briefly consider each of these issues.
Regarding the first issue, I am inclined to think that in their
recent attempts to isolate '
pure telepathy '
and '
pure clairvoy-
ance '
experimenters may have been pursuing a will-o'-the-wisp.
At any rate, there is one difficulty which they do not yet seem to
have considered. It is generally (and rightly) agreed that if, in a
telepathy experiment, an agent or experimenter at any time
mentions aloud the target-object or a code from which this might
be inferred, this utterance, being a physical event, constitutes a
potential object for the subject's clairvoyant faculty. It seems to
be taken for granted that if an agent or experimenter merely
thinks of the target or a code without mentioning it aloud, there is
no physical event constituting a potential object for clairvoyance.
This assumption seems to be unwarranted in view of the well-
known fact that our thinking is usually (some psychologists say
always) accompanied by certain physical events, notably the small
movements of one's tongue and larynx which occur as one silently
talks to oneself, and which systematically resemble the larger
movements which occur in these organs when one utters the
same words aloud. To admit this is not to adopt the (to my
mind unacceptable) view which identifies thinking with sub-vocal
1951] Selectivity in ESP Experiments 391
speech. But if we grant that sub-vocal speech movements are
normal unconscious concomitants of our thinking, how are we to
eliminate these as possible^ objects of clairvoyance? In the recent
'
pure telepathy '
experiments in which the agent has employed
a code relating target-faces to numbers, the agent has presumably,
in the process of memorising the code, run over it several times in
unspoken words. This difficulty may be surmountable—e.g. if the
agent who uses the code only speaks a language not understood by
the subject—but it is not my present purpose to explore such
avenues. It is at any rate certain that attempts to isolate telepathy
and clairvoyance involve us in some very complicated problems.
We need not, however, postpone investigation of selectivity until
each of these problems is solved or found to be insoluble. We
may be able to advance a long way in understanding selectivity by
means of experiments whose design is relatively simple. In the
'
telepathy '
experiments which I proposed above, I think we
should not at present bother about trying to eliminate all possi-
bilities of clairvoyance, but should employ the GESP^ method.
Regarding the second issue, it does not follow that because
Carington's theory was devised to explain telepathy, it could not
be used to explain selectivity in cases of clairvoyance. The fol-
lowing questions can be distinguished and may require different
answers : .
, ,
. .
{a) What makes the subject select (selective to) the object
which an experimenter has decreed to be the target, e.g. this pack
rather than another?
{b) How does a subject succeed to a significant extent in iden-
tifying the nature of the target-object, e.g. the order of the target
pack?
(These questions could be distinguished, though it does not seem
necessary to do so, in dealing with the facts usually attributed to
telepathy.) When these questions are distinguished in considering
clairvoyance, the former can be answered by saying that the subject
' Professor H. H. Price has pointed out to me that lip-reading has to be
learned and is difficult to learn, and that the sort of clairvoyant larynx-
reading which I am postulating would be much more difficult to learn.
This must be granted. All that I am claiming is that since this sort of
larynx-reading cannot be ruled out as impossible, this undermines the
view that recent experiments have re-established conclusively the occur-
rence of '
pure telepathy '.
^ GESP stands for '
General Extrasensory Perception and is applied
to experiments in which the target cards lie successively before the agent's
eyes. Thus the subject may get his information either by clairvoyance
from the cards themselves or by telepathy from the agent's perception
of the cards.
392 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
selects the pack in question because it is (most strongly) associated
in the mind of an experimenter with his idea of ' this experiment '.^
Now obviously we can test the applicability of Carington's
theory to the selectivity of subjects under conditions which have
usually been called clairvoyant. Let us not bother at this stage
about excluding all possibilities of telepathy, but employ a method
like DT^ calling. We can arrange an experiment in which the
experimenter controlling the target (E C T, as we may call him) uses
two or three alternative target packs, each associated by him (and
only by him) with a certain code-name, while the subject, located
elsewhere, is given one of these code-names. If such experiments
yielded the predicted results, there are several factors which it
would be interesting to vary one at a time : j . ...
(1) the subject being acquainted with ECT.
(2) the subject knowing by description the identity of ECT.
(3) the subject knowing the location of ECT.
(4) ECT knowing the location of the target pack corresponding
to each code-name.
Since the above was written, an important article by Soal and
Bateman has appeared in the Journal of Parapsychology (Septem-
ber 1950) giving a detailed report of all the experiments performed
with Mrs Stewart up to July 1949 in which two or more agents
have been used in opposition or in conjunction. Much of this
material has not been previously published, and the results display
some new and interesting features, notably :
(i) When Mrs Stewart has been working successfully with
agent No. i, and agent No. 2 is introduced acting in opposition to
No. I, Mrs Stewart continues to work with No. i and '
ignores'
No. 2. This feature recurred consistently in a series of experi-
ments in which Mrs Stewart was fully informed as to the identity
of the agents and their roles and in which agent No. 2 was a person
with whom Mrs Stewart had previously worked very successfully.
^ Professor Price has pointed out to me that what I say here would
apply only in the experimental situation, for in a case of spontaneous
clairvoyance there would be no experimenter decreeing that a certain
object is the target. I should, however, recommend that in examining
spontaneous cases of apparently pure clairvoyance we should look for a
person who might be performing this function of the experimenter,
i.e. a person in whose mind the clairvoyantly perceived object might be
associated with a K-idea. Could we be certain in any given case that no
such person existed?
DT stands for '
Down Through ', and is applied to experiments in
which the subject guesses the order of the pack from top to bottom, the
order not being observed by anyone until the subject's guesses are
completed. This method does not eliminate precognitive telepathy.
195 1] " Selectivity in ESP Experiments 393
(ii) It appears that when several agents are used in conjunction
(i.e. each attending simuhaneously to the same target), Mrs Stew-
art works with only one of these agents and '
ignores '
the others.
This very interesting conclusion is an inference based on two
types of experiments :
{a) in which a single agent is used for the first 200 calls and a
second agent acts in conjunction with the former for the second
200 calls. There were three experiments of this design. In two
of them Mrs Stewart got a significant score for the first 200 calls,
and the conjunction score for the other 200 was at approximately
the same level. In the third case, the person who was used as
agent No. i appears to have been a bad agent (independent
evidence of this was obtained). The scoring for the first 200 calls
was at chance-level, but was significant for the second 200.
{b) in which the same two (or three) agents are used throughout
a block of 400 calls, their roles alternating every 50 calls between
opposition and conjunction. If we take the first four experiments
of this type, we find that when the agents were in opposition
Mrs Stewart obtained in each case a significant score with one
agent and chance scores with the other(s). If we take the pooled
results of these four experiments, we find that the conjunction
score and the highest opposition score are both highly significant.
The conjunction score is in fact the lower (209/800 against
231/800)
—
but there is no significant difference between these scores
(P = o.i6).
One cannot do justice in such a brief summary to the material
contained in this article. However, these latest results do not,
so far as the writer can see, provide any grounds for choosing
between the two theories of '
rapport '
which have been discussed
earlier—the theory of '
conscious orientation '
on the part of the
subject, and the theory suggested by Carington. The disclosure
of these new facts does, however, accentuate the problem discussed
in this paper, and provides a further challenge to us to try to ascer-
tain the factors which influence selectivity in psi-phenomena.
Department of Philosophy, C. W. K. Mundle
University College, ^
Dundee. '
• > ,
:
-
A2
394 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
PERROTT STUDENTSHIP IN PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH AT TRINITY COLLEGE,
CAMBRIDGE
The following communication has been received from the
Electors to the Perrott Studentship in Psychical Research :
The Electors to the Perrott Studentship are prepared to receive appli-
cations from candidates.
Psychical Research is defined, for the purpose of the Studentship,
as '
the investigation of mental or physical phenomena which seem
prima facie to suggest {a) the existence of supernormal powers of cog-
nition or action in human beings in their present life, or {b) the persis-
tence of the human mind after bodily death
The Studentship is open to any person who shall have completed his
or her twenty-first year at the time when the election takes place. A
Student may be re-elected once, but not more than once.
The Studentship is tenable for one year, and the Student will be
required to devote a substantial part of the period of his tenure to inves-
tigating, in consultation with a Supervisor to be appointed by the
Electors, some problem in Psychical Research. The Student shall not,
during his tenure of the Studentship, engage in any other occupation to
such an extent as would in the opinion of the Electors interfere with his
course of research. Residence in Cambridge is not required.
The Studentship will be of such value, not exceeding £t,oo, as the
Electors may award after considering the nature of the research which
the candidate proposes to undertake.
Applications from candidates should be sent to The Secretary,
Perrott Studentship Electors, Trinity College, Cambridge, not
later than 30 April 1951. Intending candidates should write to the
Secretary for further details before applying.
The election to the Studentship will take place in the Easter Term of
195 1, and, if a candidate be elected, his tenure will begin at Michaelmas
following the election.
The Perrott Studentship was established in 1940 out of a
bequest left to Trinity College, Cambridge, for that purpose by
Frank Duerdin Perrott as a memorial to Frederic W. H. Myers.
Myers, like Edmund Gurney and Henry Sidgwick, also founders
of the Society, was a Fellow of Trinity.
The Studentship was first held by the late Whately Carington,
who began his tenure in the Michaelmas Term of 1940 and who
was engaged in experiments on the paranormal cognition of
drawings. The Studentship was next held by Dr S. G. Soal for a
year from Michaelmas 1948, during which time he carried out
ESP research with his subject Mrs Gloria Stewart.
1951] . ,
;s. 2:'* : v '
Reviews . . .
395
REVIEWS
Psychical Research, Ethics and Logic. Supplementary Vol-
ume XXIV to Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society. Lon-
don, Harrison & Sons, 1950. 231 pp. 21s.
At the annual joint meeting of the Mind Association and the
Aristotelian Society, held at Bristol in July 1950, there was a
symposium on the relevance of psychical research to philosophy.
The three contributors to it were Mrs M. Kneale, Mr R. Robinson,
and Mr C. W. K. Mundle. Their papers will be found on
pp. 173-231 of the present volume. Before discussing them, it
may be well to point out that during the last twenty years there
has been a change in the attitude of professional philosophers
towards their own subject. For good or ill, many of them now
think that the traditional problems of philosophy are in the end
problems about language, and are to be solved (or else shown to be
nonsensical) by methods of linguistic analysis. This linguistic
conception of philosophy has not yet spread very far beyond
professional circles, and may not be familiar to all readers of the
Journal.
In the first paper, Mrs Kneale argues that even if we accept the
linguistic conception of philosophy, the facts discovered by
psychical researchers are still relevant to philosophical problems ;
what they show is that common sense and scientific terminology
are not, in all respects, adequate for the description and explana-
tion of all known empirical facts (p. 176). Thus the physical
phenomena of psychical research call for some revision of the
terminology of physics, as the phenomena of magnetism did long
ago. Again, the mental phenomena show that a purely Behaviour-
istic terminology is inadequate for describing all occurrences in
human beings. When we consider telepathy, we can see that an
'
inner life '
terminology is needed as well. PK shows us that the
old problem of the relation of mind and body is not so dead as
Behaviourists think; it compels us to enquire into the relation
between the '
inner life '
terminology and the '
material object
'
terminology. It follows that the hypothesis of survival is not
meaningless, as an over-indulgence in Behaviouristic terminology
might lead us to suppose. But in all these cases, Mrs Kneale thinks,
the chief service of psychical research to philosophy is to save us
from '
forgetting the obvious '. Thus, it ought to have been
obvious to anyone who reflects on mental images, or hallucina-
tions, or eidetic images, or voluntary action, that an inner life
terminology is needed in any case. Psychical research mainly
396 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
provides an a fortiori argument for something we ought to have
known already.
I think that Mrs Kneale, in her laudable endeavour to conciliate
the Linguistic Analyst, has over-stated her case. Can this be the
only lesson which the phenomena of clairvoyance have for philo-
sophers ? Perhaps—if clairvoyance were at all analogous to ordin-
ary sense-perception. But surely it is not. (Mrs Kneale merely
mentions clairvoyance in passing and does not discuss it.) And
what of precognition Here again Mrs Kneale takes the same over-
modest line. She points out that precognition is not foreknowledge,
but only fore-imaging. She thinks, or at least hopes, that no very
radical revision of the conceptions of Time and Causation will be
needed ; and she is sure that the phenomena of precognition give
no support to mystical doctrines or to theories about ' the nothing-
ness of Time '. Even so, can it really be maintained that precog-
nition merely provides us with an a fortiori argument for accepting
a terminology which we ought to have accepted in any case?
On the contrary, it seems to break the rules of all the existing
terminologies, physical or psychological, introspective or Behavi-
ouristic. It is not altogether surprising that Mr Robinson accuses
Mrs Kneale of '
damning the importance of psychical research for
philosophy with faint praise '.
Mr Robinson himself, however, thinks that even this faint
praise is unjustified. If the linguistic conception of philosophy
is accepted, he can find only one thing in the literature of psychical
research which could instruct a philosopher ; and that is the
terminology used by psychical researchers themselves. For
example, when one calls a coincidence a case of telepathy one is
not explaining it ; one is denying the possibility of explaining it.
According to Mr Robinson, the whole point of a phrase like
'
ESP '
is to denote a process in which information is acquired
by no means at all. Again, Mrs Kneale does not explain precog-
nition by calling it '
fore-imaging '
; she is only telling us that
there is no explanation of the fact that Mr A. had an image resem-
bling X before X actually occurred. And supposing we did some
day discover the means by which telepathy occurs, most psychical
researchers would cease to be interested in telepathy. For it is
only '
meansless '
cognition which is relevant to the metaphysical
and theological theories which most of them wish to maintain.
But what if we reject the purely linguistic conception of philo-
sophy.' (Mr Robinson, himself, I think does wish to reject it.)
Then he is willing to admit that psychical research is relevant to
philosophy in two important ways. First, if supernormal cog-
nition does really occur, we shall have to conclude that Empiricism
is false. Empiricism tells us that no synthetic proposition is to
1951] Reviews 397
be accepted unless it is supported by the evidence of the senses ;
and in ESP, if it does really occur, we are acquiring factual infor-
mation without the evidence of the senses. (As Mr Mundle points
out later, it would be very odd if Empiricism could be refuted by
empirical facts. Mr Robinson's definition of Empiricism is surely
too narrow. In any case, the classical Empiricists also laid great
stress on the evidence of introspection. Mr Robinson seems to
have forgotten the importance which Hume attached to '
impres-
sion of reflection i.e. introspective data.)
Secondly, Mr Robinson also admits that psychical research is
relevant to what he calls '
the theory of man '. In his view, we
have to choose between two philosophical theories of human nature:
on the one hand, the Platonic theory, i.e. the dualistic interaction
theory, which regards mind and body as two distinct entities ;
on the other, the Aristotelian theory (' the soul is the form of the
body ') whose modern form is philosophical Behaviourism. By
the end of the nineteenth century, it seemed that the question was
settled for good and all. The biological sciences had apparently
shown that Plato was wrong and Aristotle right, to the confusion
of the theologians and other religious-minded persons. But then
it occurred to the Platonic party that the scientists might be
defeated by their own weapons—by appeal to empirical facts.
Their plan was to re-establish the Platonic theory of human
nature, not by theological or metaphysical arguments, but by
scientific ones. And that, according to Mr Robinson, is what
psychical research consists of. Accordingly, he is not surprised
to find that psychical researchers attach so much importance to
'
the attempt to communicate with men who are not at the time
attached to any specimen of homo sapiens '
(p. 202).
Mr Robinson admits that the psychical researchers have suc-
ceeded in collecting a number of '
queer coincidences '. But he
still adheres to the Aristotelian theory of human nature. Is this
irrational.? He claims that it is not. No one can be expected to
explain all the queer coincidences which happen from time to
time. And the psychical researchers themselves cannot explain
them ; to label them '
telepathy ', '
precognition ', etc., is not to
explain them. If one accepted the Platonic theory of human
nature on such grounds, one would be falling into the fallacy
called the argument from ignorance
—' this proposition must be
true because we do not know for certain that it is false '.
I cannot but think that here Mr Robinson proves too much.
If he were right, no theory could ever be refuted, or even weakened,
by adverse empirical evidence. The adverse evidence could
always be written off as just a '
queer coincidence '
—inexplicable
but needing no explanation. It does not follow either that if the
398 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
'
Aristotelian '
theory were refuted by empirical evidence, the
'
Platonic '
theory must be true. There may be other alternatives.
For example, the Buddhist analysis of human nature is neither
Platonic nor Aristotelian.
In the last page or two of his paper, Mr Robinson takes back
his admissions that the coincidences collected by psychical re-
searchers are at any rate queer. On the contrary, the emotional
aura which they have for him is '
boredom and banality '. An
alleged communication from Henry Sidgwick about the relation
of mind and body strikes him as '
here and there ridiculous but
otherwise a dead bore '
(p. 204). To him, the reports of psychical
researchers are like dead cliches or pointless schoolboy jokes. He
cannot go to five tea parties without hearing at least one '
super-
normal '
story—fully authenticated, of course. In his view the
trouble with the data of psychical research is not that they are too
strange and queer to be believed ; on the contrary, they are so
insufferably tedious that one can hardly give one's attention to
them.
I think that this sort of emotional reaction is not at all uncom-
mon, especially among highly-educated people ; and psychical
researchers should give more thought to it than they have, if
they want to understand and remove the '
resistance '
which their
data often meet with. Indeed, they would do well to read the
whole of Mr Robinson's paper with care. It is a very good state-
ment of views which are widely held, but not nowadays often
expressed.
Mr Mundle's paper is very interesting indeed. But it is also
very long and cannot be adequately summarised in a paragraph or
two. I shall confine myself to four of the most important points
in it.
First, when we ask whether psychical research is relevant to
philosophy, what do we mean by '
psychical research
'
} Accord-
ing to Mr Mundle, we may mean (i) the observational data, or
(2) the primary hypotheses, or (3) the speculative theories which
have been suggested for co-ordinating the primary hypotheses.
If we mean the observational data, he thinks that these can be
described in Behavouristic terminology, and indeed, must be.
The experimenter's data consist in '
the percipient's overt be-
haviour and the written record produced thereby '
(p. 209). And
even in spontaneous cases, the private experiences of the percipi-
ent are not evidence, unless they result in some kind of overt
action which can be confirmed by witnesses or documents.
'
Psychical researchers accept as evidence only what Behaviourists
can acknowledge as hard facts '
(p. 209). I should have thought,
on the contrary, that in the spontaneous cases the percipient's
195 1] Reviews 399
overt actions are only of interest because they tend to show that the
private experiences did, in fact, occur at or about the time when the
percipient says they did.
Secondly, with regard to the relation of mind and body, some
philosophers think that psi-phenomena, if they prove nothing
else, do at least prove that Epiphenomenalism is false. Mr Mundle
does not agree. For example, what we take to be telepathy may
be a causal transaction between a brain event in the agent and a
mental event in the precipient (it would then be a sort of clairvoy-
ance). And surely this account of the matter is compatible with
Epiphenomenalism.'' I think that it is only compatible with a new
and extended version of Epiphenomenalism. For in ordinary
Epiphenomenalism the cause of a mental event in Mr A. is an
event in Mr A.'s own brain, not in someone else's. In any case,
it is hard to see how precognition could be compatible with any
form of Epiphenomenalism. And clairvoyance of the ordinary
kind, where the '
object ' is not a brain event but some non-physio-
logical entity like a Zener card or a sealed-up letter, would not be
compatible with it either.
Thirdly, Mr Mundle asks us to consider a new way of classifying
psi-phenomena, though he does not ask us to accept it. In the
new classification we abandon the terms '
mental ' and '
physical ',
and replace them by '
human '
and '
non-human '
respectively.
Then we have (i) non-chance relations between human events and
other human events in the same or in different persons ; (2) non-
chance relations between human events and non-human events.
The first head would cover '
inter-personal ' P K, as well as tele-
pathy. The second would cover ordinary PK, clairvoyance, and
poltergeists.
This new classification would no doubt save us from begging
questions about the relations between mind and body, and would
please the Behaviourists whom Mr Mundle is so anxious to
conciliate. But there are disadvantages in it too. Precognition
would fall partly under the first head and partly under the second ;
and the most important thing about it—namely, its reference to
the future—would tend to escape our notice. Again, the Survival-
ist explanations of mediumistic communications would be ruled
out by definition, unless events in discarnate minds are counted as
'
human events '
; and if they were, the advantage Mr Mundle
hopes to gain, of conciliating Behaviourists and other '
tough-
minded '
thinkers, would be lost. Moreover, there is some
evidence that ESP occurs occasionally in non-human animals ;
and this would be ruled out also.
Fourthly, Mr Mundle distinguishes between two ways of inter-
preting psi-phenomena of the '
mental ' kind (to return to the
400 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
traditional classification). In the one, the fundamental concept is
causatioji; in the other, it is cognition. If we accept the causal
interpretation, he thinks we shall have to re-define the term
'
causal connection '. At any rate, we must not so define it as to
make spatio-temporal contiguity part of its meaning, nor in such a
way that the proposition '
a cause precedes its effect ' is analytic.
Moreover, '
is happening '
must not be so defined that it is equi-
valent to '
is coming into existence '. For in precognition (on the
causal interpretation) a future event has effects. It must therefore
be in existence, though it is not yet happening.
Mr Mundle then points out that psychical researchers have
produced explanations of the queer occurrences which they study,
despite Mr Robinson's denials. They have done it, as other
scientists do it, by postulating '
interphenomena ' to make the
observed phenomena intelligible. Thus they try to explain
telepathy by the theory of a Common Unconscious, i.e. by postu-
lating mental interphenomena ; and they conceive the Common
Unconscious as an inter-personally effective store of traces or
engrams. Mr Mundle does not think much of this explanation.
He objects that there is no reason to call this inter-personal, trace-
bearing medium '
mental '. Perhaps not. But if it is physical,
it will not do what is wanted, unless we go back to a Radiation
Theory of telepathy, which Mr Mundle has already rejected
(pp. 221-2). I think he has ignored another relevant point.
It may be argued that an unconscious of some kind has to be
postulated in any case, in order to explain the data of abnormal
psychology ; and we call it '
mental \ faute de mieux, because our
explanation will only work if processes analogous to conscious
planning are supposed to go on in it. If so, it is economical to
make use of the postulated unconscious for explaining psi-
phenomena too (since we have to put up with an unconscious in
any case) ; and we can do this by supposing that processes in the
unconscious are inter-personal. Moreover, the Freudian mechan-
isms of repression and symbolic distortion are ready to our hands
for explaining the queer and devious ways in which psi-contents
manifest themselves in consciousness and in behaviour.
However this may be, Mr Mundle thinks we may do better if we
interpret psi-phenomena cognitively instead of causally. If cog-
nitive relations really do span spatial and temporal gaps, as
philosophers suppose, will not this give us just what we want?
The cognitions we should have to postulate would be themselves
uncognized (i.e. subliminal) ; so they too would be '
interpheno-
mena '. I am not sure that this cognitive explanation really differs
so much from the causal explanation which Mr Mundle has
rejected. Once we descend below the conscious level—as we
1951] >'v- ,;, .-. .. Reviews . 401
have to, on both theories ahke—the distinction between '
being an
awareness of ' and '
being an effect of '
seems to lose much of its
sharpness ; and the lower we descend (if this spatial metaphor is
appropriate) the less sharp the distinction becomes. Moreover,
if we apply the '
cognitive '
theory to telepathy, we shall have to
allow that there is such a thing as unconscious inspection of the
contents of another mind ; and this surely is something for which
we can find no analogy in the sphere of conscious cognition.
Mr Mundle leaves it to the audience to decide whether these
issues are among the ones which philosophers ought to discuss.
But he himself clearly thinks that the answer is '
yes '
; and he is
clearly right.
H. H. Price
Harry Price : The Biography of a Ghost-hunter. By Paul
Tabori. London, Athenaeum Press, 1950. viii, 316 pp.
II plates. 15s.
Harry Price's long and varied career as an investigator of the
physical phenomena of psychical research deserved a biographical
record, and the choice of Mr Tabori to compile it was a happy
one. In his skilled hands a great number and variety of incidents
are described in an interesting way. He lays proper stress on
Harry Price's wide reading, unflagging energy, mechanical skill,
and knowledge of methods of deception, but he makes it clear that
he is not blind to some peculiarities of temperament which
brought Harry Price into conflict not only with persons whose
views of psychic phenomena were opposed to his own, but with
others who shared in general his opinions and interests and were
anxious to co-operate with him. In fact, for the official biography
of a man recently dead, the book is remarkably and commendably
frank.
The book is very largely based on '
the vast correspondence he
[Harry Price] carried on, much of it unpublished and unpublish-
able ', but for an informed judgment on some of the controversial
matters dealt with by Mr Tabori there are other documents that
the reader would be well advised to consult. For example, as to
Harry Price's proposals for the amalgamation of the self-styled
'
National Laboratory of Psychical Research '
with the S.P.R., he
should read our Journal, vol. XXVII, p. 25, and for the much
debated '
exposure '
of Rudi Schneider he should put side by side
the letters to Rudi printed on pp. 113 and 116 of this book with
the facts stated by Lord Charles Hope in S.P.R. Proceedings,
Vol. XLI at pp. 284-91. We regret that Mr Tabori appears to
endorse Harry Price's preposterous claims to have contributed by
402 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
his researches to the foundation of the Perrott Studentship at
Trinity College, Cambridge, and the acceptance by New College,
Oxford, of the reversion of the Blennerhassett Trust.
Mr Tabori pays a graceful tribute to the help he received in
preparing the book from Mrs Goldney and Dr Dingwall, who are
familiar with many of the events related in the book. On some of
these, particularly the Borley case, a more complete report based
on a wider range of evidence than seems to have been accessible
to Mr Tabori would be welcome. May we hope that they will
see their way to provide it.''
W. H. S.
William James : A Selection from his Writings. Edited
with a commentary by Margaret Knight. Harmondsworth,
Penguin Books, 1950. 248 pp. is. 6d.
Members of the Society for Psychical Research will be interested
to read this book on our distinguished former president, Professor
William James. James was a vivid and self-revealing writer and
the greater part of the book is composed of judiciously chosen
extracts from his own writings. These are preceded by a bio-
graphical account which helps one to understand the family
situation that made James the intellectual adventurer that he was.
While the extracts are mostly from his psychological writings and
not from any contributions he made to psychical research, the
biographical sketch and the writings make clear why he was
attracted to psychical research. Born into an argumentative
family, he was always impatient of accepted orthodoxies and had a
quick eye for the unexpected fact. That psychical research did
not fit into the scheme of the biological psychology which he
himself taught was for him a reason for being interested in it
rather than ignoring it as a more conventionally minded man
might have done. As in his study of religion in his Gilford Lectures,
he brought to bear on psychical research an inquiring and open
mind with a tendency to scepticism which led him to question the
dogmas of orthodox science no less than any new and unexpected
phenomena.
R. H, Thouless
Enthusiasm: A Chapter in the History of Religion with special
reference to the XVII and XVIII Centuries. By R. A. Knox.
Oxford, Clarendon Press, 1950. viii, 622 pp. 30s.
'
When strong currents of spiritual emotion, aroused by some
religious crisis, sweep through a multitude of human hearts,
1951] '
Reviews 403
physical reactions of an abnormal kind are liable to occur as their
byproduct ' writes Mgr Knox in this learned and stimulating
study of fanatical sectarianism over eighteen centuries. The
physical reactions displayed in some of the revivalist movements
chronicled are, indeed, odd enough ; men and vi^omen are shown
expressing their sentiments by leaping, shaking, rolUng, trembling,
talking gibberish, swelling up, and (my own favourite) '
barking
demurely '
at those who preached to them.
As bizarre, and of greater interest to psychical research, are the
borderline phenomena which sometimes accompanied these mani-
festations. The most notable are perhaps those seen in the pro-
phesying of the Camisard Huguenots after the Revocation of the
Edict of Nantes ; and those of the Jansenist convulsionaries of
Saint-Medard, of which Dr Dingwall has written a short account.^
A particularly fascinating point about the earlier movement is
that its '
prophets '
were apparently taught some sort of psycho-
physical technique. '
M. du Serre . . . collected fifteen children
of either sex from the peasantry of the Vivarais, and trained them
in the art of prophecy. His school was at Mont Peyra in the
Dauphine ... he initiated his pupils, exercised by two or three
days' fasting, into the four grades of prophecy' which were known
as '
I'Avertissement, le Souffle, la Prophetic and le Don '.
Those interested in the natural history of contemplation may find
it significant that a pupil who had reached the stage of '
le Don '
frequently abandoned his former preaching activities ; activities
whose normal pattern ran thus: '
The prophet beat his head with
his hands for some time, then fell down on his back '
(sometimes
accompanied by his more impressionable congregations) '
his
stomach and throat swelled up, and he remained speechless' for
some time, then '
broke out into utterance.'
The five or six hundred children between three and fifteen who
were trained at this school seem, however, to have shewn more
interesting results than this ; there is evidence that '
some drove
knives into themselves ', exposed themselves to fire, and fell from
rocks twelve feet high without being injured, while others shewed
that they possessed extrasensory powers, narrating events which
were taking place at a distance, and accurately foretelling the future.
The whole episode, with its apparently deliberate organization
and training of children below the age of puberty, is curiously
reminiscent of what is said about the psychical techniques of the
East.
The Saint-M^dard affair has a more spontaneous ring. It began
quite simply with the cure of a number of sick people at the tomb
of the Jansenist ascetic, Frangois de Paris. Then, after a convul-
^ Some Human Oddities. London, Home & Van Thai, 1947.
404 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march I
sion had accompanied the cure of a paralytic girl, convulsions i
became the general rule. Mgr Knox points out that they were at !1
first regarded as the concomitants of healing ; but that quite soon i
their occurrence became an end in itself, as an evidence of the i
miraculous. Later still came the secours ; this was at first regarded \
as a counter-irritant to the pain of the healing convulsion ;
then, j
and with greater reason, it too was held as proof that the super- i
natural was at work. The secours, for which the convulsionaries 1
might crave as a source of relief, took a variety of forms. The
sufferer might ask to be trodden on ; to be subjected to the pres- |
sure of heavy weights ; to be beaten ; to be prodded by sharp |
objects, such as swords or spits (which, curiously enough, very
often pierced the clothes, but never the skin) ; or to be crucified.
The evidence for these occurrences is very good, in so far it was
collected and recorded by persons who would much rather have
believed them to be faked ; for the logical justification of these
'
miracles '
was to provide support for the Jansenist teachings,
and to protest against the enforcement of the Bull '
Unigenitus
'
which condemned these ; and they were chronicled by those
who held the opposite view. Here again, some of the actual
phenomena—the rotation of sword blades within the sockets of a
sufferer's eye, the prolonged '
whirling '
of other sufferers, the
insensibility to pain—recall stories of Eastern fakirs, and of the
dancing dervishes of North Africa. It may also be remarked that,
as in the case of Rasputin, some of the healings later performed
had little to do with the personal sanctity of the healer ;
thus, for
instance, the numbers of cures of ulcers and abscesses attributed
to one particular woman shewed no diminution when she took to
sexual irregularity. Healing is obviously a less demanding occu-
pation than lion-taming, for which chastity is essential.
Renee Haynes
Hypnotism and the Power Within. By S. J. van Pelt, M.B.,
B.S. London, Skeffington, 1950. 208 pp. 18 plates. i8s.
Dr van Pelt, President of the British Society of Medical Hyp-
notists, has written an account, clearly intended for the general
reader, of hypnotism and its use in the treatment of neurotic
ailments. He has also taken the opportunity to deliver an attack on
psycho-analysis, prefrontal leucotomy, electric convulsion therapy
and other methods of shock treatment, Christian Science, and stage
hypnotism. Except to express some surprise at the violence of his
offensive—especially on the founders of psycho-analytical theory,
to whom he denies credit for any contribution to our knowledge
—
we are not concerned with these matters here.
1951] ' -^ ' ' '
'
Reviews '
405
Dr van Pelt devotes several pages to the argument that the
mediumistic trance is identical with the hypnotic trance. Al-
though the two states have many features in common, it would be
premature to say that they are identical. Some evidence pointing
to a difference between them has been provided by the electro-
encephalograph. In the hypnotic trance, the E.E.G. shows the
same pattern as the waking state. Experiments carried out by
J. L. Franke, a neurologist of Haarlem (see Tijdschrift voor Para-
psychologie, 1938, 10, 111-17), led him to the conclusion that the
brain appears to be '
asleep '
in the mediumistic trance. It is
also of interest that Thomson, Forbes, and Bolles, with a subject
who was able voluntarily to induce light trance states in himself,
found an E.E.G. which was characteristic of light sleep (see Amer.
J. Psychiat., 1937, 93, 13 13-14). The E.E.G. was, however, then
in an early stage of development, and there is need to repeat this
work with modern and more reliable models. The present writer
has been unable to trace any more recent attempt to obtain the
objective evidence of the E.E.G. on this point.
Intending readers should be warned that the book is exasperat-
ingly repetitive, and that (in common with so many other works
published by the firm of Hutchinson and its associated companies)
there is no index. -
'
E. O.
DiANETics : The Modern Science of Mental Health. By
L. Ron Hubbard. New York, Hermitage House, 1950.
xxvii, 452 pp. $5.00.
This book is certainly a work of genius. The author claims to
have discovered, by following the Scientific Method, not only
how the mind works in health but also the one true cause of all
psychological illness. He presents a new method of psycho-
therapy which he guarantees will cure all cases of such illness
without fail, and will further transform normal man into superman.
The genius of the author lies, however, not in the painstaking
and accurate manner in which he has accumulated, sorted, and
presented his evidence, for there is none—not one scrap ; nor in
his powers of invention and salesmanship, magnificent though
they are (his self-assurance and arrogance are superb) ; but it is
in the fact that he has been able to produce a system of psychology
based on the most obvious untruths which has nevertheless, in
America, competed with and to a large extent defeated all rival
systems of redemption. The author must have realized that people
in these times will listen to any Messiah who claims complete
authority in the name of Science and will relieve them of the
4o6 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
burden of being morally responsible for their actions. Mr Hub-
bard's system has the further advantages of undercutting its
rivals in cost, and in the fact that anyone can practise it. The sole
qualification seems to be the purchase of Mr Hubbard's book ;
this of course saves the tiresome business of an expensive medical
training.
Dianetics consists of : (i) rewriting a lot of platitudes in brand
new jargon (' Aberree '
is a good example) ;
(ii) large quantities of
Freud rewritten in a mixture of current teen-age American and
electronic terminology ;
(iii) the crib of the engram.
The basic idea in dianetics is that the mind consists of two
sections : {a) the Analytic Mind which works as a perfect com-
puting machine ; and [b) the Reactive Mind, a jazzed-up version
of that well-worn vehicle, the unconscious, which causes all our
troubles by interfering with {a). It appears that whenever we are
unconscious, asleep, injured, drugged, or in utero, the '
reactive
*
mind is wide awake, picks up all painful stimuli, and stores them
as impressions on the actual protoplasm of the brain cells. These
impressions are the engrams, and cause the bulk of our troubles
from ulcers to war. Dianetic therapy exorcises them, and super-
man, the perfect analytical machine, is produced. The patient is
relieved of all responsibility for his actions since he can either
blame the engrams or function happily in the iron determinism of
a perfect machine.
The technique of Dianetic Therapy, though this fact is heavily
disguised, consists of powerful suggestion applied during a light
hypnotic trance to a gullible subject. The subject, having had
the theory of engrams explained to him, obligingly '
recalls
'
infantile or pre-natal experiences, with cathartic accompaniment.
Mr Hubbard's dismissal of ESP as an explanation of the alleged
ability of dianetic therapy to recall pre-natal experiences is, of
course, otiose. Indeed, his statement that one '
should not accept
telepathy any more than he would accept ESP '
(p. 321) to account
for the '
phenomena '
is a measure of the half-knowledge and
confused thinking which pervades the book.
Dianetics is the Mumbojumbology of Dr Rhubarb come to life.
Mr Hubbard might well have taken his cue from the following
extract from Beachcomber's column published in the Daily
Express a few months ago :
One or two people have asked what is meant by Mumbojumbology,
of which Dr Rhubarb is the foremost living exponent. It means
idiotic veneration. The Abracadabrists, led by Bottelburg, discovered
that any drivel uttered repeatedly, and in an authoritative tone, will be
accepted today with the fervour formerly accorded to the worship of an
African idol. But Dr Rhubarb widened the appeal of the new philo-
195 1] ^- Reviews 407
sophy by relying less on completely meaningless sentences than
Abracadabraism had done. He evolved a system of half-meanings
uttered in a jargon of bastard Latin and Greek words. He also concen-
trated on clothing obvious lies in pseudo-scientific gibberish.
The depressing aspect of the whole shameful affair is that half
a million Americans, some of whom are sincere and intelligent
people, have fallen for it.
J. R. Smythies
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research.
Vol. 45, No. I, January 1951. New York, A.S.P.R., $1.50.
Mrs Lydia Allison contributes an obituary of Mrs Leonora
Piper, the well-known '
mental ' medium who was at the height of
her powers in the eighteen-nineties. Dorothy A. Berg in a useful
review compares and contrasts various theories that have been put
forward concerning the modus operandi of trance communication.
water divining
The names L. A. Dale and Gardner Murphy at the head of a
report guarantee a carefully designed research project. They
have collaborated with R. M. Greene, W. Miles, J. M. Trefethen
(Professor of Geology, University of Maine), and M. UUman,
M.D., in '
Dowsing : A Field Experiment in Water Divining
'
(pp. 3-16). It is, as far as I know, the first adequately planned and
supervised field experiment in which dowsers and professional
geologists have been matched on equal terms. It was not the
purpose of the experimenters '
to present an evaluation of the
evidence for and against the general claims of water diviners or of
the conclusions reached by other investigators. . . . We should
not wish to be interpreted as believing that we have contributed
any findings which radically change the overall research situation'.
The problem which they set themselves was simply :
'
Can
water diviners find water under conditions in which the professional
geologist is unable to do so? '
It was necessary to choose a level
terrain without surface water or wells which would betray the
presence of underground water, and in which digging or drilling
could be used without great expense to check the results. A
search led to the selection of a reasonably satisfactory tract of land
near Liberty, Maine, and an advertisement was inserted in four
Maine newspapers.
Water Diviners—Dowsers, those who can find water with forked stick,
are invited to take part in search for water in open country near Liberty,
Maine, on August 4th, 5th, or 6th [1949] for the benefit of scientists
4.08 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
interested in this power. Travel expenses and $12 for the working day
available ; also prize for outstanding success. Those interested write
to : Gardner Murphy, Ashland, N.H.
Twenty-seven dowsers were finally selected (22 men, 4 women,
I adolescent girl). Details of the life history and of the dowsing
history of each were noted. At the close of the interview the
diviner was conducted to a spot near but out of sight of the test
ground, where he was blindfolded. Most of the diviners brought
their own sticks or rods with them, and it is interesting to note that
not one of them subscribed to a psychic or psychokinetic theory of
dowsing ; all believed it to be an as yet unexplained physical
phenomenon.
Each dowser was led over the site first with blindfold and then
without. Records were taken of his method of working, and of
the number, intensity, and form of the rod-movements. As a
rule, there were several points with blindfold and several without
at which the rod turned and an attempt was made to get the dowser
to specify depth and rate of flow at each point ; most were very
reluctant to specify rate of flow except vaguely as '
good '
or
'
poor '. The dowser was asked to name his '
best ' spot chosen
with blindfold and his '
best '
without blindfold, and for these
two spots a quantitative estimate of rate of flow and depth was
insisted on.
Subsequently Trefethen, the Professor of Geology, and a local
water engineer made their own estimates of the depth and rate of
flow at sixteen pre-arranged points. The experts quite properly
made use of their knowledge of the existence of a nearby well: '
. . .
.
knowing that the water in soft soil must be nearly level, they could
properly apply their information. The dowsers, thinking and
working in terms of " veins " of water (which did not of course
exist) could hardly make use of the fact of the well even had they
known about it'.
Then pipes were driven down to determine the depth, and rate
of flow was estimated by pumping timed with a stop-watch.
This was done (with certain unavoidable exceptions) at each
indicated point. The results are illustrated graphically, as '
scat-
ter '
diagrams. In the case of the dowsers there was no general
correspondence between the estimates and the actual facts. Both
depth and rate of flow were greatly overestimated. For example,
a blindfolded dowser estimated 75 gallons per minute when the
actual flow was i gallon per minute, while another gave 25 ft.
where the depth was 4 ft. The two '
experts '
on the other hand
estimated quite closely the over-all depth of the water table and
the depth at specific points, and also agreed with each other.
The correlations were mathematically significant. As to rates of
1951] .-.av '
' Reviews 409
flow, '
the water engineer did well in over-all estimate of rate of
flow, but did not appropriately vary his estimates from point to
point within the terrain ; the geologist's estimates of rate of flow
were too low and likewise unrelated to the actual point-by-point
variations '.
There was some discussion with the dowsers about the '
arti-
ficiality '
of the conditions, since it was clear that nobody was
planning a house or well on that site. But if a test of this kind is
not a valid test of dowsing then we may as well throw up the sponge
and declare that the phenomenon, as claimed, is untestable. If
the conditions are accepted, and if the results of Dale et al. are
confirmed, we may, rather reluctantly, have to label dowsing as
a spurious phenomenon.
Meanwhile, the report concludes :
'
But two major issues
remain open : (i) Does water divining ever occur by virtue of a
paranormal process? and (2) Is the motion of the stick invariably
the result of the diviner's own muscular contractions? The
present writers do not wish to commit themselves, . . . believing
that far more research is needed before they can be answered.'
D. P.
CORRESPONDENCE
The Statistical Evaluation of Group
Experiments
Sir,—Dr Schmeidler's interpretation of her interesting and
important work reported in the November-December Journal
seems to be marred by a statistical error. She appears to have
treated group experiments, in which several percipients guess at
the same target, by the same methods as she would treat individual
experiments, in which every percipient has his own run of targets.
The mistake is important and it has occurred before. What
Dr Schmeidler has overlooked is that the statistics of card-guessing
must be based on the question : given the guesses, how likely is
it that the targets would have corresponded with them at least as
closely as they do? and not, given the targets, how likely is it that
the guesses, etc.? This is because we know the targets to be
random, but we do not know about the randomness of the guesses.
It happens that if there is only one percipient per target the statis-
tics are the same whichever question we ask, and that is perhaps
why this point has often been overlooked. But where several
percipients guess at the same target it can make a great deal of
difference.
4IO Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
A more succinct but less instructive way of putting essentially
the same criticism is that we cannot evaluate the results of several
subjects independently since their results are not in fact indepen-
dent ; but this does not bring out the essential point that, since
the statistics must treat the targets as variable and the guesses as
given, we cannot expect to get more significant results by using
more percipients to guess at the same targets. From this fact it is
clear that the only advantage to be expected of group experiments
is that they should be more representative and perhaps more
consistent.
How can group experiments be evaluated? In theory by the
use of the elaborate multiple matching methods developed by
Greville and others, but in practice more simply by the almost
equivalent method of getting a group opinion—e.g. a majority
opinion—on each guess. Thus, if the most popular guess for a
given exposure of a target is Star, the '
group-guess '
may be
taken as Star, and the group is then treated statistically as an
individual. The group opinion can be determined either at the
time of the guess or after the session. Both methods demand
extra time and work, though much of this can be saved by a
resourceful experimenter.
What about Dr Schmeidler's experiments? I understand that
the 1943-45 series (sheep v. goats) was individual and the rest
(sheep V. goats with Rorschach studies) group testing. The
former were therefore correctly evaluated, and since the results
were significant if seems reasonable to take at their face value at
least the sheep v. goats part of the group studies. To clinch the
matter all we need to know is : in how many runs the mean
sheep-score exceeded the mean goat-score and in how many the
mean goat-score exceeded the mean sheep-score ; and similarly
for good and poor adjustment, etc. It seems likely that the
results would still be significant. I wonder if Dr Schmeidler can
give them to us.
I would like to express the hope, too, that in any future reports
Dr Schmeidler will state explicitly whether each result comes from
individual or group experiments, and give rather more complete
accounts of the procedure used for statistical evaluation.
Christopher Scott
Sir,—Mr Scott's criticism is technically justified. In the
article to which he refers, probabilities were calculated from
/-scores both for the individually tested subjects and for the group
tests in which all members of a class guessed at the same targets.
As he points out, this is not theoretically correct.
1951] .' c "
. , Correspondence 411
But does it matter, in practice? I should like to raise two
points which indicate that it does not ; and that the method which
was used leads to the same conclusions as the correct but more
time-consuming one devised by Dr Greville.
The first is empirical. In several other series which were similar
in procedure and in the nature of the target, both the Greville and
other methods were applied, and no appreciable differences were
found. Dr Betty M. Humphrey states in relation to this :
In every case the CR of the difference obtained [by the Greville method]
differed from that obtained by the binomial formula by only a few
hundredths of a point. (For example, for Series Si, S2, and S3, CR's
of the difference obtained by the binomial formula were 2-79, 2-8 1,
2*29. By Dr Greville's method the comparable CR's of the difference
were 276, 275, 2-26.)
Because of the almost prohibitive amount of work involved in carrying
out the extensive analyses according to the Greville method, and
especially because of the fact that no appreciable difference has ever
been found in connection with any of the series of this report between
the results obtained by the Greville method and the simple binomial
formula, it was deemed unnecessary to apply the Greville method to
the series of the present report where the CR's obtained were not of
borderline significance. {J. Parapsychol., 1949, 13, p. 157, footnote.)
It will be remembered that the two probability figures quoted
in my article were P= -000001 for the difference between mean
ESP scores for well-adjusted '
sheep '
and well-adjusted '
goats '
;
and P = -0003 for the difference between mean ESP scores of the
sheep whose Rorschach protocols were free of seven '
signs '
and
of goats whose protocols were free of the same signs. Since
neither of these figures would ordinarily be considered borderline,
I followed Dr Humphrey's precedent in evaluating the data.
Even allowing for some margin or error because of the statistical
method used, we can, I think, take it that differences between
the groups were demonstrated by the research. If this is so,
spending many hours on further evaluation would not contribute
to our understanding.
My second point relates to theory. The reason for applying a
correction to multiple calls on a target is the possibility that many
members of a group have a preferred pattern of symbol choice,
which (if it exists) may be similar to, or different from the symbol
pattern of the target list. This can, of course, affect the data when
an experiment uses only one target list. In our case, however,
27 groups guessed at 9 lists each, making 243 lists in all. It seems
obvious that the importance of multiple calling is minimized
when so many sets of multiple calls are used.
In this connection, Dr Greville has written to me, '
Experience
412 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
has shown that similar stimulus preferences among the members
of a group are an important factor only when (i) the number of
possible stimuli from which the target is selected is very small,
and (2) the number of calls in an experimental session is also very
small.'
Neither of these conditions was fulfilled in the research to which
Mr Scott refers ; thus his criticism would seem to be inappro-
priate. .UijJ'
There is one comment of Mr Scott's which should not go
unchallenged. In his third paragraph he writes, '
We cannot
evaluate the results of several subjects independently since their
results are not in fact independent.' (The italics are mine.) Here
he assumes a point which he might find very hard to demonstrate.
The argument against using ^-scores for multiple calling of a
target is based on the assumption that members of a group have
similar stimulus preferences ; but this is only an assumption.
Examination of the data shows that any such similarity is so small
that it is not perceptible to ordinary observation. This is also
demonstrated by the fact that Dr Humphrey found such small
differences between CRs obtained by the Greville method and
the binomial formula.
The general problem is one to which many of us in psychical
research are especially sensitized. Often, in every field but
particularly in ours, critics point out, correctly, possible loopholes
in the procedure of some research. These criticisms are valuable
for later tightening of the procedure and proper evaluation of the
data. But if the critic assumes that what ynight have affected the
results did '
in fact ' affect them, he will be making the same sort
of error as the experimenter who assumed that what might have
affected the results did not affect them at all. Sometimes, as a
result of such irresponsible criticism, worthwhile or provocative
research is dismissed too readily as worthless. (This generaliza-
tion is not intended to apply to the present case, nor to Mr Scott's
courteous letter.)
Gertrude Schmeidler
'Retroactive PK' and the
Classification of Phenomena
Sir,—I should like to make two comments on the interesting
letter from Miss Pamela Clark which appeared in the Journal
(January-February 1951) and in which she referred to my paper
in Part 178 of Proceedings.
When Miss Clark says that I recognize '
two main groups of
195 1] sw.;(.''»Vi Correspondence 413
phenomena, one cognitive and the other conative ', she attributes
to me a view which I have never wished to defend. Miss Clark
mentions my criticism of the term '
precognition '
on the grounds
that it begs (or seems to beg) the question whether the facts in
question are attributable to cognitive acts. The term '
extra-
sensory perception '
is, of course, open to the same objection.
I agree with Miss Clark's statement that '
there may be something
unsatisfactory for psychical research in adopting without question
our everyday categories of cognition and conation '. Indeed, I
intended to underline this point when I argued (on p. 72 of my
paper) that we are not entitled to regard the introspectible dif-
ference between '
guessing '
and '
willing ', as they appear to the
subject, as a reliable criterion for classifying psi-phenomena.
My second point concerns Miss Clark's suggestion that we
should define phenomena '
as far as possible in positivist terms '.
It may be worth mentioning that this policy, if rigorously applied,
would, I think, render it meaningless to distinguish '
retroactive
PK '
from '
retrocognitive clairvoyance '. The distinction be-
tween these concepts surely hinges on our interpreting causal
connection between a pair of events, A and B, as a relation which
holds in a certain direction (as an asymmetrical relation), so that
there is a difference in meaning between saying '
A causes B '
and '
B causes A '. The direction of causal influence between two
events is not, however, something which can be observed by the
senses ; hence a positivist should deny that this is a legitimate or
useful feature of our concept of causation. The common-sense
belief that causes must precede their effects would be attributed by
most positivists to an arbitrary linguistic convention concerning
our use of the word '
cause '. (That this is not the whole story is
illustrated in the discussion by Professors C. D. Broad and
H. H. Price of The Philosophical Implications of Foreknowledge'
in Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, Supplementary Volume
XVI.)
It does appear tempting, in view of the temporal displacement
effects found in psi-phenomena, to abandon the conception of
causation as an asymmetrical relation. The main attraction of this
course is that it seems to dispose of the great theoretical difficulties
involved in supposing that events may be directly influenced
by events which have not yet happened—difficulties which would
apply equally to cases of '
retroactive PK '
and cases of '
precog-
nition ', and which seem to be due primarily to our taking causal
connection to be an asymmetrical relation. If this course were
adopted, it would require some radical changes in the classification
of psi-phenomena. It would, for example, imply (as I argued on
p. 63 of my paper) that PK and precognition are not independent
414 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
concepts. I wonder whether Miss Clark is prepared to be a
consistent positivist?
C. W. K. MUNDLE
ERRATUM
Journal, January-February 1951
In Table IV on page 365 the figure 134 should be 74.
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
- r
;
Society for Psychical Research
31 Tavistock Square •
London • WCi
SUPPLEMENT
TO
JOURNAL
March-April 1951, Vol. XXXVI, No. 663
FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL
FOR 1950
I. Awards for Research
The Society during the past year continued to make good progress
notwithstanding the difficulties that affected it in common with many
other Societies, namely, the general rise in costs and the decreasing
leisure which members are able to give to the Society's work. In these
circumstances the Council have thought that research could best be
promoted by offering monetary awards for original investigations which
the Council regarded as reaching a sufficiently high standard. It was
their hope that in this way younger v>'orkers might be attracted to
specified pieces of research in any branch of our subject, whether in
the form of quantitative experiment or otherwise. They decided that
such awards should be open to all investigators, whether members of
the Society or not, and irrespective of nationality. If persons intending
to carry out research or experiments will get in touch with the Society
before beginning their investigations, they v,'ill be encouraged to inquire
into problems which have hitherto received insufficient attention, and
will obtain information as to the methods which appear particularly
promising.
The first award was made to P. H. Marsh, of Gainsborough, for
experimental work carried out by him in connexion with extrasensory
perception. A note on this work will be printed in the Joiirjial.
A piece of major research being carried out with the approval of the
Council is a critical analysis of PK data by J. Fraser Nicol, which is
likely to occupy him for a considerable time.
2. Professor J. B. Rhine's Visit
An important event of the year was the visit to this country of
Professor J. B. Rhine, Director of the Parapsychology Laboratory- at
ii Supplement to Journal, March-April ig^i
Duke University, who had been invited to deliver the Tenth Myers
Memorial Lecture. He gave the lecture, which was entitled '
Tele-
pathy and Human Personahty ', on lo May 1950 at the Caxton Hall
at a better-attended meeting than any organized by the Society for
several years. Many of our members also had the advantage of meeting
him and Mrs Rhine at a Reception and discussing some problems of
psychical research with them. Professor Rhine also addressed well-
attended meetings at several University towns in this country and
abroad, and undoubtedly gave a great impetus to public interest in our
subject. His lecture was published on 25 January 195 1 and has been
circulated to members.
3. Other Visits
In June Professor Gardner Murphy passed through London on his
way from America to India, where he was conducting an investigation
under the auspices of Unesco, and several of our members much
enjoyed the opportunity of meeting him again.
As mentioned in the last Annual Report, Dr Betty Humphrey, a
member of Professor Rhine's staff at Duke University, accepted an
invitation to visit London and to conduct research work here, the
Society contributing to the expense of her visit. The pleasure that her
visit gave was increased by the fact that she was accompanied by Miss
Elizabeth McMahan, another member of Professor Rhine's staff.
They stayed at 31 Tavistock Square for about two months from the
middle of August to the middle of October. Of their visit the Hon.
Research Officer writes :
I know that I am expressing the feelings of each one of the small
number of British experimenters in parapsychology in recording how
much we appreciated the help and encouragement given by these
workers from Duke. It was of the utmost value to us to be able to
discuss problems with two people who spend their whole working
life experimenting. Their unfailing enthusiasm and willingness,
even after a long day's work at their own experiments, to continue
talks late into the night, was an example to us all. The tie of common
aims and interests that has been growing between Duke and the
British workers was greatly strengthened by this visit.
In addition to addressing a meeting of the Society (12 September),
Dr Humphrey was able to visit and lecture at both Oxford and
Cambridge. The chief piece of experimental research carried out in
London was a follow-up of the work of Professor Urban of Inns-
bruck. Using patients in a mental hospital as his subjects, Professor
Urban reported striking improvement in their performance in ESP
tests after they had been given electro-convulsive therapy and other
forms of physical treatment. Dr Humphrey concentrated on testing
patients before and after electro-convulsive therapy. In addition to
this work, Dr Humphrey conducted a series of ESP tests at 31
Tavistock Square in which interested members were able to take
part as subjects.
Supplement to Journal, March-April igji iii
The data from both these series required a considerable amount of
statistical analysis, which Dr Humphrey undertook to carry out after
her return to the United States. We look forward with interest to
receiving her report when the statistical work has been completed.
Dr S. G. Soal has been awarded a travel grant for the purpose of
visiting Duke University by the I^nited States Educational Commission
in the United Kingdom under the Fulbright Program. There he hopes
to co-operate with Dr J. G. Pratt in a detailed examination of the
negative displacement effects noted by F. Bateman and himself in the
Stewart records. Dr Soal, who has received an official invitation
under the Woodward Foundation to lecture on parapsychology at Yale
University, hopes through the kindness of Professor Gardner Murphy
to spend the first fortnight of his visit in New York and to make the
acquaintance of the workers in parapsychology at the City College of
New York. He has also received an invitation to lecture at Pittsburg
University.
Dr and Mrs Soal will be away from England from 22 March to
29 May.
4. Research
In the early part of the year Dr West completed a series of experi-
ments in which fifty subjects were tested for ESP in individual sessions.
Both cards and drawings were used as targets. Dr Humphrey and Dr
West both rated the subjects' drawings according to the psychological
characteristics of '
expansion '
and '
compression '. The aim was to
find out if there were differences in the ESP performance of the two
types of subjects. The results, which were reported in the Journal ior
September-October 1950, were inconclusive, but some interesting
points were brought out about the expansion-compression test.
Later in the year Dr West re-examined the drawings obtained from
the subjects who took part in the '
mass '
ESP experiment conducted
by himself on 7 February 1947. (See S.P.R. Journal, May 1947.)
Mrs C. H. Gay rated all the subjects who sent in a drawing in accord-
ance with the expansion-compression test. An independent judge had
'
blind matched '
the subjects' drawings against two possible targets.
The results showed that there was no significant difference between
the matching assessment scores of the expansive and compressive
subjects, both being close to chance expectation.
Later in the year further interesting results were obtained. In some
ESP tests with five subjects Dr West noticed a significant dispersion
of scores, some of the subjects scoring above chance, others below.
The same effect was found in some data collected by J. Eraser Nicol
and Edward Osborn in experiments conducted in 1948-9. The results
were given in detail in the report in the Journal for January-February
^951-
The large series of home-testing ESP experiments organized by
G. W. Fisk yielded some interesting displacement scores. (See the
preliminary report in the Journal for January-February 195 1.) Mr
iv Supplement to Journal, March-April ig^i
Fisk and Dr West have since carried out further tests under improved
conditions.
Mrs K. M. Goldney and Dr E. J. Dingwall are engaged on a detailed
investigation of the reported haunting of Borley Rectory, and have
been allowed to inspect many records and correspondence regarding it
left by the late Harry Price. A great deal of preliminary work has been
done, and several witnesses have been interviewed personally. It is,
however, expected that the investigation will require considerable time
to complete, as there is a very large mass of material to be examined.
It is hoped that a report of this inquiry will be published in due course.
Mrs Gay has for some time past been supervising an experiment in
cross-correspondences in which several automatists who are members
of the Society have taken part. In the course of her investigation she
has carried out an experiment designed to ascertain whether the
connexions between a large number of scripts which have come under
her scrutiny are to be considered fortuitous or call for some other
explanation. This is a work of considerable intricacy, in which an
attempt to produce an early report might spoil the result.
Mrs Goldney has taken part in the conduct of a series of proxy
sittings at which interesting results have been obtained. Further lines
of investigation are under discussion.
Denys Parsons, one of the Hon. Secretaries, followed up a report
of a telepathy act recounted in the New Statesman of 27 August
1949. The writer referred to two airmen he had known during the
war who performed a thought-reading act which he was convinced was
genuine. It took until April 1950 to track down one of the airmen, who
at once admitted that the act was based on a code. This denouement
was reported in the New Statesman of 9 December 1950.
Mr Parsons also initiated other investigations which originated in
Press reports. In the Evening Standard of 27 June 1950, for example,
appeared the headlines '
Dog is " Thought-reader " : Mongrel does 3-
card trick—and knows about money '. The cutting described the
reporter's visit to Mr Percy Harvey of Norwich, owner of a bitch named
'
Sally '
who could indicate with her paw which card had been chosen
by a member of the audience, could tell a two-shilling piece from a
penny when both coins were held in closed fists, and so on. The case
was kindly followed up by a member, Dr O. C. de C. Ellis, assisted
by a friend, Peter G. Bailey, who is a member of the Magic Circle.
Both wrote admirable reports. Unfortunately, there was no feature in
the case of interest to the psychical researcher and very little of interest
to the magician.
As a result of a short letter from Mr Parsons which appeared in the
Leader, a letter was received from the father of a Norfolk boy who
claims to perform psychic diagnosis and healing. This case was ably
followed up by R. W. K. Hill, a member of the Society who lives in
Norfolk, but his report showed that the case rested on slender
foundations.
The Council are also indebted to Miss Irene Herzberg and Mrs
Kenneth Richmond for the trouble they have taken in the investigation
Supplement to Journal, March-April ig^i v
of a case of '
inspired drawing ', and to L. R. A. Baker for investigating
an interesting poltergeist case at the home of another member, Dr
Hilda de Peyer.
A large number of cases of various kinds of apparently supernormal
activity are constantly being reported to the Society. All are followed
up as far as practicable, but notwithstanding the great amount of labour
so entailed it is only rarely that a case can be brought to a point justi-
fying a published report. The Council wish to thank all members of
the Society who have been so good as to report cases, and to assure
them that their action is much appreciated by the Officers of the
Society. Even when no report can be printed, insight may be gained
into some of the obscure problems involved.
5. Film on Psychical Research
In November the Society was invited to co-operate in the making of
a film on psychical research. The inquiry came from Rayant Pictures
Ltd., a company associated with Twentieth Century Fox Ltd., and the
film is intended to form one of the '
Spotlight ' Series of twenty-
minute films to be shown in public cinemas.
Two members of the Council, Denys Parsons (whose professional
work is the production of scientific films), and Edv/ard Osborn (Hon.
Editor of the 'i.V.K. Journal), were appointed to assist in the preparation
of the script and to arrange facilities for some of the shooting. There
was some difficulty in reconciling the film company's desire for dramatic
presentation with the need to give a strictly accurate picture of psychical
research as carried out in practice. After several conferences and
revisions a script satisfactory to both parties was prepared, though it
proved impossible to incorporate in the space allotted all the '
safe-
guards '
and qualifications in the dialogue and commentary which the
S.P.R. representatives would have wished.
The film should be released in April or May 195 1.
6. Finance
The Society's accounts for 1949 showed an excess of expenditure
over income of some £576 (excluding the Myers Memorial Fund, which
is self-contained). As will be seen from the financial statement on
pp. vii and viii, the Society finished the year 1950 with an excess of
income over expenditure of some ^648 (again excluding the Myers
Memorial Fund). While this more than counterbalances the deficit
for the previous year, a word of explanation is necessary.
Expenditure in 1950 was reduced mainly as a result of {a) the transfer
of the Research Officer from a full-time to an honorary basis, {b) the
cessation of her pension on the death, in February 1950, of Miss Isabel
Newton, and (c) the printing of only one Part of Proceedings. It must
also be borne in mind that the 1949 accounts included a non-recurring
item of £26^ for the cost of producing Part III of the Combined Index
vi Supplement to Journal, March-April ig^i
to Proceedings and Journal (1913-46). Income during 1950 included
the gratifying total oi l^i^ from the voluntary increases which many
members have most generously made in their subscriptions, and an
increase of some £71 in the sale of publications as compared with the
previous year. While the greatest economy will be exercised, rising
costs must be expected to affect almost every item of the Society's
expenditure. The Council desire to see an increase in the volume of
research initiated by the Society, but such an increase must be in
proportion to funds available after the budget has been balanced.
Non-recurring items of income, such as legacies and donations, are
not included in the figure of ^648 mentioned above. These reached
the excellent total of ^307 during the year. The Council have felt it
advisable that such items should be kept separate from the Society's
ordinary revenue, and should form a fund which may be drawn upon
for specific pieces of research distinct from such investigations as are
carried out in the routine work of the Society.
7. The Presidency
Dr S. G. Soal was elected President of the Society for the year.
His Presidential Address, which was delivered at Manson House, Port-
land Place, W. I, on 3 November 1950, will shortly be published in
Proceedings.
8. Membership of the Council
In March, to the great regret of her colleagues, Miss Theodora
Bosanquet announced that for reasons of health she felt compelled to
resign her position as a member of Council, and Professor F. J. M.
Stratton, D.S.O., F.R.S., previously a co-opted member, was appointed
an elected member of Council to fill the vacancy so caused.
In October the Hon. Mrs C. H. Gay was co-opted a member of
Council.
9. Journal
One of the objects which the Council had in view when lifting the
restriction on circulation in September 1949 was to make the work of
the Society available to a wider audience. This hope is beginning to be
realized. As a result of careful circularization, and with the co-opera-
tion of the F. W. Faxon Company, the Society's agents in the United
States, nearly 200 non-members, half of whom are American, are now
regularly receiving the Journal on a subscription basis. The Journal
IS also helping to attract new members, and some subscribers have
already transferred to membership of the Society.
o ooo 00
ir,
oo
<
o
o
tec ZS
^ a o
mT) (J
Pa; ^
^ Q 2
c« c ^
oh Oj
0; g OJ O
a; O o u
c c c ^
: : =
Si
o oooo
iri 00 ^ O
CO rl- (^1
S2
I
53-2
S S
D. a
1°
4>
o
a
u
<
P5
H
M
en
<
a
OS
bi
Z
z
.J
C o 1
o o u
- ^ a
w
c u
£ £ c
01 O rt
4L u —
O IT)
*
c
w
J3
s s ^-
c a C
Oci,a
G
Z
H
z
o
Q
Z
U
«
W
cn
M
«
«i o
« O c o
" a - x
^ o c s
- 8 2-1
>, . . .
cq - - -
^ ^ o o
O ^ m r^j
-^ ^ ^
Si
(NOO oo 00
OOO ooo OOO
vO O in m O 00
IT)
S2
2 feet"! I
(-1 n -M
S3
1 T)
C
a
£
p
0) aj
I^S^QcuO^.t; gx
s; s K tiE c d-a g
I
S « S 5 cn'P & c —
I
-a ^ ^
' o t S o
O[-0<O
r-j (N m
« vO sD 'A
r4 <N
Pi
o
o CI o o
O <N sO o
u-i i/l CM O
r^ i-h ^
C
o
r
o
ON
w
w
o
w
Q
Q
w
Q
w
OS
<
w
w
'i- \D T-H
O <N t-^ <N
in LTj rj •'4-
CN <5 (N
^^
rn
o
«
C
ui (-^ in
a
CxNOO O wo !cri
(N ^ fN O
cj
'3 S
u O
It u,
c j;
oo o 00 o o
^ ^ ly-l ^ Tj- ir^
o <^ o
00(N
vo SO
(N m OS
sO »—
6
03 S
I J3
o
5 o
aj3
•n g
Q
D
siiS>g
. _ o >5-
/1 J' o
V- C M
o oH g
?i c-?--
o E i; T
o2 8 gfcS
00 m n sO 00
00 oor^
m <N
cn-g „
^ c " S
S D C O
Q
O V
c fi c
& S S
2iD S
a, .2
^ *^ ^ 5;
o-a c °
C rt «
• q-i to
d, O oi
, ^ O
" O X
?im -
"J fe.^ "
u ™ S
o o-S —
u a a
<
z
O
U
U
<
W
P
p.
w
Q
o
CJ
OOO'-o
o o o ^ ^ o
^ O i-H oo <N in
^ fS (N T-. w <N
o 00
S2
I
moo
fN r-i m n f^l O ON O
o 00 o ri o 00 o m
O fN m (Ni "ij- Tj- r-i «£5 oo 1-1
o O
o O
m 00
o
CN
^2
be
c
I n
'u
•3 ..a
S £ 1:
o <u n c 3 b OJ
"-^
o c;5
- S c o.o a „
J3
3 ••
t» O
c o
:5m
'J- 0
OS 0
in
si
'h art
•0 is
3 o
o '1° '
5'c
:
c
o
as
•^^
2 I
.aj C
o 3
Son
5 v.,D
c «. p
. 3 C
fa X
C u
a (fi o
11"
C.2 "
X S 3
V> n c taJ f
CLJ „ O
o c y.
m 00 O (N (N tJ-
m fN U-) c>
(N rN i-- (^1
o o fN m i-> m o
^ sOl^ CN CN
o
c^
Pi
W
J
w
W O
Q §
H
w
w
W
U
<
ta
Q
W
«
hi
to
n
iu
2>
> o
'
o o
^ ^ E
X i S
!S " S
" c C
f»l iri
o^ o
coo
in (N
o
to
"I
o.
Q
z;
K
o
K
<
w
«
H
H
M
CO
<
X
P5
M
z
w
J
PQ
w m o O
00 O i/^ o
c
u £
" c
•5 P. J
ooo o
^ in
•a
'
c
<u
a
K
ll
<U M
a
z
D
H
z
w
o
Q
Z
ta
X
<
w
tn
M
mE-i g 3
6 " o
00 00 oo
O rTi Tj- in
CO in
00*
o
«3
o
ON
w
pq
W
O
w
Q Q
CO 3
w
w
E
CO
u
<
CP
w
O
00 ^
0 0 0 0 0 0 0
in 0 00 a*
(N SO 00
0 GO
<N
06
Si S2 si SJ
a
<
..o
»n
CON
3'
<
a
„ >
<
„ C o
« Q. n « -a
n K D
o £ S J >•
I—I . o u
£ c
1- o
^ 8
c<
2 S!
H 3
•~1
T 3 M n
2^ ti
W
c £ M «;
EQ aO[_;
C
o o
tn
" s
£•3
P C3 cj
O
So
o
"
'•S2
eg
S o
'
j: E
•3 4^ «
5 C X
3 3 a
i> u a>
£ 6
O o
s;?
"
S2
s;
"li E^ i
g c o ?i a C
o T3 „ W >
a» r ^ if
g.^ ^-5
§<§!
t3 . 3 4<
I- o ~ v >
§•£ o
£ c
,
• O tfl !>
c
= 2 s S "
C ° 3 a; TI
o n
•3 c t:
.t: ^
& i ?^ c to o
o £ °=
t,
c f2 3j o cfl n
3 O. ^ J. .H ^
o a - <J j=
.3 M O
n 2^ 2
o s.a s
3
b « D
o
C 3 _
" a"^ -r. u > "
J3 ^ g c» .2
g' c a g -a S
-n _Q ^ ^ 1^ S
I S 3-3^
o ^
o =H c
O (1 c «
0)
3 «
^ — a»
00^
g K
5 5 s
K ''J O
3-a
.£ c
o "
•c 3
» V
C C
'
C
Supplement to Journal, March-April 1951
SCHEDULE OF INVESTMENTS
Nominal Book Value Value
31 December
1950
MYERS MEMORIAL FUND
;
3i% Conversion Stock 1961
3% Savings Bonds 1960/70
BLENNERHASSETT RESEARCH FUND
British Transport 3% Guaranteed Stock
1978/88
RESEARCH ENDOWMENT FUND
4% Consolidated Stock - - - -
3% Funding Stock 1959/69
3i% War Stock 1952 or after -
British Transport 3% Guaranteed Stock
1978/88
British Transport 3% Guaranteed Stock
1967/72 ------
3°'o Defence Bonds - - - - -
3% Savings Bonds 1960/70
Australia 2i% Stock 1967/71 -
liX Consolidated Stock - - - -
GENERAL FUND
4% Consolidated Stock - - - -
York 3% Redeemable Stock 1955/65 -
Australia 3% Stock 1955/58
Nigeria 3% Stock 1955 - - - -
East India Railwav Deferred Annuity-
Class D ----- -
3% Savings Bonds 1960/70
3% Savings Bonds 1955/65
Austraha 3i% Registered Stock 1965/69
£250 0 0 £287 10 0 £240 9 4
750 0 0 819 7 6 g
£1,106 17 6 £980 3 1
1,510 10 10 £1,510 0 0 £1,379 6 4
1 460 Q 0 £1,699 1 6 £1,494 13 6
2 300 0 0 2,504 2 6 2,269 16 3
800 0 0 864 0 0 753 15 0
6 626 \ 5 6,472 17 1
1
6,050 8 8
514 0 0 539 14 0 485 14 10
600 0 0 670 5 0 617 12 6
3,157 9 2 3,449 9 5 3,114 1 7
995 2 9 1,040 10 0 924 4 6
504 3 S 403 10 0 356 11 0
£17,643 10 4 £16,066 17 10
86 11 11 £100 15 4 £88 0 10
800 0 0 848 0 0 792 0 0
250 0 0 262 10 0 251 17 6
1,200 0 0 1,272 0 0 1,236 0 0
23 8 0 590 17 0 526 10 0
3,000 0 0 3,240 2 3 2.958 15 0
1,664 12 4 1,703 10 3 1,683 6 11
1500 0 0 1,567 18 0 1,485 0 0
£9,585 12 10 £9,021 10 3
SCHEDULE OF DONATIONS
AnonvTnous Donations
Mrs A. T. Cox
James Langham
A. E. Rigg
Miss D. E. Warren
Mrs E. Wenberg
- £57 7 0
3 4 5
2 2 0
1 0 0
2 0 0
17 0 0
£82 13 S
li
xii Supplement to Journal, March-April ig^i
10. The Library
During the year 93 books have been added to the Library, of which
14 were presented by the authors or given by members of the Society.
The number of books borrowed by Members and Associates during
the year was 669. Eighty-one books were borrowed by the National
Central Library.
The Council have presented Volumes 38 to 48 of Proceedings to the
Institut fur Grenzgebiete der Psychologie und Psychohygiene, Freiburg,
Germany, to bring its collection up to date. The Principal, Dr Hans
Bender, has expressed his grateful thanks for the gift.
II. Obituary
On 18 February the Society suffered a severe loss through the death
of Miss Isabel Newton, an Hon. Member of the Society. Miss New-
ton's services, first as Assistant Secretary, then as Secretary, and later
as a member of Council, extended over a period of forty years, and
were distinguished in the highest degree by loyalty, efficiency' and
sympathy for all with whom she came in contact. A tribute to her
memory has been printed in Part 178 of Proceedings.
Among other losses by death may be m^entioned those of Miss May
Walker, who took an active part in many investigations of physical
phenomena and who left the Society a legacy by her Will ; Mrs
Lloyd Tuckey, whose husband was a pioneer in the investigation of
hypnotism and a member of the Council ; and Mr C. J. P. Cave, one
of the oldest members of the Society.
12. Membership of the Society
During the year 81 new Members, 11 Student-Associates, and one
Corresponding Member were elected. The total loss in membership
froni deaths, resignations, etc., was 64 Members and 7 Associates,
leaving a net increase of 22 in the total membership which now,
mcluding Hon. and Corresponding Members (14) and Hon.
Associates (13), stands at 1002.
13. Publications
One Part of Proceedings, Part 178, was published during the year,
and SIX numbers of the Journal and three Supplements were issued.
In May was published a pamphlet by W. H. Salter entitled Trance
Medtumship : An Introductory Study of Mrs Piper and Mrs Leonard,
and in July the pamphlet Hints on Sittings with Mediums was revised
and made available to the public.
The Secretary's sales to the general public amounted to £231 15s. id.
and to members of the Society ,^89 3s. iid. ; the sales (1949) in the
United States to members and the general public were ^^15 os. 8d.
Supplement to Journal, March-April igsi xiii
The total of £335 19s. 8d. is an increase of £~o 19s. lod. over the
sales recorded in the last Annual Report.
14. Date of Annual General Meeting
An alteration to Article 37 of the Society's Articles of Association
was made by a Special Resolution, unanimously passed at an Extra-
ordinary General Meeting held on 14 December, extending from 28
February to 30 April the date by which the Annual General Meetuig
must be held. This alteration, by allowing more time for the auditing
of the Accounts, will make it easier for the Annual Report and Financial
Statement to be circulated to members in advance of the Meeting.
15. Meetings
General Meetings
10 May. Tenth Myers Memorial Lecture by Professor J. B. Rhme.
3 Nov. Presidential Address by Dr S. G. Soal.
Private Meetings
12 Jan.
'
The Experience and the Object in Science and Psychical
Research '
by C. C. L. Gregory.
26 Jan. '
Perceptivity and the Psyche '
by Dr L. J. Bendit.
1 1 Feb. '
Precognition '
by C. W. K. Mundle.
28 Feb. Annual General Meeting of the Society.
28 Feb. '
The Technique of a Certain Clairvoyant ' by Eric Cuddon.
9 Mar. '
Psychical Research and Occultism '
by James Leigh.
23 Mar. '
The Psi Faculty : A Personal Record '
by Dr S. G. Soal.
19 April '
Stage Telepathy '
by Jack Salvin.
17 May Reception for Professor J. B. Rhine.
25 May '
The Electro-encephalograph '
by Dr C. C. Evans.
7 June '
The Design of Experiments in Psychical Research '
by Dr
R. H. Thouless.
17 June '
The Measurement of Personality '
by Dr H. J. Eysenck.
12 Sept. '
Recent Research on the Relationship between Personality
and E.S.P.' by Dr Betty M. Humphrey.
21 Sept. '
The Assessment of Evidence in Spontaneous Cases '
by
G. N. M. Tyrrell.
5 Oct. '
A Physical Basis for Parapsychology '
by Dr J. R. Smythies.
21 Oct. '
Searching for Missing Persons by Divination '
by L. J.
Latham.^
16 Nov. '
Some Famous " Talking " Animals '
by Denys Parsons.
30 Nov. '
Some Aspects of Psycho-kinesis '
by Mrs Martha Kneale.
14 Dec. '
Psychical Research and Modern Science '
by C. C. Stevens.
The Council wish to record their appreciation of the great amount of
time and effort which Denys Parsons has devoted to the task of
arranging the Society's programme of Meetings.
^The case described in Mr Latham's talk was fully reported in Radio-
perception for September 1950, published by the British Society of Dowsers.
Supplement to Journal, March-April ig^i
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
Meetings of the Council were held as follows :
460th 21 Sept. 1950 Chairman : The President, Dr S. G Soal
461st 31 Oct. 1950 Chairman : The President, Dr S. G Soal
462nd 7 Dec. 1950 Chairman : Admiral the Hon. A. C Strutt
463rd 29 Jan. 195 1 Chairman : The President, Dr S. G. Soal.
At a meeting of the Council held on 31 October 1950, the Hon. Mrs
C. H. Gay was co-opted as a member of Council for the current year.
EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING
An Extraordinary General Meeting of the Society was held on
rhursday 14 December 1950, Mr W. H. Salter in the Chair. The
tollowmg Special Resolution was passed unanimously :
That for the words '
January or February '
in Article 37 of the Articles
of Association of the Incorporated Society for Psychical Research be
substituted the words '
March or April '.
NEW MEMBERS
Members
[Elected 21 September 1950)
Bryan, T. S., 2 West Park Avenue, Kew Gardens, Surrey.
Davidovich, p., Rua Paissandu 186, Apt. 203, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
y^^A'^- V 9°'""°''^ Victoria Street, Dargaville, North-
land, New Zealand.
Ha^ldane, Miss Charlotte, 25 Empire House, Thurloe Place, London,
HoBKiRK, Mrs N. L., 99 Eaton Place, London, S.W. i.
Lemon, C. G., D.Sc, Tidmarsh Grange, nr Pangbourne, Berks.
Lloyd-Owen, Capt. R. E., 18 Devas Road, Wimbledon, London,
o.W. 20. '
MusEL, R., 30 Bouverie Street, London, E C 4
Pal, R. D., M.B., B.S., 16 Queen's Gate Place, London, S.W 7
ScHOFiELD, A., 12 Beresford Drive, Southport, Lanes
Warren, Miss D. E., 30 Oakley Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Student-Associate
Bellamy, F., 13 James Street, Sth. Hiendley, nr Barnsley, Yorks.
Supplement to Jcurtial, March-April ig^l XV
Members
{Elected 31 October 1950)
Baker, Mrs H. L. S., Carrowduff House, Ballymacurley, Co.
Roscommon, Eire.
Booty, G. H., 4 Kings Gardens, West End Lane, London, N.W. 6.
Clyne, M. B., M.D., 150 Lady Margaret Road, Southall, Middx.
Cotton, Mrs Cecil, 19 Shooters Hill Road, Blackheath, London,
S.E. 3.
Jonas, Group Captain R. Carter, R.A.F., Colville, The Avenue,
Camberley, Surrey.
Lamon, S. B., 2000 Miramar Street, Los Angeles 4, Calif., U.S.A.
Maunsell, G. a., Jersey Farm, Hildenborough, Kent.
Moran, G. L., Jr., 700 Fairway Avenue, Visalia, Calif., U.S.A.
MuLCKHUYSE, J. J., 44 R. Vinkelskade, Amsterdam Z-i, Netherlands.
Newland, Miss J. E., 2 Savington Street, Paddington, London, W. 9.
NicOLLS, Mrs E., Cockatoo, Victoria, Australia.
Odutola, O. a., 37 Norfolk Road, Shirley, Southampton.
ROBBINS, Dr E. W., 503 Reed Street, Phila. 47, Pa., U.S.A.
ScHMEiDLER, Prof. Gertrude R., Ph.D., 229 West 97 Street, New
York 25, N.Y., U.S.A.
SiNNETT, Kenneth, 16 Kew Gardens Road, Kew, Surrey.
SiNNETT, Mrs K., 16 Kew Gardens Road, Kew, Surrey.
Smith, Rev. Alson J., 150 E. Superior, Chicago 11, 111., U.S.A.
Vaughan-Jones, T. G. C, P.O. Box 72, Lusaka, Northern Rhodesia.
Wilson, Dr Katharine, 3 Wythfield Road, London, S.E. 9.
ZuCKER, E. P., 46 Highcliffe Gardens, Ilford, Essex.
Student-Associates
Chatelenat, R. P., Douglas Hall, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
Coote, D. R., 22 Wimbledon Park Road, London, S.W. 18.
PuUan, P. W., 17 St Mark's Road, Enfield, Middx.
Members
[Elected 7 December 1950)
Addison, Barton, 62 Margaret Street, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
Grover, Mrs S. R., The Bridge Hotel, Chertsey, Surrey.
Kneale, Mrs Martha, M.A., 11 Holywell Street, Oxford.
LuTZ, Charles B., 906 Braniff Building, Oklahoma City, U.S.A.
Millar, G.W., 473 Collins A\ enue, Whitehall, Dublin, Eire.
Upright, Miss S., 40 Dorset Street, London, W. i.
Veal, Miss Irene, 31 Albemarle, Wimbledon Common, London,
S.W. 19.
xvi Supplement to Journal, March-April ig^i
Members
(Elected 2g January ig^i)
Bailhache, V. J., Constantia Lodge, Samares, Jersey, C. I.
Burke, C. J., 41 Gloucester Place, London, W. i.
Collins, G. E., M.Sc, Bridge End Lane, Prestbury, Macclesfield
Cheshire.
'
Hall, A. R., 95 Woodcock Hill, Kenton, Harrow, Middx
HoARE, Colonel R. R., D.S.O., M.C., 24 Buckingham Palace
Mansion, Buckingham Palace Road, London, S.W. i
Menon, M. a. p.. The Travancore Bank Ltd., Mattancherry P.O.
Cochin, S. India.
Nash, Professor Carroll B., St Joseph's College, Philadelphia
Pennsylvania, U.S.A.
'
O'Driscoll, Rev. C, O.S.A., Austin Friars, Carlisle, Cumberland.
Stevens, C. C, Fnars, Herongate, Brentwood, Essex.
Tapp, a. J., 164 Matlock Crescent, Cheam, Surrey.
Wright, F. S., 19 Paget Road, Wolverhampton, Staffs.
Student-Associates
Butler, J., West Street, Scotter, nr Gainsborough, Lines
Perry, M. C, 18 Kilwardby Street, Ashby-de-la-Zouch, Leics
Swmburn, W. R., 11 Briarfield Road, Cheadle Hulme, Cheshire
BINDING CASES FOR JOURNAL, 1949-50
Binding cases for Volume 35 (January 1949-December igco) are
now available, and may be obtained from the Secretary SPR
Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i, price 2s. 6d. Membe'rs who have
their copies bound are recommended to arrange for the four Supple-
ments (September 1949, January, May, and September 19 co) to be
bound in immediately after the relevant issues of the Journal
References to items in the Supplements have been included in the
Index to Volume 35, which was circulated with the Journal for March-
April 195 1.
It is regretted that the Society cannot arrange for the bindine of
members copies. °
JOURNAL
of the
Society for Psychical Research
Volume XXXVI No. 664 May-June 195
1
A CASE OF LEVITATION IN NEPAL
By E. a. Smythies, c.i.e.
(late Forest Adviser to the Government of Nepal)
The following is a full and detailed account of an extraordinary,
and to me inexplicable, incident which I saw in Kathmandu on
Friday, 8 August 1941, and on which I made notes at the time.
This account is based on those contemporary notes.
Before I describe the actual incident, some preliminary remarks
are necessary. I was told that some Nepalis have to do periodic
puja or sacrifice to their Bhagwan or spirit at their home village.
If they fail to do this at the right time, the Bhagwati comes,
wherever they may be, and possesses them. They lose conscious-
ness, dance and shout and behave madly while under control.
I had a young orderly called Krishna, aged about eighteen, who
had to do this puja, but when the time came, he did not go to his
home for the ceremony. Instead—or in consequence—he was
suddenly possessed at eight o'clock at night in our servants'
quarters. I went out and heard him making weird noises and
raving. At nine o'clock the seizure passed, and our other orderly,
the elder of the two, said he must be taken to his home (eight miles
away) at once, or the Bhagwan would keep on seizing him all
night. My Muhammedan bearer, Azmat, went also to help him
home, and when all three came back next day, Azmat had a quite
incredible story to tell of what he had seen and what had happened.
As I was not there personally, I shall not trouble my readers with
an account of it, but I told Azmat that if ever again a Bhagwan
visited our compound he was to let me know at once. I should
mention that Azmat, being a Muhammedan, had originally no
knowledge or belief in Hindu Bhagwans.
A month or two later we had a little dinner party, and after
dinner about nine p.m. we were sitting in the dark in the drawing-
room admiring a film of big game shooting in Nepal kindly sent by
H.H. the Maharaja, when Azmat came quietly into the room and
whispered in my ear, '
Bhagwan phir a gaya,' i.e. '
Bhagwan has
come again '. I did not want to disturb the party, so I slipped out
415
41 6 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may (
quietly, and went to the back of the house where the servants' ;
quarters were. These quarters were a building of brick and tiled A
roof divided into five rooms in a row, each room about ten feet by I
seven and eight feet high, with a small extension at the back for
|
cooking food, and a door three and a half by six feet high in front, !l
and well lit with an unshaded electric light bulb. In one of these \
little bare rooms—there was nothing in the room except a roll of
bedding in one corner and a small box in another—my elder |
orderly, aged about twenty-two and also called Krishna, was
squatting quite alone on the bare floor, dressed in a shirt and
khaki shorts with bare legs. His attitude was approximately as |
shown in the accompanying illustration (Figure I),^ cross-legged |
with his hands clasped between his legs. His head and body were i
shaking and quivering, his face appeared wet with sweat, and he
j
was making the most extraordinary noises. He seemed to me I
obviously unconscious of what he was doing or that a circle of |
rather frightened servants—and myself—were looking at him
through the open door at about eight or ten feet distance.
This went on for about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour,
when suddenly (with his legs still crossed and his hands clasped,
see Figure H) he rose about two feet in the air, and after about a j
Figure I Figure II
^ The illustrations were drawn to Mr Smythies's specifications by
Mrs Elizabeth Sulivan in December 1950.
—
Ed.
195 1 ] A Case of Levitation in Nepal 417
second bumped down hard on the floor. This happened again
twice, exactly the same except that his hands and legs became
separated.
One of the servants whispered that the Bhagwan was very angry
with Krishna and was punishing him by bumping him on the floor
in this way, which, I must admit, was just what it looked like.
The servants were becoming very frightened and worried, and I
was feeling very creepy myself at this inexplicable sight. Then
one of the Nepali servants produced a splinter of resinous wood,
which he lit and placed the burning end in Krishna's mouth for a
moment. The seizure continued unaltered for a brief interval,
and then suddenly it passed, and Krishna opened his eyes and
relaxed. He sat looking dazed but otherwise normal. Shortly
afterwards I left and returned to our party, from which I had been
absent for less than half an hour.
That is a detailed description of what I saw, and noted down
the next morning. I cannot explain it.
To touch on one or two more points :
(1) I am quite convinced there was no fake ; the whole thing
was unpremeditated and unexpected, with the orderly an unwill-
ing, or rather unconscious, medium of an extraordinary mani-
festation.
(2) There was no possibility of any apparatus, such as a thin
wire, having been rigged up to haul the man up and down.
There was an excellent light, and I was quite close, and could see
the whole of the small room. Nor could he have been pushed up
from below, since he was sitting on a bare solid brick floor. When
the levitation took place, the seven or eight other spectators, who
were all my servants, were outside the room with me, and could
not have '
assisted '
in any way.
(3) I was not in the least under the influence of alcohol (my
limit is one '
chota peg '), and nor were the servants around me,
who saw what I saw.
(4) It is, I think, an impossibility for anyone to jwnp from the
position shown in Figure I to that in Figure II. At any rate I
have tried it myself and cannot move an inch from the ground
.
The Nepalis say that a Bhagwan regards the person he takes
charge of as his own property, and never leaves him until death.
Usually he exerts a beneficial influence, but at times when angry
or annoyed, he takes violent control as exemplified above.
Editor's Comments
The incident described above was first brought to my notice
by Dr J. R. Smythies, a member of the Society. I am greatly
41 8 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
indebted to his father, Mr E. A. Smythies, for agreeing to write
j
an account of it.
The word '
levitation '
is usually applied to a phenomenon in
which the subject (or object) is alleged to remain suspended in the
air for an appreciable length of time. In this sense, the incident
described by Mr Smythies should not, strictly speaking, be termed
a levitation. It should, therefore, be understood that in the dis- '
cussion which follows the word is used for want of a more precise
and convenient term.
Cases of alleged levitation among non-western peoples are
usually reported by hearsay, less usually at second-hand. When
there are first-hand accounts, which is rarely, more often than
not they concern set performances given by a '
magician ' or j
holy man, often with a subject or '
pupil ', and are witnessed at a
distance laid down by the demonstrator. The only two cases
which I have been able to find in the Society's literature {Journal,
29, 275-7) exhibit some or all of these features. In both of them
the word '
levitation '
is used in its accepted sense, the duration of
levitation in one case being given by Lord Halifax as '
half-a-
minute or so '.
The account written by Mr Smythies is of interest for several
reasons : (i) it is at first-hand ; (2) it derives from notes^ written
at the time of the occurrence ; (3) the incident was apparently
spontaneous—that is, it does not appear to have been '
staged '
;
(4) the writer was able to observe it at a very short distance and in
good light ; (5) the subject was entirely alone in the room.
Mr Smythies has supplied the following further information at
my request : (i) the story told by A2mat (referred to in the second
paragraph of the report) concerned the apparent possession of the
younger Krishna—and, simultaneously, of an uncle of his—but
did not involve levitation ; (2) Mr Smythies was not prepared for
levitation to take place
—' I was certainly not ', he writes, '
expect-
ing anything like levitation '
; (3) the height of about two feet to
which the elder Krishna was levitated '
was a sort of average, his
feet a few inches lower, his seat about three feet up. That is the
impression I have '
; (4) Krishna did not immediately drop to the
Mr Smythies informs me, in reply to my inquiry, that these notes
were on some sheets of paper. He continues, '
Two or three years later,
when my wife was writing her book Tiger Lady [not yet published.
—
Ed.],
she incorporated my notes into one of her chapters
—"Life in Kath-
mandu ". I have hunted through her sheaves of papers, and cannot find {
now my original notes, but, in case of any use, I enclose three pages of
her original typescript. This was typed out years ago in Kathmandu (and
is not just a recent addition).' The details of the levitation given in the
typescript correspond with those in Mr Smythies's account, but there is
no mention of the number of servants present, the distance of the wit-
nesses from the subject of the levitation, or the conditions of lighting.
1951] A Case of Levitation in Nepal 419
ground after each levitation
—' I had the impression of one or two
seconds pause at the top—not more.' ; (5) all the servants who
witnessed the incident were aware that Mr Smythies understood
their language ; (6) there were no windows in any of the servants'
quarters. To my inquiry whether any of the servants said in so
many words that they saw Krishna raised off the ground, Mr
Smythies replied as follows :
I remember just after the levitation turning to my bearer (Azmat) who
was standing near me, and saying in the vernacular, '
What is happening
to him (Krishna) ', and he said (also in the vernacular), '
The Bhagwan
is very angry with him and is bumping him on the floor.' This clearly
suggested that he saw what I saw, and I never thought further of asking
him, or the other servants, what he or they had seen. In fact it never
even occurred to me that they could not have seen what I saw, and I
had no reason (then) for trying to get corroborative evidence or further
witness.
Mr Smythies does not know whether the elder Krishna or the
other servants were prepared for levitation to occur. He has no
information on the occurrence, or alleged occurrence, of the
phenomenon in Nepal, but informs me that the Director General
of Forests in Nepal at that time. Sir Kaiser Shumshere, to whom,
a few days later, he described what he had seen, said that he him-
self had not seen or heard of such cases before, though he knew of
Bhagwans. Mr Smythies is unable to say whether the subject of
the levitation was in the ordinary course of events liable to
epileptiform seizures, or whether the occurrence of epilepsy is
marked in Nepal.
By good fortune, and through the kindness of Mr P. V. Killick,
who is at present living in Kathmandu, and whose help I grate-
fully acknowledge, it has been possible to trace Mr Smythies's
former bearer, Azmat. (In writing to Mr Killick I did not, of
course, say what the incident was, explaining that it was '
extremely
important that if Azmat or any of his fellow-servants were now
questioned about the happening, nothing should be said which
would suggest a particular answer '. It should, perhaps, also be
said that Mr Killick and Mr Smythies are not known to each other,
and that my letter was sent to Mr Killick without Mr Smythies's
knowledge.) It will be best first to reproduce the relevant passages
in Mr Killick's letter from Kathmandu (dated 8 February 195 1).
I have examined Azmat and enclose a statement of his account of the
incident as he related it to me through the interpreter.
The interesting thing, to me, is that, although he recollected the
evening in question quite clearly, he insisted at first that nothing un-
usual had occurred. I then asked him if something had not occurred
in which Krishna was the central figure whereupon he said '
Oh that
'
A2
420 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
with an expression that impHed his surprise and some amusement that
anyone should be interested to hear about such an ordinary occurrence
all these years later!
He and the interpreter say they have both witnessed many such
incidents which they evidently accept as perfectly normal.
There are many stories of strange happenings among these simple
people and even among Gurkhas in British regiments—as, for example,
the British officer who went to a Gurkha soldier's hut and was saluted
smartly by him outside only to enter immediately and see him on his
bed undressed in an attitude of meditation. .
,
In a postscript, Mr Killick writes :
'
Azmat's account was
confirmed by my old ayah who was also a witness.'
The report enclosed with Mr Killick's letter is as follows :
REPORT OF INTERVIEW WITH AZMAT
In August 1 94 1, Azmat, the Indian bearer of Mr Smythies (then
British Forestry Adviser to the Government of Nepal) went to the
quarter of Krishna, Mr Smythies's orderly, and found him sitting cross-
legged with arms folded and shivering with bloodshot eyes. Krishna
said he was not feeling well. Azmat called Mr Smythies and some other
servants who lit a Dhup. A Dhup is a paper container about the size of
a cigarette containing incense and is lit and swallowed by someone
supposed to be possessed by an evil spirit.
Krishna swallowed the Dhup and suddenly rose about three feet in
the air remaining in the same posture with closed eyes and groaning.
He rose and descended rapidly about three or four times in quick
succession shaking violently.
Mr Smythies's gardener, who was present, is a Jharphuke (a man who
specialises in locating and driving away evil spirits) and he then uttered
in Nepali a Mantra (a charm) and placed a Tika (a small red circle
usually of rice or paper symbolising rice) upon Krishna's forehead
promising the evil spirit that Krishna would perform a Pooja (an
offering to the gods) the next day. Krishna then slept.
The following day Krishna sacrificed a sheep at a temple and drank
of its blood and the evil spirit was thereby placated and driven out of
his body.
The reason for his being possessed by the evil spirit was said to be
that he had failed to offer the customary annual sacrifice to the gods
who were therefore displeased with him.
Both Azmat and the interpreter (an educated Newar) said that there
was nothing unusual about this incident. People were frequently
possessed by evil spirits when they had done something displeasing to
the gods. Sometimes they rose up and down like Krishna. Sometimes
they talked a lot of rubbish. Sometimes they recalled past events in
which they themselves had never taken part or heard about. A Jharp-
huke is an ordinary working man who, by study and practice under a
teacher, acquires powers of divination and expulsion of spirits. They
are commonly used, for example, to name thieves or to detect and expel
195 1] ^ ^^^^ Levitation in Nepal 421
evil spirits from a new house and apparently are not motivated by
consideration of monetary gain.
Before writing to Mr Killick—which seemed to me to be a very
long shot—I had obtained statements from Mrs Smythies and
from Lt Col J. D. Ogilvy,i First Secretary in the British Legation
(as it then was) in Kathmandu at the time, who were present at the
showing of the film on the evening of 8 August 1941. Although
these statements became less important as evidence after the
arrival of the report of the interview with Azmat, they are of
interest for the information which they give about Mr Smythies's
reactions to his experience.
STATEMENT BY MRS SMYTHIES
5 January 195
i
I remember very well how my husband described at our party on
8th August 1 94 1 (the date is recorded in my diary) how he had seen our
orderly possessed by a '
Bhagwan ', and lifted up into the air by some
impossible means. He was quite excited about it, but although he was
perfectly sober, I found his account difficult to believe.
(Sgd) Olive Smythies
STATEMENT BY LT COL J. D. OGILVY
12 January 195
1
Your letter of 9th January [195 1] re phenomenon reported by Mr E.
A. Smythies on the evening of 8th August 1941 in Khatmandhu.
I am afraid that my memory is rather hazy about the event. I do
however remember being present at a film show of big game shooting in
Mr Smythies's house in Khatmandhu but do not remember any dates.
Mr Smythies was called out of the room and when he came back stated
that he had been summoned to deal with his orderly, who was behaving
queerly in his quarters. He went on to state that the other servants said
that a spirit had entered into the orderly and that he, Mr Smythies, saw
the orderly levitated above the ground without any apparent effort or
support. After a time the spirit was supposed to have left the orderly
who came down to earth again.
I saw the orderly at various times afterwards but did not know him
well—he struck me as being rather anaemic.
I did not see the phenomenon of levitation nor do I remember any
further particulars.
(Sgd) John D. Ogilvy
nt may be regarded as relevant that Mr Smythies had lost touch with
Colonel Ogilvy, and that I had to trace his present whereabouts myself.
I need hardly say that no mention of levitation was made in my letter to
him.
422 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
Dr E. J. Dingwall, to whom I am much indebted for the
interest which he has taken in this case, has drawn my attention to
a passage in E. T. Dalton's Descriptive Ethnology of Bengal
(Calcutta, 1872). In discussing ceremonies occurring at the
worship of Gansam^ among the Muasi (or Kiirs or Kiirkus), one
of the tribes of the Central Provinces of India, Dalton quotes an
account which he obtained from Captain W. S. Samuells, then
Assistant Commissioner, Chutia Nagpiir. It was apparently in
writing or by word of mouth, for Samuells does not seem to have
committed it to print. The account, in which I have italicized those
passages which show a particularly close resemblance to the descrip-
tions given by Mr Smythies and Azmat, is as follows:
The Baiga [priest] is always the medium of communication, but he
assembles the people to aid him in the invocation. Musical instruments
are produced, dancing commences, and the invocation to the spirit is
chanted until one or more of the performers manifest possession by wild
rolling of the eyes and involuntary spasmodic action of the muscles.
The affection appears contagious, and old women and others who have
not been dancing become influenced by it in a manner that is horrible
to contemplate. Captain Samuells, who frequently witnessed the
incantation, is confident that no deception whatever is practised. As at
revivals where similar scenes are produced by professing Christians,
each person seized or exalted loses for a time all self-control, and the
body, limbs, and neck are worked in the most exhaustive manner, till
the Baiga interposes and relieves the victim.
The affection, says Captain Samuells, comes on like a fit of ague,
lasting sometimes for a quarter of an hour, the patient or possessed
person writhing and trembling with intense violence, especially at the
commencement of the paroxysm. Then he is seen to spring from the
ground into the air, and a succession of leaps follow, all executed as
though he were shot at [possibly a printer's error for '
up '.
—
Ed.,
S.P.R. Journal] by unseen agency. During this stage of the seizure he
is supposed to be quite unconscious, and rolls into the fire, if there be
one, or under the feet of the dancers without sustaining injury from the
heat or the pressure. This lasts for a few minutes only, and is followed
by the spasmodic stage. With hands and knees on the ground and hair
loosened, the body is convulsed, and the head shakes violently, whilst
from the mouth issues a hissing or gurgling noise. The patient next
evincing an inclination to stand on his legs, the bystanders assist him
and place a stick in his hand, with the aid of which he hops about, the
spasmodic action of the body still continuing and the head performing
by jerks a violently fatiguing circular movement. This may go on for
hours, though Captain Samuells says that no one in his senses could
* The Gansdm of the Mudsf deserves a footnote. He was said to have
been formerly a chief who was devoured by a tiger just after his marriage.
'
Cut off at such a moment ', says Dalton, ' it was unreasonable to suppose
that his spirit would rest.' He owed his apotheosis to the feat of having,
one year after his death, visited his wife and got her with child.
195 1] A Case of Levitation in Nepal 423
continue such exertion for many minutes. When the Baiga is appealed
to, to cast out the spirit, he must first ascertain whether it is Gansam
himself or one of his famihars that has possessed the victim. If it be the
great Gansam, the Baiga implores him to desist, meanwhile gently
anointing the victim with butter ; and if the treatment is successful,
the patient gradually and naturally subsides into a state of repose from
which he rises into consciousness, and restored to his normal state,
feels no fatigue or other ill-effects from the attack, (pp. 232-3).
This is the only eye-witness account of phenomena at all similar to
those described by Mr Smythies which I have been able to trace,
even with Dr Dingwall's help.
In discussing the evidence in this case, the first points to note
are (i) that the possibility of trickery seems remote, (2) that since
Mr Smythies was not expecting levitation to occur, the hypo-
thesis of suggestion is unlikely to cover his experience, even if
one were to discount Azmat's evidence, (3) that Azmat's testi-
mony corresponds with Mr Smythies's account in all material
points as regards the levitation itself (which suggests that the
incident must have made a strong impression on his mind at the
time).
Mr Smythies says of Krishna that '
suddenly (with his legs still
crossed and his hands clasped, see Figure II) he rose about two
feet in the air '
; Azmat's statement says that he was '
sitting cross-
legged with arms folded ', and that he '
suddenly rose about three
feet in the air remaining in the same posture '. As both observers
use the word '
rose ', and as neither mentions any leap or spring,
it appears that they both received the impression that no effort
was involved. If Krishna did indeed rise two feet (or even one
foot) clear of the ground by no effort of his own, then he did so by
no known means.
It is, however, necessary to consider the possibility that, while
appearing to the observers to rise without effort, he did in fact
leap upwards. It is mechanically impossible for a person sitting
with legs crossed and with hands in lap or arms folded to spring
more than an inch or two clear of the ground, and this can only
be done by swinging the body forward and then sharply backward
in an unmistakable efTort. (If the feet are tucked under the
thighs, the body can be thrust just clear of the ground ; if they
are crossed in front of the seat, it cannot be done.) An experienced
teacher of ballet very kindly made the attempt in my presence,
with the results described. A European practitioner of Yoga was
no more successful. (It must be recorded that she was confident
of being able to propel herself at least two feet up into the air after
a month or two of practice. As, however, she made several other
claims—including the ability to make herself completely invisible
424 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
—but was not prepared to give a practical demonstration of any
of them, this confidence was not impressive.)
Is it possible that Krishna, at the moment of rising into the air,
was not sitting cross-legged but that he sprang up from a squatting !
position and at the same time drew his legs up under him so that
he appeared to have risen with legs crossed? In this case he would |
have had to land in a squatting position after the first and second
'
jumps (assuming that there were three in all) while after the third
he would presumably have landed with legs crossed. It has been
suggested that a very muscular person might be able to perform \
this feat with practice, but I have not succeeded in finding anyone
willing to make the attempt.^ It would certainly be difficult to do ]
without having the arms free to maintain the balance. We cannot .
tell whether Krishna could have done it. He does not appear to I
have been of poor physique, for although he is described by
Colonel Ogilvy as '
rather anaemic ', Mr Smythies, who presum-
ably knew him better, tells me that he was well built, muscular,
and healthy, and puts his height at about 5 feet 8 inches and his
weight at about io\ stone. It seems unlikely that Mr Smythies,
after having watched Krishna sitting on the groundwith legs crossed
for ten minutes, could have failed to notice if he had worked himself
into a squatting position. Is it possible that he did notice it at the
time, but afterwards overlooked it? Against this one must set the
testimony of Mrs Smythies and Colonel Ogilvy. And would Mr j
Smythies have described himself as '
feeling very creepy at this i
inexplicable sight '
if he had merely witnessed three leaps, how- \
ever phenomenal?
Many of the details given by Captain Samuells are almost
identical with those in Mr Smythies's description, and it is
interesting to note that the duration of a quarter of an hour which
he gives for the preliminary '
fit of ague '
corresponds so closely
with the '
ten minutes or a quarter of an hour '
mentioned by Mr
Smythies as the length of time that Krishna's head and body were
shaking and quivering before he rose from the ground. Mr '
Smythies's comments on Captain Samuells's account (of which he
had not previously heard) are as follows :
The '
wild rolling of the eyes and involuntary spasmodic action of the
muscles '
is very typical of what I saw in Kathmandu in Aug. 1941.
Also the '
writhing and trembling with intense violence ', the '
spring
from the ground into the air . . . executed as though he were shot up by
unseen agency ', is a very good description, but it was hardly a spring.
* I should be interested to hear from anyone—ballet dancer, acrobat,
or Yogi—who felt confident of being able to demonstrate this. A member
of the Council of the Society has kindly offered to make a cin6 film of any
demonstration which seems likely to throw any light on the question.
195 1] A Case of Levitation in Nepal 425
It is a great pity that Captain Samuells, despite his insatiable
curiosity,^ did not describe the position of the possessed person
at the moment of rising from the ground. Whatever it was, it is
quite clear that he regarded him as propelhng himself upwards
by his own efforts.
Although it is a work which is based largely on hearsay, and
should be read with great caution, Mme Alexandra David-Neel's
Mystiques et Magiciens du Thibet (Paris, Plon, 1929) contains a
passage which it may be interesting to quote. It describes the
training of runners who are said to travel at great speed over long
distances in Tibet in their task of summoning demons to the
ceremony of propitiating Shinjed, the god of death. The passage
is as follows :
The training consists of breathing and gymnastic exercises practised
in complete darkness in a tshams khang in strict seclusion for three
years, three months, three weeks, and three days.
Among these exercises there is one which enjoys the favour of many
self-styled mystics who are not of an especially intellectual type. Not
only members of religious orders but laymen also, both men and
women, undertake prolonged '
retreats '
in order to devote themselves
to it. It is as follows :
The student sits cross-legged on a large and thick cushion. He
inhales slowly and for a long time [lentement et longuement], as if he
wanted to inflate himself with air. Then, holding his breath, and with-
out using his hands, he jumps up, still keeping his legs crossed, and falls
back without changing his position. Some lamas succeed in jumping
to a very great height in that way [sauter, ainsi, a une tres grande
hauteur].
According to Tibetans, those who apply themselves to this method of
training for several years become capable of sitting on an ear of corn
without bending the stalk, or of standing on the top of a heap of barley
without displacing a single grain. In fact, the aim is levitation.^
No indication of the height of these jumps is given. Nor are we
very much wiser after reading, a few paragraphs later, Mme David-
Neel's comment on a claim that after such training it is possible for
a person to jump vertically with legs crossed to twice his own
height. '
I have heard Tibetans from Kham maintain', she writes,
'
that they have witnessed feats of this kind in their country.
^ At the end of his chapter on the Muasi, Dalton drily remarks that
'
Captain Samuells was unable to induce a Muasi to die, in order that he
might, as an eye-witness, describe what then takes place '. (op. cit.
p. 234). It may, of course, have been Dalton who omitted to quote
Samuells fully as to the posture of the possessed person.
^ I have translated this from the French edition (pp. 208-9) as the
English edition (published in 193 1 under the title With Mystics and
Magicians in Tibet) is not only not an exact rendering but contains
remarks which do not appear in the original.
426 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
However, those whom I have myself seen jumping have not seemed
to me at all capable of such an exploit.' We are given no details
of the personal experiences to which she refers.
To judge from the reported remarks of Azmat and the Newar,
it would appear that the simple folk of Nepal regard levitation as
one of the possible consequences of failure to do puja. If, as Mr
Smythies's account leads us to suppose, the phenomenon does
indeed occur, it is perhaps not beyond the bounds of possibility
that its operation may be related to the unquestioning belief of the
victim in its reality.
Mr Smythies appears to have witnessed something which
Europeans are rarely privileged to see. One can only hope that
the publication of this report will lead to the collection of further
evidence which may throw some light on this puzzling matter.
E. O.
VISUAL HALLUCINATION OF THE SELF
By J. C. Flugel
In a recent number of the British Medical Journal^ the distin-
guished French neuro-psychiatrist Jean Lhermitte, who has been
on a visit to this country, contributes an interesting article on
'
autoscopy '
or '
visual hallucination of the self ', in which he
passes in review some of the numerous literary treatments of this
theme and shows that clinical evidence provides many close
parallels to the descriptions by the gifted authors who have been
fascinated by this subject. The record of real or supposedly real
cases of seen '
doubles '
begins with Aristotle and continues in
modern times with reports from a number of psychiatrists of the
highest reputation. Goethe is among those who claim to have
seen such a '
double '
of themselves (though '
when I shook my
head at the sight of this delusion it disappeared '). For the most
part, however, it seems to appear to those who are suffering from
some form of nervous or mental disease, such as epilepsy, general
paralysis, encephalitis, post-traumatic disorders, or focal lesions of
the brain—and to these mostly, though not invariably, when they
are lost in thought or in states of drowsiness ; while in the case of
epileptics the vision seems liable to occur about the time of their
seizures. With regard to these latter, there is a tantalizingly brief
statement to the effect that the double has been seen not only by
the patient himself but ' by others present during the patient's fit '.
* No. 4704, 3 March 1951.
195 1] Visual Hallucination of the Self 427
If this is substantiated, we have presumably to deal with cases
of collective hallucination ; otherwise we are faced only by a
particularly interesting and impressive form of individual hallu-
cinatory delusion.
This, however, raises problems enough, of great interest alike to
the psychiatrist, the psychologist, and the student of psychical
research. Attempted explanations of the phenomenon have been
along two main lines, neurological and psychological. It is the
former which Professor Lhermitte adumbrates in this article, his
suggestions being based chiefly on the work of Henry Head and
Gordon Holmes on the one hand and on that of Paul Schilder on
the other. The first-named authors drew attention to the sensori-
motor elements in the nervous system through which we become
aware of our postural attitudes and the relative position of the
various parts of our body, while Schilder elaborated these and
similar findings into a more general treatment of the '
body-
scheme '
or '
body-image '. This image can be distorted through
various diseases of the nervous system, though the precise nature
of the lesions or disturbances involved is still to some extent
hypothetical. Other interesting modern accounts will be found in
articles by G. Bychowski (' Disorders of the Body Image ',
J.
Nerv. Ment. Dis., 1943, 97, 313) and W. Clifford M. Scott (' Some
Embryological, Neurological, Psychiatric and Psycho-analytic
Implications of the Body Scheme '
(Int. J. Psycho-Anal., 1948, 29,
141). The former, after describing various cases, quotes another
authority (Menninger-Lerchenthal) as regarding '
autoscopia as a
visual kinesthetic hallucination of the body-image, which becomes
split by the action of a mechanism linked with the vestibular
organ, the brain stem, and the parieto-occipital cortex'. From
further considerations it would appear that the vision may be
related to the failure of a '
binding process '
connected with the
parietal and thalamic regions, in the absence or disturbance of
which process stimuli usually integrated with the body-image find
a sensory centrifugal discharge and are attributed to the outer
world.
The psychological explanation (to which Lhermitte does not
here refer, but which of course does not exclude the existence of a
neurological basis or predisposition) involves the psycho-analytic
mechanism of '
projection ', in which '
repressed mental processes,
not recognized as being of personal origin, are attributed to the
external world and (often) experienced as an outer perception '.
The division into '
inner '
and '
outer '
under these circumstances
frequently takes place along the lines of a crude separation be-
tween '
good '
and '
bad '
qualities. Most often it is the '
bad '
aspects which are projected, as in paranoia, where the patient's own
A3
428 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
unrecognized aggressive or sexual impulses may be attributed to
others. This would fit in well with a case described by Lhermitte
himself, in which the '
astral body '
of a girl (who is described as
'
good and pious ') was felt by her to be '
in the grip of Satan ', who
would torture it and inflict upon it sexual outrages. (This
patient had, it may be noted, suffered from epidemic encephalitis
a few years before these phenomena appeared). Sometimes,
however, it may be the '
good '
part, the super-ego, which is
projected—a process which is represented in certain current
advertisements in which a shadovv^y admonitory self appears,
and which occurs in Poe's tale of William Wilson.
A more complete understanding of autoscopy would probably
involve a knowledge of its relations to certain other phenomena
with which it may well have some important elements in common.
Within the sphere of psychical research are the materializations
produced by certain mediums, in so far as genuine phenomena of
this kind may occur (though these differ from autoscopy in that
they are seldom, if ever, '
doubles '
of an actual sitter). More
definitely germane to autoscopy are the appearances (visual or
kinesthetic) of parts of a patient's body (as distinct from an
apparently complete personality) —as in the feeling of '
phantom
limbs '
after amputation, or of supernumerary members (a case
of a kinesthetically present third arm was, I understand, recently
reported by a well-known neurologist), or of the patient mentioned
by Bychowski '
who discovered parts of her body in the environ-
ment '. These merge into the numerous cases of general lack of
appreciation of the spatial relations between various parts of the
body or of their relative size or shape, of general disturbances in
the judgment of spatial relations (' metamorphopsia '
when this is
visual), or of seeing objects double or multiple (' polyopia ') ;
while in the last resort we find ourselves involved in the whole
problem of distinguishing the self from the outer world.
Apart from hallucinations, and in addition to paranoia to which
we have already alluded, we have such varied examples of pro-
jection as are involved in the '
imaginary companions '
of children,
in the process of falling in love (in which some psychologists have
recognized as a significant factor the projection of the lover's
'
good '
aspects or ego-ideal), and in religious and political enthus-
iasms (in which there is often a '
splitting '
along the lines of
'
good '
and '
bad ', the good elements being ascribed to a divine
being or human leader, the bad to a devil or to political, racial or
national '
enemies '). Processes in some respects the opposite of
these (inasmuch as they imply a reduction rather than an extension
of the self or body-image) are to be found in the various kinds of
depersonalization or of loss of the sense of unity with certain parts
195 1 ] Reviews 429
of the body (' my hand doesn't belong to me ') even when sensa-
tion in the parts concerned seems to be intact. Allied to these in
some ways, though with the significant difference that they are
demonstrable in '
normal '
individuals, are the interesting results
obtained in such experiments as those described by Werner Wolff
in his Expression of Personality (1943). Here the subjects were
shown photographs of their own hands, profiles, mirror writing,
etc., along with three examples of each kind obtained from others.
They could not as a rule pick out their own photographs, but,
when asked to comment on the whole series, almost invariably
displayed greater interest and affect (manifested both in approval
and in disapproval or distrust) in their own samples than in those
of others. They seem therefore to have had something like un-
conscious or repressed recognition, in which feelings towards the
self played an important part. Finally, there are the phenomena of
'
dissociated personality ', in which, too, the cleavage often seems
to take place along developmental or quasi-moral lines (a secondary
personality being in quite a number of the recorded cases more
childish or irresponsible than the primary or '
normal '
one).
A deeper study of the similarities and differences in the physio-
logical and psychological processes underlying these various types
of phenomena would hardly fail to cast much further light upon
the strange and disturbing experience of autoscopy. It is not
without good reason that so many authors have been intrigued by
the theme of the Doppelgdnger, for it raises neurological, psychia-
tric, psychological, and philosophical issues which take us deep
into the very heart of the most intimate of all our problems : that
of human personality.
REVIEWS
'
The Theoretical Implications of Telepathy '. By Margaret
Knight. Article in Science News 18. Edited by J. L.
Crammer. Harmondsworth, Penguin Books, 1950. is. 6d.
The account by Dingwall and Parsons of the Shackleton experi-
ments in card-guessing and the picture-guessing experiments of
Whately Carington which appeared in Science News 9 has now
been followed up, in Science News 18, by an interesting article by
Margaret Knight on the theoretical implications of telepathy.
The author, who was at one time on the staff of the National
Institute of Industrial Psychology, is the wife of the Professor of
Psychology in the University of Aberdeen.
430 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
Mrs Knight admits that recent experiments in ESP, such as
the Shackleton series, appear to be impervious to criticism and she
dismisses the usual objections such as faint sensory ones, faulty
statistics, or unwarranted selection of data which have so often
been urged by psychologists against the positive results obtained
in this field. The most disturbing thing she says about the ^
Shackleton results is that they involve precognition with its
apparent implications that causation can work backwords in time.
This precognitive aspect of ESP has been thought by many
psychical researchers to preclude the possibility of our ever finding j
any physical explanation of telepathy. But Mrs Knight, like
Professor J. B. S. Haldane, is not convinced that this argument is a
sound one. She thinks it no more incredible that future physical
events should influence a present physical event than that future
mental events should be able to influence a mental event in the
present. The author admits, however, that there is no experi-
mental evidence whatever that a human brain can pick up radia-
tions emanating from another brain, and no reason to suppose
that even were this proved to be possible it would result in the
owners of the two brains having similar mental experiences.
Mrs Knight is possibly right in saying that in the present state
of our knowledge there is little justification for the oft-repeated
assertion that '
telepathy is independent of space or distance '. I
agree that a vast amount of systematic experiment with the same
agent and percipient at varying distances is required before we can t,
conclude that telepathic reception is unafi^ected by distance. It is
also true that a good many long-range tests have produced results
which are only of borderline significance. I do not think, however, <
that the author is factually accurate in her statement that '
the
longest distance over which results of undoubted significance have
been obtained is some 200 miles—between London and Merksem
in Belgium '
(p. 14). Rhine himself has reported highly significant
results over longer distances in his first book Extrasensory
Perception.
While Mrs Knight thinks that no hypotheses put forward to
account for telepathy and precognition are entirely plausible, she
considers that the late H. F. Saltmarsh's theory of the extension of
the '
specious present ' is the best we have so far achieved with
regard to precognition. This theory would naturally appeal to a
psychologist, but it seems to me that the theory succeeded by
evading the formidable metaphysical difficulties of the problems.
It was, however, a brilliant efl:ort. There is no mention of Caring-
ton's '
Association Theory '
of telepathy, but the author appears
to favour the view that at the subconscious level minds are not
entirely separate entities. If it is true that electrical and chemical
1951] Reviews 431
changes in the brain of A can produce conscious experiences not
only in the mind of A but also in the mind of B, then we are driven
to the conclusion that the two minds are not entirely distinct.
Since no psychologist has been able to explain how a physical
event or events in A's brain can give rise to a conscious experience
in A's mind, then psychologists who swallow this miracle without
any fuss ought to be prepared to accept the further miracle that
occasionally physical activity in A's brain may give rise to a
conscious experience in B's mind. And why not, if mental
experiences are not spatial events?
The author suggests that ESP does not mark a new stage in
evolution but may be the vestige of a primitive faculty derived from
the lower animals and which is best observed in the behaviour of
birds and social insects. Whether we agree or not with the author's
views, they are expressed with scrupulous fairness and it is surely
significant that a professional psychologist should endorse the
opinion of another distinguished psychologist, Dr Thouless, that
ESP has now been established beyond reasonable doubt and that
it is a waste of time to conduct experiments merely to demonstrate
the existence of the faculty. Our efforts should now be directed
towards an understanding of the conditions under which it occurs
and the practical control of its functioning.
S. G. SOAL
Sixty Years of Psychical Research : Houdini and I among the
Spiritualists. By Joseph F. Rinn. New York, Truth Seeker
Company, 1950. xviii, 618 pp. S5.00.
Mr Rinn is a business man who, according to the Introduction
to his book, '
began his long public career [i.e. as investigator] in an
earnest endeavour to discover scientific evidence of a future life.
He realised that once communication was established with the
dead and we beheld the spirits of the departed, all doubts would be
dispelled concerning a life after death . .
.' It was not unnatural
that his endeavour to behold the spirits of the departed should
have led him into the shady bypaths of the psychic underworld, or
that there he should have met nothing but fraud. This, as was
also natural, if regrettable, produced a violent reaction against all
forms of mediumship, and a bias against all psychic phenomena,
mediumistic or not.
To quote the Introduction once more :
'
A member of the
British Society for Psychical Research, Mr Rinn withdrew from
the organisation when he painfully realised that it was more
concerned in protecting and pampering mediums, and in covering
their tracks, than in exposing them '. Mr Rinn's sole connection
with the S.P.R. was that he was an associate of the American
432 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
Branch of it for about four years, from 1897, during the period when
the Society strictly adhered to its policy of refusing to investigate ,1
mediums previously detected in deliberate trickery, a strange way
of '
protecting and pampering '
them! This was not a very
long time in which to form a considered judgment on a subject
as complex and obscure as we all know psychical research to be.
But then for Mr Rinn there are no complexities, nothing more than
fraudulent mediums, a gullible public, and gullible or dishonest
investigators. What need for psychological subtleties? Is not
Mr Rinn a trained conjurer, and cannot he at a pinch consult
Houdini?
How magnificently that oracle disposed of hypnotism as '
a big
fake '! Even Mr Rinn was inclined at first to jib at this sweeping
pronouncement, but all his doubts were dispelled when Houdini
introduced him to a man who claimed to have been a paid con-
federate of Charcot. Whether or not there is any truth in the
story to which this self-accused confederate confessed, I do not
know, but it would in any event have little bearing on the status
of hypnotic research. Hypnotism, it is well to remember, was put
on a scientific basis as the result of the long labours of many
scientists in different countries. For a time the French took the
lead, and among the various French schools of the Salpetriere,
Nancy, etc. there was vigorous mutual criticism. Any taking of
results on a large scale by one school would quite certainly have
been denounced by the others.
But Mr Rinn has a tenderness for the '
confessions '
of self-
confessed scoundrels implicating alleged confederates who are not
in a position to reply, as is shown by his keenness to swallow the
'
confession '
of Blackburn, who, however, was careless enough not
to ascertain that the man against whom he '
confessed '
was not
dead, as he supposed, but very much alive and kicking : see
S.P.R. Journal, XV.
Mr Rinn is much too fond of charges of dishonesty against other
investigators, which he scatters as freely as he does challenges of
thousands of dollars to anyone who will produce genuine psychic
phenomena, under conditions, of course, that he approves. The
failure to take up these challenges he regards as proof that no
genuine phenomena occur, but his own controversial manners
have to be taken into account, as in his attack on our former
President, Walter Prince (pp. 469-70). It appears from the New
York American of 19 August 1924, which he quotes, that Prince
and Houdini were debating the reality of psychic phenomena in a
New York church when '
Joseph F. Rinn entered the discussion
with a direct attack on Dr Prince's sincerity '. The meeting broke
up in disorder and as the crowd pressed to the doors Mr Rinn
I
195 1] Reviews 433
declared, '
That man is a liar because he makes his living out of
that nonsense '.
Prince was at that time risking his livelihood by the firm line he
was taking as a member of the Committee appointed by the
Scientific American in criticising '
Margery '. Her supporters at
that time dominated the American S.P.R., and Prince lost his
position as Research Officer of that Society in consequence, as well
as incurring much personal abuse. Houdini, Prince's colleague on
the Committee, testifies warmly to his integrity, and so would
many still living in America and this country who remember him
with honour and affection. But without compunction or apology
Mr Rinn twenty-six years later repeats the calumny.
Just what are Mr Rinn's qualifications to pose as a judge of
psychical researchers? What sort of investigations has he con-
ducted and with what subjects? The Introduction says, 'The
pageant of seance deceptionists passes before the eye in colourful
succession ', and about two dozen names are given. If the list be
analysed, it would appear that in his unregenerate days, while he
still had an open mind, he had contacts with two of the Fox sisters
and Slade ; that later he had a single sitting with Mrs Piper, and
another with Eusapia Palladino ; and that the rest of the list
consists either of mediums with whom he never sat or persons
whose importance in psychical research was not equal to their
local and transient notoriety. I have not noticed in the book any
mention of investigations by Mr Rinn of poltergeists, haunted
houses, apparitions, or other spontaneous phenomena, or any
experiments by him in telepathy or clairvoyance, apart from the
exposure of sundry public performers.
Let us consider whether in his two sittings with Mrs Piper and
Eusapia respectively he did anything to advance knowledge of
their mediumships. In 1896 Mr Rinn visited a '
temple '
in
Boston where a medium, Concannon, and his wife produced
materializations which he recognized as fraudulent. Shortly after
his visit some of his friends made a thorough exposure, grabbing a
'
spirit ' robe, wig, etc. and leaving a nearly'naked Concannon.
After quoting a newspaper account of the incident, Mr Rinn
continues :
This exposure should have shaken my belief that a genuine medium
existed, but the manifestations in Mr Ayer's temple [where the exposure
had taken place] continued to be regarded by Spiritualists as un-
doubtedly genuine, and the members of the Society for Psychical
Research did not lose faith. We had been fed with stories of the
wonderful performances and psychic power of Mrs Leonora Piper,
although a preliminary report had not yet been issued by Dr Richard
Hodgson, who had her in charge.
434 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
This short paragraph is replete with absurdities. Why should the
exposure of Concannon, whose fraud was of a very gross kind, cast
doubt on mediumship in general? If the members of the S.P.R.
did not '
lose faith '
in Concannon, as Mr Rinn's sentence sug-
gests, it was because the majority had never heard of him and had
no faith in him to lose. Why bracket him with Mrs Piper, whose
phenomena were of quite a different type? As for Dr Hodgson
not having produced a preliminary report on her, two long reports
on her had already been published in S.P.R. Proceedings, one
(vol. VI, 436-659) by Myers, Lodge, Leaf, and James, and the
other (vol. VIII 1-167) by Hodgson himself.
These reports had established several points concerning the
Piper mediumship, such as {a) that it was difficult to take the
Controls, e.g. Phinuit, unreservedly at their face value ;
{b) that
sometimes they made incorrect statements and were unable to
answer questions correctly ;
[c) that the medium, when in trance,
could and probably did pick up information from the sitters by
muscle-reading (see Proceedings VI ;
Lodge's remarks on p. 451,
and Leaf's on p. 562),^ but also {d) that there was no ground for
supposing that in her normal state she obtained information as to
the sitters, their friends etc. and (e) that, when all allowances had
been made for (a), {b) and (c), she had genuine psychic powers.
When, therefore, in an interview with Hodgson after his sitting
in 1896, Mr Rinn brought up muscle-reading, etc., etc., as a
sufficient explanation of Mrs Piper's phenomena, it was not
unnatural that Hodgson, with his much longer experience of
mediumistic trickery, should have shown impatience. Mr Rinn
suggests that this was because Hodgson was '
of the English
gentleman type '
and unduly touchy. Hodgson was in fact a very
unconventional, plain-spoken Australian, well accustomed to the
rough and tumble of controversy.
At the time of Mr Rinn's sitting the principal Control and one
of the principal Communicators at the Piper sittings was George
Pellew, who had died in 1892 and is called in the printed records
'
George Pelham '
or '
G.P.'. In 1921 Mr Rinn learnt to his
'
amazement '
(p. 175) '
that documentary evidence existed from
the family of " G.P." that a fictitious story was built about the life
of his former friend by Dr Hodgson to justify his change to the
spiritistic hypothesis, and that most of the statements made about
" G.P." in Dr Hodgson's report [in S.P.R. Proceedings, XIII]
were absolute falsehoods '. (The italics are Mr Rinn's). On p. 180
he says, '
Dr Hodgson lied outrageously on many important points
in relation to " G.P." and his family.'
The only evidence Mr Rinn puts forward in support of these
^ In the later stages of the mediumship this could not occur.
1951] Reviews 435
sweeping statements is a letter written in 191 8, more than twelve
years after Hogdson's death, by '
G.P.'s ' brother, Professor
Pellew, to Clodd, the RationaHst author. It is a long letter, taking
up nearly four pages of print. The first half of the letter is to the
effect that the Pellew family refused to accept the '
G.P.' com-
munications as coming from the real George Pellew, mainly
because they did not reflect his intellectual standards. This was a
matter of opinion, and there is no suggestion of any false statement
by Hodgson. The latter part of the letter does accuse him of
having in one instance misrepresented the facts, not about ' G.P.',
but about a sitter, John Fiske's, opinion of his sitting. Professor
Pellew had been shown by his parents '
a curious letter from
Hodgson. It was somewhat to this effect '. The substance of
the letter, as so recollected, was that after a Piper sitting Fiske had
told Hodgson that he was absolutely convinced that he had been
talking to his old friend, George Pellew. A few weeks later
Professor Pellew, as he says in his letter to Clodd, met Fiske, who
stigmatised Mrs Piper as '
that old fraud ', and denied that he had
ever thought that through her he had conversed with George
Pellew.
The Fiske story is, of course, the loosest hearsay, depending on
Professor Pellew's admittedly vague recollection (' somewhat to
this effect ') of a letter he had seen at some unspecified previous
date and of his memory of a conversation, also of uncertain date^
with Fiske. It would not begin to be evidence without having the
exact terms of Hodgson's letter, and a first-hand statement by
Fiske as to exactly what his comments on the letter were. He
should also state when the sitting in question occurred and what
report on it, if any, he gave to Hodgson at the time. This might
enable some contemporary written record of the sitting and of
annotations by Fiske to be traced, and these would of course be
evidence worth attention.
The story given in the letter is not a plausible one. By the
testimony of all who worked with him in this country or America,
whether or not they agreed with his views, Hodgson was a man of
honour. But even if they had all been mistaken on this point, he
could not have risked misrepresenting things that happened at or
in connexion with sittings which he was supervising. If any of
the Pellew family, or Fiske, or anyone else had during Hodgson's
life reported a single case of misrepresentation by him to any
member of the S.P.R. Council in England or to any of his Ameri-
can colleagues, and had been able to substantiate the charges, that
would have been the end of Hodgson's career in psychical research.
*
Mrs Piper's Confession. Disclaims Contact with the Spirit
World.' So runs the heading of one of Mr Rinn's chapters
436 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
(p. 195). By this time it will come as no surprise to the reader
to learn that Mrs Piper never made a '
Confession '
at all. In the
summer of 1901 Mrs Piper gave an interview to a journalist, and
on 20 October of that year the New York Herald published a long
statement purporting to be made by her, and in fact based on the
interview. The statement contains the following passages :
'
I have always maintained that these [psychic] phenomena could
be explained in other ways than by the intervention of disem-
bodied spirit forces. The theory of telepathy strongly appeals to
me as the most plausible and genuine scientific solution of the
problem.' And later on, Mrs Piper says, or at any rate, the
journalist reports her as saying :
'
I do not believe that spirits of
the dead have spoken through me when I have been in a trance
state.' On Mrs Piper's attention being drawn to the New York
Herald article she promptly dictated a statement which appeared
in the Boston Advertiser of 25 October 1901 : 'I did not make any
such statement as that published in the Nezv York Herald to the
effect that spirits of the departed do not control me. . . . Spirits
of the departed may have controlled me and they may not. I
confess that I do not know.' This latter statement Mr Rinn does
not quote. But whether or not the New York Herald was justified
in reporting Mrs Piper as saying she did not believe the spirits of
the dead had spoken through her, the use of the word '
Confession
'
by Mr Rinn was quite unjustified. For many years prior to this
interview two views of the Piper communications had been dis-
cussed by psychical researchers. One was that they came from
spirits of the departed ; and the other was that Mrs Piper's sub-
conscious mind received the substance of them by telepathy, the
Controls and Communicators who manifested in the trance being
subconscious dramatisations somewhat akin to secondary person-
alities. The second hypothesis, which Mrs Piper according to the
interview preferred, no more implies dishonesty, as the word
'
Confession '
does, than the first. It appears from the report on
the episodes in S.P.R. Journal X, pp. 142-3, 150-2, that the New
York Herald had by way of '
advertising smartness '
made an
advance announcement of her '
Confession ', and that in response
to a protest by her, the paper assured her that word would not
appear in the actual article, as in fact it did not.
Eusapia was more up Mr Rinn's street than Mrs Piper, and one
might have hoped for some new light on her from Mr Rinn's
sitting. This took place on 17 April 1910, and is described, to-
gether with the preparations for it, on pp. 278-81 of the book. It
had at this time been long known and was generally accepted that
Eusapia would use whatever trickery the conditions of control
permitted. The question was whether she could produce her
1951] Reviews 437
phenomena under conditions effectively excluding trickery. The
group of highly competent investigators who sat with her at
Naples in 1Q08 believed she could and did : see their report in
S.P.R. Proceedings XXIII.
In 1909 she came to America and in 19 10 gave a series of
sittings to a group connected with Columbia University. A
member of the group invited Mr Rinn and some friends of his,
who were experts in tricker\', to attend a sitting. Before this
sitting Mr Rinn and his friends arranged an elaborate plan to trap
the medium, some, but not all, of the members of the University
group being privy to it. Part of the plan was that at a particular
point in the sitting and for a prearranged time Mr Rinn's friends,
who were acting as controllers of the medium, should deliberately
release their control. This plan was put into action, and during
the prearranged relaxation of control Eusapia produced pheno-
mena, which she could not do during the part of the sitting when
the control was strictly maintained. The result did no more than
confirm what had already been established as to her mediumship
fifteen years earlier at the Cambridge sittings. The S.P.R. has
always maintained that it is possible to test a medium without
laying traps, and that complete candour between fellow-investi-
gators is imperative. Departures, such as Mr Rinn's, from the
code of mutual confidence between investigators merely open the
door to the bogus investigator, who is as much a hindrance to
serious research as the bogus medium.
It would be tedious to correct all Mr Rinn's minor inaccuracies:
here are a few jotted down as I read the book. Barrett was not
'
head of the British S.P.R.' at the time of his American visit in
1885, or any^vhere near it (p. 15). J. H. Hyslop is made (p. 294)
to speak in 1910 of '
the English branch of our association ', which
he would certainly not have done, as he had negotiated on the
American side the complete separation of the British and American
Societies in 1906. Ivor Tuckett was not at any time a '
prominent
member '
of the S.P.R. (p. 309) : in 191 1 he was not a member at
all. It is correctly stated (p. 599) that in 1938 the ESP cards used
by Professor Rhine were unsuited for experimental purposes : see
S.P.R. Journal for May 1938. Professor Rhine was by that time
quite aware of the defect, and was arranging for the use of a better
type of card in his later experiments: Mr Rinn does not mention
this. Nor does he, after mentioning (pp. 596-7) the negative
results of Dr Soal's earlier experiments as tending to disprove
Professor Rhine's claims, anywhere refer to the positive results
that Dr Soal and Mrs Goldney later obtained through Shackleton
(S.P.R. Proceedings XLVII). It is not true, as suggested on pp.
291-2 of Mr Rinn's book, that luminous paint is only used by
438 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
'
crooked mediums '. Until the development of infra-red tech-
nique it was the standard method of indicating the situation of
persons and objects at sittings held in poor light, and has often in
that way been used in our seance-room. Mis-spellings of names
familiar in psychical research are common ;
'
Phenuit ',
'
Mrs
Sedgwick ',
' G. B. Door '
Rev. Charles Tweedle ', '
Valentine
On p. 444 the names of ten members of a Committee to investigate
spirit photography are given : five are mis-spelt.
A large part of the book is taken up with one-sided accounts of
conversations in which Mr Rinn scores off the other fellow. One's
confidence in the accuracy of these accounts is shaken by Mr
Rinn's exaggerated bias, and the prevalence of blunders large and
small destroys it entirely, beyond hope of restoration by the most
copious extracts from the American press, to which he freely
resorts.
The pity is that Mr Rinn, whose knowledge and experience of
mediumistic trickery would have qualified him to write an inter-
esting book of value to psychical research, if he had confined him-
self to matters that he understood and that had come under his
own observation, has been so unwise as to go outside these limits.
Knowledge of methods of deception is needed in psychical
research, and the S.P.R. has always been fortunate enough to
include members well versed in them. But such knowledge does
not by itself make a psychical researcher, without more accuracy,
a better idea of evidence, and a greater understanding of human
nature, whether in its normal or abnormal states, than Mr Rinn
shows in this book. To succeed in business he must have had a
fair share of these qualities, but when it comes to psychical
research they fail him. No doubt this is because for him the
subject has never been one of impartial enquiry. He began with a
desire to obtain evidence of a future life, proceeded to take the
worst kind of route to that objective, found that it led nowhere,
and went violently into reverse for the rest of his life with no better
results. Let the sad fate of Mr Rinn stir us all to examine our
consciences to see whether we are ourselves free, to quote our
Society's inaugural manifesto, *
from prejudice or prepossession
of any kind '
!
W. H. S.
Psychotic Art. By Francis Reitman, m.d., d.p.m. London
Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1950. x, 180 pp. 17 plates. i6s.
Although the artistic products of the mentally unbalanced have
long been known, little serious attention was given to them until
the nineteenth century when such students as Marce and Simon in
France (1864 and 1876), Lombroso in Italy (1880), and Kiernan
1951] Reviews 439
in the United States (1892) began to view them, not only from the
standpoint of the art critic, but also from that of the practising
psychotherapeutist. In later years, following the more detailed
work of Prinzhorn at the Heidleberg Psychiatric Clinic, came
further work from men of such diverse views as Vinchon, Ass-
chaffenburg, Pfeifer, and Schilder.
In the present work Dr Reitman, who has had the advantage of
working with Dr E. C. Dax at Netherne House, has attempted to
examine the problems inherent in psychotic and in particular
schizophrenic art from the point of view of the neuro-psychiatrist,
and to show what he calls the biologically determined dynamics of
the material at his disposal. He regards the art products of the
schizophrenic patient as a kind of active and creative ritual. Due
partly to the distorted view of his own and other body-images
(body-schemata) and partly to his disordered concept of space-
relations, the artist paints in order to adjust himself to his own
changed view of reality. His productions are thus in a sense
pictorial representations of his own disturbed thinking, and can
therefore be evaluated in psycho-physiological terms. It is, Dr
Reitman insists, a mistake to appraise them solely from the
psychological standpoint, since they contain both motor and
sensory phenomena, and must therefore be approached from a
biological as well as from a psychological angle. It is here that
the author parts company from some of his predecessors, notably
Prinzhorn, and from those who, from their psycho-analytic
training, tend to find in every schizophrenic painting those signs
and symbols which form the basis of much of their psychological
interpretation in other fields.
From what Dr Reitman has written it is clear that he regards
schizophrenic art as primarily dependent on the patient's own
abnormal cognitive condition. From his changed mental position
both as regards himself and the external world the schizophrenic
is, in one sense at least, maintaining his own existence and adjust-
ing himself to a new situation. Thus any analysis of such paint-
ings must give due allowance to a psychological approach, what-
ever stress be laid on the purely neuro-psychiatric interpretation.
It is here that the psychical researcher may perhaps be pardoned
if he ventures to express an interest in the total lack of any refer-
ence in Dr Reitman's book to mediumistic art. Apart altogether
from such important and complex cases as that of Thompson-
GifTord, it is, to say the least, rather strange that the author has
not thought fit to mention the work of such well-known automa-
tists as Mrs W. M. Wilkinson, Gilbert Cooke, F. L. Brown, A.
Machner, F. Gentes, or Mrs I. T. Bush. Had he done so, and
noted the many striking parallels between schizophrenic art and
440 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
that of the automatists, he might have made an efiective addition
to his discussion of the comparison between the paintings of
schizophrenics and those of certain modern artists, while some
similarity between these two classes of product is obvious. Dr
Reitman is at pains to point out that this is due to the modernistic
technique of analysing a system of relations which necessarily leads
to fragmentation. On the other hand the same fragmentation is
seen in psychotic art, but here it is not due to any system of con-
scious analysis but rather to the basic disintegration of the person-
alities of the artists.
From his treatment of psychotic art as seen psychologically it is
clear that Dr Reitman has very little patience with the elaborate
interpretations of certain of the followers of Freud and Jung,
although at the same time he does not seem to distinguish very
clearly between the teachings of master and pupil. In this
connexion his short treatment of some of Goya's products appears
rather unconvincing, and had he chosen Bosch instead of the
Spanish artist the reader would have been much more interested
in his diagnosis. His discussion is interesting, however, since he
shows that, in his opinion, the content of the Caprichos can reveal
material which is pathognomonic of schizophrenic experience,
although how far he would go in a further interpretation remains
uncertain.
To sum up, then, Dr Reitman has written a thought-provoking
book which should be read by all who are interested in a little
understood subject. Although the list of authorities is brief, it
contains a representative selection of easily available material,
while those who require further references, can turn to the papers
of Anastasi and Foley, although these authors, like Dr Reitman,
seem to ignore most of the material on mediumistic art.
E. J. Dingwall
The Mystery of Dreams. By William Oliver Stevens. London,
Allen & Unwin, 1950. vi, 280 pp. i6s.
Mr Stevens has given us a book of a kind badly needed, one
that should put before us a large number and great variety of
dreams, should classify them according to their significance for
psychical research, and should comment on the points that
distinguish one example from another. The scheme of the book
appears from the chapter headings. First come The Dream in
Literature, Symbolism in Dreams, and The Solution of a Problem
(i.e. dreams in which a problem is solved for the sleeper) : then follow
chapters in which Telepathic, Clairvoyant, Warning and Prophetic,
Borderland, Concurrent and Reciprocal dreams are successively
passed in review, with, to end, some cases difficult to classify.
195 1] Reviews 441
In the concluding chapter the author explains the principles on
which he has selected his examples. He mentions first readability,
that is '
variety in time, place, characters, and especially in type of
incident ', but adds that primarily the selection was '
based on
what seemed to be authenticity '. In all the cases cited he is
convinced that the narrators believed what they said, although
some of them date from an uncritical age, and for others corro-
boration could not be obtained. With this caution in mind, the
reader can rejoice that the author has cast his net so wide. Cases
reported in good faith but falling short of the highest evidential
standards can be read '
as Hierome saith '
of the Apocr}'pha '
for
instruction—but not to establish any doctrine '. Many of the
cases cited are drawn from the Proceedings and Journal of our own
and the American S.P.R. Others are taken from books of various
kinds, and many were reported direct to Mr Stevens by corre-
spondents in the United Kingdom and America.
Mr Stevens is impatient (pp. 57, 58) of attempts to explain
dreams by bringing in '
the old reliable pack horse, the sub-
conscious mind Most people, he truly says, '
are quite hazy as
to what the subconscious mind actually is and how it operates '.
In the present stage of our knowledge it is well not to attempt too
precise a definition of the subconscious mind. Many psychical
researchers would not accept the author's description of it as '
a
complete record of our lives '
:
'
complete '
is too wide, and
'
record '
suggests passivity. It looks as if he supposed that the
champions of the subconscious regarded it as the ultimate source
of all paranormal cognition, and not, as most of them do, as the
potential vehicle, and in many cases the probable vehicle, for
material of external origin.
'
_ _
- W. H. S.
The Revolt against Reason. By Arnold Lunn. London,
Eyre & Spottiswoode, 1950. xi, 252 pp. 15s.
The author of this lively and stimulating book writes with the
enthusiasm of the Catholic convert, and displays an extensive
acquaintance with the writings of philosophers and theologians
from antiquity to the present day. One wonders, however,
whether the abundance of often lengthy quotations is due to a
naive desire to show that he is in good company in his opinions,
i.e. an appeal to authority, or due to the urge '
to add verisimili-
tude. . .
.' His tale, however, though in many places unconvincing
to the non-Catholic, is never bald. Mr Lunn starts from the
premise that the Catholic religion is an essentially rational system
based on Revelation and the Aquinate '
proofs '
for the existence of
God, and that faith derived from mystic experience is almost an
442 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
unnecessary and not always welcome adjunct. Luther, he main-
tains, by exalting mysticism and denying the relevance of reason
in matters of religion, was the initiator of the '
Flight from Reason
'
and of the subsequent—according to Mr Lunn, consequent
—
decline in morality, ethics, and aesthetics which has reached its
climax in our day, especially in the dictatorial systems. This
theme is developed with much ingenuity.
A large part of the book is taken up with a '
debunking '
of
Darwinism and a vigorous attack on the '
scientians ', a term
coined by Mr Lunn to describe those materialists and crypto-
materialists who deny the supernatural and affirm the omni-
competence of natural science. In the Western world at least, this
type is fast becoming extinct and thus the author's attacks, which
are mostly well-reasoned, apply largely to Victorian and early
twentieth century scientists. He makes much of the practice among
scientists of often ignoring facts which are inexplicable by, or in
contradiction to, a current theory. In this context his examples
are drawn mainly from biology and the realm of paranormal
phenomena. If Mr Lunn had been an experimental scientist he
would have known that in order to construct any theory it is not
only permissible but essential to neglect some facts ; otherwise
—
human limitations being what they are—it would be impossible to
formulate any theories at all. The successive theories in any
subject embrace an ever-increasing number of hitherto ignored
facts. His argument, that because the theory of evolution cannot
account for certain facts, therefore special creation must be true,
shows that he does not comprehend the true role of scientific
theory. No theory can be completely adequate to its subject, and
a theory has fulfilled its purpose when it is seen to be inadequate
and is superseded by a new one. Furthermore, he fails to appre-
ciate that a theory of special creation is heuristically useless.
As far as paranormal phenomena are concerned, the pretext for
ignoring them among many scientists was, and still often is, dis-
belief. The true reason, however, is that they seem irrelevant and
cannot be fitted anywhere into the present world picture. It is
just as unreasonable to reproach Victorian and later scientists for
ignoring paranormal phenomena as it would be to reproach
Galileo for ignoring magnetism and electricity. The phenomena
available at the time just did not fit in anywhere into the current
view of the universe. That is why the present state of psychical
research is as good an example as any in the history of science, of
the necessity for a working hypothesis before systematic experi-
mental work can be planned.
To the non-Catholic many arguments in this book are difficult
to swallow. In particular, in discussing the dichotomy between
1] Reviews 443
materialists and theists, Mr Lunn seems to be unaware that many
intellectually honest people are content to be agnostics and to base
their morality on intuitive feelings of human dignity.
This is definitely a thought-provoking book.
P. H. Plesch
Journal of Parapsychology, Vol. 14, no. 4, December 1950.
Durham, N.C., Duke University Press. $1.25.
Professor Rhine makes a mid-century appraisal of the present
position in parapsychology. He lists as solved problems the
separate occurrence of E SP and P K, the occurrence of clairvoyant
ESP, of precognition, and, as a deduction from these, the non-
physical nature of psi. He indicates more problems not yet solved
or not fully solved, of which examples are : the experimental
demonstration of telepathic ESP, the possibility of conscious
control of psi, and the biological nature of psi capacities.
Remi Cadoret and Dr Pratt report a tendency to consistent
missing in ESP experiments, that is for the guessing of one face
when another was really the target. With the help of Dr Greville
they have evolved a method of dealing with the somewhat difficult
statistical problem of assessing the presence of such a tendency.
W. A. McElroy and Miss Winifred Brown report an experiment
done at Glasgow University on the effect of giving mild electric
shocks as punishments for incorrect responses in an ESP experi-
ment. It was hoped that this method would make learning
possible. This hope was not fulfilled, since in the series in which
shocks were given there was a significant decline efl'ect. The rate
of scoring in the series of experiments with shocks showed an
over-all significant deviation from mean chance expectation, while
a series without shocks showed a much smaller positive deviation.
Olivia Rivers gives a brief account of an experiment designed
to test the correlation between psi capacity and the results of a
mental health rating. Although her subjects showed significant
scores in an ESP test, these were found to be not significantly
correlated with their mental health ratings.
An exploratory experiment by J. B. Rhine on two water diviners
showed interesting results of which the principal was a strongly
significant tendency to score below mean chance expectation.
Professor Rhine is inclined to attribute this resuk to the mental
tension connected with the experimental situation.
R. H. Thouless
444 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
CORRESPONDENCE
Metaphysics and Parapsychology
Sir,—Dr Rhine's Myers Lecture Telepathy and Human
Personality contains a plea that in pursuing parapsychological
research we shall free ourselves from '
speculative associations and
cultural trappings '
(pp. 30-1) and from '
traditions of theological
and occult character '. I suggest that it is impossible completely
to avoid making metaphysical assumptions in our scientific think-
ing, and that Dr Rhine's lecture is an illustration of the truth of
this.
To begin vi^ith, he assumes, as most psychical researchers do,
that we can distinguish telepathy from clairvoyance. I do not
quarrel with this distinction if it is merely one of scientific method,
but I must insist that if we regard it as more than this, we have
adopted a metaphysical theory. For there is one type of meta-
physical theory, that of modern objective idealism, for which this
distinction vanishes. On this view, '
object ' and '
subject '
are
abstractions, the concrete ontological unit containing both subject
and object, and therefore what we call clairvoyance is, in a broad
sense, telepathy, for the object perceived in clairvoyance is always
known to a superconsciousness, or oversoul, or to the orthodox
Christian God who can be regarded both as transcendent and as
immanent in finite beings.
Both in Dr Rhine's lecture and in the Thouless-Wiesner four
possible interpretations of '
person to person transference of
thought impressions '
(p. 19) we see the influence of a realist
metaphysic which is just as '
speculative '
as the idealist. Indeed,
Dr Rhine's statement on p. 29 of '
the primary question of psi
research '
almost suggests that he has not completely freed himself
from the influence of the crude materialism which held that the
brain secretes thought as the liver secretes bile. He states that the
primary task is the discovery '
whether there is an immaterial part
of human personality, a spiritual self that might conceivably be
considered capable of survival '. Here we see clearly the meta-
physical assumption that whatever else may not be real, the body
as a '
thing-in-itself ' indubitably is. Now quite apart from the
idealist metaphysic, which has been held by thinkers of the calibre
of Hegel, Edward Caird, T. H. Green, F. H. Bradley, Bernard
Bosanquet, W. T. Stace, and Brand Blanshard, what about the
physicists' discovery that the notion of a three-dimensional ' block
Universe '
in a common time order must be given up and that we
must reason as if the '
thing-in-itself ' were a four-dimensional
1951] Correspondence 445
continuum which must be measured by '
complex numbers '
?
What about the discovery that even the electron cannot consist-
ently maintain its objective substantiality but becomes a wave
—
and a wave of what? It is matter, not the spiritual self, that is
doubtful today. For although the four- dimensional continuum,
tensors, matrices, and all the rest of the mathematical physicist's
stock-in-trade cannot safely be regarded as more than methodo-
logical devices to enable observers to adapt themselves to and to
control their environment, it is quite impossible to talk and write
about physics unless we assume the existence of observers who
use the devices—and for that matter who read or listen to our
expositions! It is consciousness (using the word not as referring
to the '
entity '
attacked in Professor Gilbert Ryle's Concept of
Mind but rather as the general term covering seeing, hearing,
thinking, feeling, and so on) that is the indubitable reality. It is
'
matter '
that is on trial for its life, so to speak.
This last point is important when we try to assess the value of
the Thouless-Wiesner fourfold possibilities. One of the possi-
bilities is that the sender's mind may influence directly the body of
the receiver ; another is that the sender's body may influence
directly the mind of the receiver. Now there would be some point
in considering these '
possibilities '
if the metaphysical doctrine
of the body as a '
thing-in-itself ' were established, and if the
notion of action between a person's '
mind '
and his own '
body
'
could be freed from absurdity. But one of the reasons for rejecting
the theory that a person is a duality in which a realist or '
thing-
in-itself '
body is the primal certainty and his consciousness some-
how derived or epiphenomenalistic, is the absurdity in which we
are landed if we try on this basis to explain the simplest act of
perception. What, from this point of view, is supposed to happen
when I see a patch of colour? Rays of light, it will be said, are
reflected from the patch in straight lines to my eyes, and then
microscopic motions, which are different if the patch is red from
what they are if it is blue, are propagated along certain nerves to
the higher centres of my brain. What happens then? Well, if
the motions correspond to red I see red and if they correspond to
blue I see blue. But why should I ? The redness or blueness has
not been conveyed to my brain ; all that has been conveyed is
motions. The only possible answer, on this set-up, is that I must
somehow possess in my mind something analogous to the de-
cyphering tables by which a cyphered message is translated into
ordinary language. I translate the motions into the sensuous
quality which they symbolise.
Now a person who can believe this is capable of believing any-
thing. It is obviously nonsense. When I see a patch of colour I
446 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
see a patch of colour. If I am told that the decyphering is done by
my '
subconscious '
I must reply that these words convey nothing ^
to me, and in any case are not an explanation. That we are
conscious is certain. That there exist material organisms which
are things-in-themselves, i.e. which exist out of all relation to any
consciousness whatsoever, is a metaphysical hypothesis the truth
of which, to put it mildly, is highly speculative. If psychical
research is to keep clear of '
speculative associations '
it must stick
to the '
person to person '
account of those phenomena which, as a
matter of purely scientific method, have in the past been legiti-
mately distinguished as '
telepathic '
from '
clairvoyant
F. H. Cleobury
Precognition and PK
Sir,—Dr Thouless's important and otherwise admirably lucid
paper '
A Report on an Experiment in Psycho-kinesis with Dice
'
{Proceedings, Part 179) contains one passage which seems to
require clarification. I refer to the two paragraphs (pp. 1 12-13)
on the strength of which Thouless makes the following claim for
the method he has employed: '
Success in such a P K experiment
can only be explained by precognition if we make the absurd
assumption that when we are doing a PK experiment, we can
precognise with an incomparably greater accuracy than when we
are doing a precognition experiment.' (My italics.) Whether or
not this conclusion is warranted, it does not follow from the
preceding argument. His previous paragraph leads one to expect
that the rival hypothesis which he is concerned to eliminate is that
the subject precognises the falls of the machine-thrown dice and
causes the corresponding targets to be selected by some means
other than PK. In the argument which follows, however,
Thouless discusses only the possibility of the subject's precognis-
ing the series of events which determined the target-selection.
But in what way could this possibility be relevant? What purpose
could such precognition have served, since the subject was in any
case informed by his senses of the results of the target-selection
before he started to try to influence the machine-thrown dice?
Surely no one would claim to explain the extra-chance corre-
spondence between the dice-falls and the targets by supposing that
the subject precognised both of these series of events!
According to the rival hypothesis which ought to be considered,
we must suppose that Thouless {qua subject) precognised the faces
which would preponderate in the ensuing block of falls from his
mechanical thrower. The question is whether it was possible for
him to influence the selection of the corresponding targets by any
195 1]
Correspondence 447
means other than PK. Now Thouless tells us that he selected
blocks of targets by choosing one of seventeen 6x6 Latin squares
and then permuting its rows and columns several (we are not
told how many) times in ways determined by a series of manual
dice-throws. Thouless acknowledges that manual dice-throwing
is not an adequate test for PK since success may be due to an
acquired skill. The rival hypothesis, then, is that Thouless's
results were due to precognition plus skill in dice-throwing. We
cannot, however, try to apply this hypothesis in detail because we
are not told what rules were adopted in permuting the rows and
colunms of the Latin squares. If, for example, Thouless per-
formed an irregular number of such operations (though I do not
imagine he did this) his decisions when to stop might have been
influenced by his precognition. But apart from this possibility,
skill in hand-throwing might have enabled him to control the
arrangement of the targets to an appreciable extent.
To return to Thouless's above-quoted conclusion, surely it is
not necessary to suppose that we can only eliminate the PK
hypothesis if we assume '
that we can precognise with an in-
comparably greater accuracy than when we are doing a precogni-
tion experiment In order to explain the results in his machine-
thrown series, whose average '
efficiency '
was a little below
per cent, we should not, as Thouless implies, need to postulate
precognition which was 100 per cent efficient. It would surely be
sufficient to postulate an average efficiency of about 12 per cent
for both the precognition and the manual control of the dice used
in target-selection.
The best argument against this counter-hypothesis would be to
point out that in the earlier experiments for PK when Thouless
used hand-throwing his efficiency was less than i per cent.
(Thouless indicates, however, that it was appreciably higher in the
earlier stages.) We can conclude, then, that the results in his
machine-thrown experiments must be attributed to P K, unless we
suppose either that Thouless precognises much more accurately
when he is not trying to do this, as in a PK experiment, than he
does when he is trying, as in a precognition experiment, or that
Thouless can control the fall of hand-thrown dice much more
efficiently when he is not trying to do this than when he is trying.
This consideration does make the counter-hypothesis very un
plausible—but not, I think, absurd. For as Thouless emphasises
later in his paper (p. 117 and pp. 123-4), it seems to be favourable
to a person's exercise of psi-faculties that he should not be
trying.
C. W. K. MUNDLE
44^ Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
Sir,—Mr Mundle's suggestion as to how PK results with
targets determined by Latin squares might be explained as due
to a combination of precognition and skilled throwing is in-
genious. I do not think, however, that it is a possible explanation
of my results.
He asks what rules I adopted in permuting rows and columns of
the Latin square. My method was to throw four dice at a time from
a shaker. These were marked A, B, C, and D. Suppose the dice
fell A4, B2, C2, Di. I put the row starting with 4 as the top row,
that startine with 2 as the second row, and that starting with i as
the third row (ignoring the fall of C because the row starting with
2 was already placed). I would then throw all four dice again.
If they now fell A6, B2, C3, D6, I put the row starting with 6 as
the fourth row, and that starting with 3 as the fifth row (again
ignoring the falls of B and D because these numbers had fallen
earlier). The only row now left is that starting with 5, so that
would become the sixth row. The columns were then permuted
in the same way. This system of permutations was performed once
only to obtain each square. There would be no advantage in
repeating the process since every Latin square that can be derived
from a particular starting square can be obtained by one system of
permutations.
Mr Mundle asks an interesting question when he considers
what percentage of success in skilled throwing and precognition
would be necessary to obtain a given rate of scoring. The figures
he gives are, however, far from correct. In saying that a 12 per
cent rate of success in each would give a i| per cent scoring rate
he overlooks two facts. First, to get success it would be necessary
to have the row position and the column position both right as
well as the precognition, so that a 12 per cent success in each of
the operations would lead only to hitting the right block of falls
•17 per cent of times (not 1-4 per cent). Even this would, how-
ever, not mean that the score was -17 per cent. Mr Mundle seems
to assume that a hit on the right block would give 100 per cent
right on that block. This would be true only if the blocks were of
single falls. In my experiment, the blocks were of 12 falls, and I
find that the average expectation of scoring by the best scoring
target face would be 2 over mean chance expectation. So the
expectation of scoring, assuming 12 per cent accuracy in dice
control and precognition, would be the negligible amount of -03
per cent (less than one unit in the total score of my experiment
IIa).
One could, of course, deal with the question in another way.
Assuming that the rows have been permuted, the chance of getting
a given column into the best scoring position (assuming 12 pe^.
1951] Correspondence 449
cent efficiency of precognition and dice control) is 1-4 per cent.
But now we are dealing with bigger blocks, and the mean chance
expectation of scoring by putting a column into the best scoring
position is only about +3 to +4 (on 72 falls), which leads to a
lower expectation than that resulting from assuming control of
both rows and columns.
If we ask the question the other way round : what expectation
of success in precognition and dice control would be necessary to
account for a i| per cent rate of scoring, we find it is slightly less
than 50 per cent. A 50 per cent rate of success in each would lead
to a total score of 2 per cent. Did I exaggerate in saying that
success by precognition assumed an '
incomparably greater
accuracy '
in precognition than any we have observed in a pre-
cognition experiment?
If a rate of precognition of the order of 50 per cent is far
greater than any that has been observed, even this would be of no
use on Mr Mundle's hypothesis unless it were accompanied by
success in dice control of the same order. We have no evidence
of any ability to control dice falls by skill, and if such an ability
existed at anything approaching this level of success it could not
have failed to be observed. The only way I can see in which
manner of throwing might effect dice falls is if one used biased
dice and found that one way of throwing maximised the bias
effect while another way reduced it to a minimum. The first way
of throwing would then give a slightly enhanced expectation of
scoring on one of the faces favoured by bias. At best the effect
would be small and quite insufficient for the present purpose.
There seems no reason for supposing that by skill one can throw
a die so that a given face will be more likely to fall uppermost, but
an even more fantastic assumption must be made if one is throwing
four dice at a time, that one can control which dice will fall which
way. If that can be done to any degree at all, I think we should
all agree to accept it as evidence for P K and against skill. I must
confess that I did not adopt this method in order to meet the point
that Mr Mundle has urged but only to save myself trouble.
The most important question is not whether I have succeeded
in making an experimental design which eliminates explanation of
PK success by precognition, but whether in principle it is possible
to do so. Even if one agreed that Mr Mundle's suggested explana-
tion in terms of precognition and skill were a valid criticism of my
experiment, it could very easily be met by eliminating any choice
(by dice or otherwise) in the selection of the arrangement of target
faces. One could simply take the first Latin square in the Fisher
and Yates tables and use that unchanged throughout an experi-
ment. My own method for some time past has been to use a
450 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
succession of the same five Latin squares in all experiments,
repeating the series unchanged after the fifth. This also was
originally adopted as a time saving device but it seems adequate to
meet Mr Mundle's objection.
R. H. Thouless
Water Divining
Sir,—The journal of the Society for Psychical Research for
March-April 195 1 contains a note by D. P. on the report of what
he describes as a '
carefully designed research project ' which
appeared in the Journal of the American Society for Psychical
Research for January 195 1.
As stated in their report the problem the experimenters set
themselves was simply, '
Can water diviners find water under
conditions in which the professional geologist is unable to do
so?
'
In the light of many years objective experience of dowsers and
their craft, I would like to make a few comments on the most
obvious fallacies in the rather one-sided contest described in the
report.
If the experimenters had known more about the practical
results of dowsing they might not have thought it worth while to
carry out this experiment, for numerous cases are on record where
a dowser has located underground water in an area where a geo-
logist has failed to do so.
In any case the test as arranged was not calculated to solve the
problem, as by selecting a site which was practically waterlogged
the conditions were such that a geologist would be certain of
finding water in it.
It is not apparent that any of the twenty-seven dowsers were
really possessed of skill and experience and one, '
an adolescent
girl ', could not possibly have been.
The site selected was entirely unsuitable, as water stood a few
feet below the surface and no dowser could be expected to work
satisfactorily in such an area. This fact alone is enough to damn
the whole experiment.
The dowsers were not allowed to work freely. They were
blindfolded and manhandled. This sort of personal interference
would be enough to disconcert any good dowser. A scientific
dowser would get all the information he could from wells in the
neighbourhood and in estimating depth and flow would employ a
process involving measurements requiring a certain amount of
time to carry out.
1951] Correspondence 451
This test adds one more to a list of many others carried out by
uninformed experimenters under unsuitable conditions and from a
scientific point of view is misleading and quite without value.
{Colonel) A. H. Bell
President, British Society of Dowsers
Sir,—Your reviewer speaks very highly of the recent American
field experiment in dowsing. He concludes that '
if a test of this
kind is not a valid test of dowsing then we may as well throw up
the sponge and declare that the phenomenon, as claimed, is un-
testable '. I wish I could agree with your reviewer's estimate
of the experiment and with his conclusion, but I cannot. The
names of the sponsors of the experiment are a guarantee of a
conscientious and sincere piece of work : but that, alas, is not
enough. It is surely a rather elementary principle of scientific
methodology that when the attempt is made experimentally to
reproduce an alleged phenomenon, the conditions of the experi-
ment must be the conditions under which the phenomenon is
alleged to occur. There can be an exception to this rule only if
these conditions are such as to make verification impossible.
Thus, in our field, if a medium claims that certain phenomena
will occur in his presence only in the dark and in the absence of
control, the investigator is obliged to suspend judgment, and is
perhaps even entitled to reject the claim on the ground that it is
untestable. Dowsing fortunately is not an alleged phenomenon of
this order. Nothing is easier than to put dowsing practically to
the test under natural conditions : nothing is easier, but un-
fortunately nothing in psychical research is more expensive.
That is the crux of the matter, that is why after many years of
effort I have never been able to organize a proper investigation.
The American group have tried hard to do it cheaply, but I fear
that they have produced a quite inconclusive report.
Theodore Besterman
Sir,—The twenty-seven dowsers accepted the conditions and
'
in spite of . . . minor difficulties ... it was apparently the belief
of all that the rod responded normally to underground water '.
The American team made ultra-modest claims for their experi-
ments, as I was careful to emphasize by extensive quotation.
In The Divining Rod by Sir William Barrett and Theodore
Besterman (1926) a whole chapter is devoted to experiments with
dowsers who were blindfolded and often '
manhandled '. These
experiments were for the most part regarded as successful. It is
difficult to resist the conclusion that it is only the unsuccessful
dowsing experiment which evokes criticism.
452 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
Dowsers and their sponsors could help us by setting down an
irrevocable statement of the conditions they will accept for a
practicable definitive test. The test should be designed to
eliminate or allow for geological knowledge or inference on the
part of the dowser.
Denys Parsons
The Statistical Evaluation of Group
Experiments
Sir,—Dr Schmeidler is perfectly right, and except on the aca-
demic issue I was quite wrong. Although it is true that a correct
statistical method must always treat the targets as variable and the
guesses as given, I was wrong in concluding that '
we cannot
expect to get more significant results by using more percipients to
guess at the same targets '. We can expect to, because a group
opinion (guess) will, in general, be better than an individual
opinion—random effects cancel out while systematic eflFects accum-
ulate. The most that can be said is that, however many perci-
pients we use, we cannot on any legitimate statistical method get
any result better than would be obtained by a single percipient
scoring at the level of loo per cent success (except conceivably by
bringing in further external evidence) and that up to this limit
the introduction of more percipients gives diminishing returns.
However, this peak is so high and for normal material the returns
diminish so slowly that these limitations have almost no practical
importance. I therefore accept all that Dr Schmeidler says,
apologise for raising a red herring, and thank her for not trouncing
me as severely as she would have been quite entitled to do.
Christopher Scott
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS GLASGOW
JOURNAL
of the
Society for Psychical Research
Volume XXXVI No. 665 July-August 195
1
THE RELATION OF SOME PERSONALITY
RATINGS TO ESP SCORES
A Review of Recent Research
By Betty M. Humphrey
In recent years a growing interest has developed in the possibiHty
of finding personaHty characteristics that distinguish the subjects
who do well in ESP tests from those who score at the chance level
or even below. The discovery of such characteristics would serve
a twofold purpose. First, by knowing what kinds of persons suc-
ceed or fail in ESP tests, we should gain in understanding the
nature of E S P, its possible inhibitors and facilitators. Second, the
possession of personality ratings that, with some degree of success,
enable us to predict a subject's ESP scoring level should give us
increased control over ESP.
We are by no means at the stage of possessing reliable instru-
ments for predicting ESP scores, but the results of the ESP-
personality research programme have been encouraging. A
brief review of several of the findings may help in judging the
progress attained so far, and suggest areas for further research.
This review will deal primarily with some of the researches of the
Parapsychology Laboratory at Duke University, since readers of
this Journal are already familiar with the important work of Dr
Gertrude Schmeidler (4).
A great deal of the research has involved the use of two general
methods of personality classification. By one method subjects are
given personality ratings based on certain characteristics shown in
their freehand drawings. The other general method of subject
rating involves two diflierent ways of scoring subjects' responses to
items in an interest inventory questionnaire. This summary of the
findings relating to these personality measures will include all
available data, both published and unpublished. Recent unpub-
lished researches involving other personality ratings will be
reviewed briefly.
453
454 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
EXPANSION-COMPRESSION AND CLAIRVOYANCE
DRAWINGS RESULTS
In present-day clinical psychology, projective techniques are
being used widely for personality studies. In a projective test the
subject is given a relatively unstructured situation to which he is
required to respond, and in so doing he reveals certain charac-
teristic ways of seeing life and of reacting to it emotionally.
Certain criteria for judging personality characteristics from
drawings have been devised, and one of the most useful for ESP
research has been that of expansion-compression (i, 2). In
applying this criterion a judge considers primarily the form quality
of a drawing—not what was drawn, but how it was drawn. The
person who is rated '
compressive '
usually uses faint, timid lines
in making his drawing ; he commonly makes tiny little pictures
squeezed into a small area of the paper. A subject is rated '
com-
pressive '
if the qualities of his drawing indicate that he has been
unwilling or unable to express himself freely. An '
expansive
'
person, on the other hand, makes a drawing with free, bold lines,
placing objects on the page with a good sense of proportion and
proper relationship with the background. Whereas the compres-
sive subject often draws conventional, stereotyped, or abstract
pictures, the expansive person usually draws pictures that show
some imagination. In brief, then, the compressive drawing in-
dicates that the subject was inhibited from expressing himself
freely, while the expansive drawing reveals no such inhibition on
the part of the subject.
One of the classical experimental methods of psychical research
requires the subject to draw his impressions as to the content or
theme of concealed target pictures. These ESP drawings are
quite amenable to the same type of analysis in terms of form
qualities as clinical psychologists use in evaluating free drawings.
Here the ESP test is the projective personality test. By studying
the drawings a subject has made in an ESP test, we may get clues
as to his attitude towards the test situation: the drawing may indi-
cate whether the subject was entering wholeheartedly into the
ESP test or whether he was tense and inhibited.
Up to the present time, a total of twelve clairvoyance^ series
with drawings have been evaluated by the expansion-compression
criterion. 2 In all of these series the procedure and scoring methods
' Throughout this paper the term '
clairvoyance '
is used for con-
venience in referring to the type of ESP test in which the nature of the
target pictures or the order of ESP cards are not known at the time of the
test. No attempt was made in any of these '
clairvoyance '
series to
exclude the possibility of precognitive telepathy.
^ The first four series were carried out at Stanford University under
Dr Stuart's direction (6); five were the work of experimenters at the
195 1] Relation of Some Personality Ratings to ESP Scores 455
devised by the late Dr C. E. Stuart (6) were used. In a typical test
session the subject is presented with a sealed opaque envelope and
asked to draw his impressions as to the content or theme of the
enclosed picture. Ordinarily he makes four drawings to four
different target pictures in one session.^ Later, the four response
drawings and the four targets are presented in a random arrange-
ment to an independent judge for scoring. Briefly, the judge's
task is to give each response drawing a score of 4, 3, 2 or i to indi-
cate the degree of its resemblance to each target picture. The
material is scored in this way by two independent judges who do
not know the true order of the response drawings or target pictures.
From the figures assigned by the judges, it is easy to compute a
numerical score for each set of drawings. The figures so obtained
may be compared with the known '
chance '
score and evaluated
by conventional statistical procedures.
The expansion-compression rating is also made by an inde-
pendent judge (usually myself) who does not know the ESP
scores of the set of drawings. The ESP scores of the expansive
subjects are then compared with the ESP scores of the compressive
subjects.
The average ESP scores of the expansive and compressive
groups of subjects in each series are shown graphically in Figure i.
In ten of the twelve series, the expansive subjects as a group ob-
tained a higher average ESP score than did the compressive sub-
jects. When the probabilities associated with the diff'erence in
each series are combined (by Fisher's method), we find that, con-
sidered in its entirety, the expansive-compressive difference is
significant with a probability of approximately -005.
It is interesting to note that the total results of these series are
insignificant. Without the help of the expansion-compression
criterion in separating two different types of subjects, we would
probably have rejected these series as being of no value in the
search for evidence of ESP or for clues as to its nature. Un-
doubtedly the time-consuming drawings procedure would have
been abandoned in favour of the quicker, more productive card-
test measures.
The results shown in Figure i provide evidence that ESP was
functioning in these series as a whole. We see that generally the
Parapsychology Laboratory of Duke University. One of the series was
reported by Nash and Richards (3) in connection with their PK work at
Washington College, Maryland. Of the two remaining series (unpub-
lished), one was done by Gladys Gillman, an undergraduate student in
philosophy at Skidmore College, and the other by Lillian Ellis, a psy-
chology teacher at Edgewood Park, a junior college in New York State.
^ In three of the available series, each subject made only two drawings
in the clairvoyance test.
45^ Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
group of subjects labelled expansive hit the target pictures much
better than the group of compressives. In fact the tendency is for
the group of compressives to avoid the target pictures to a signifi-
cant degree. Now it is also of interest to see how many of the
individual subjects followed the trend shown by each group. In
the twelve series there were 140 expansive subjects. Of these 54
per cent had positive ESP scores, 7 per cent gave the expected
chance score, and 39 per cent gave ESP scores below chance
expectation. From these figures we see that the majority of ex-
pansive subjects followed the group trend and that their group
result is not due to merely a few outstanding subjects.
In the compressive group there were 345 subjects. Of these 42
per cent gave positive ESP scores, 6 per cent gave 'chance'
scores, and 52 per cent gave negative ESP scores. Here again we
have the majority (although a small one) contributing to the total
efl^ect.
From a study of the expansion-compression ratings of subjects
who have participated in more than one experimental session, it
becomes apparent that the rating is indicative of the subject's
mood of the moment. A given subject's drawings may be com-
pressive at one session and expansive at the next. Furthermore,
analysis reveals that the subject's ESP scores reflect this change
from compression to expansion, the score on the latter occasion
being higher than on the former. Even within the course of a
single session, too, a subject may change from compressive to ex-
pansive, or vice versa, and his ESP scores tend to change ac-
cordingly.
It at once becomes apparent that a measure dealing with
transient moods of the subject would be a valuable adjunct to
parapsychological research. The records of most subjects, even
the outstanding ones, show fluctuations which, so far, the experi-
menters have been unable to predict in advance. A measure such as
expansion-compression affords an objective basis for separating
data obtained from a subject experiencing different moods or
attitudes. Undoubtedly there are other psychological measures of
mood which may be devised for use in ESP test situations ; it
would seem worthwhile for parapsychologists to devote some time
and thought to the perfecting of additional '
mood-catchers '.
EXPANSION-COMPRESSION AND GESP DRAWINGS SCORES
In general ESP tests (GESP), an agent in another room or
behind a screen (in group tests) looks at the target picture while
the subjects make their drawings. Otherwise the conduct of the
tests and the scoring method are the same as for the clairvoyance
drawings series.
195 1 ] Relation of Some Personality Ratings to ESP Scores 457
To date, the expansion-compression criterion has been appUed
to nine such GESP series. The resuhs, as may be seen in
Figure i, are opposite to those of the clairvoyance series: in
GESP tests, the compressives tended to make higher ESP scores
than the expansives. The difference between the two types of
subjects for all series pooled is statistically significant. Eight of
the nine series followed the trend stated.
Figure i
Deviations of the average scores of expansive subjects (white bars) and of
compressive subjects (black bars) in all available series of ESP drawings tests.
In series graphed to the left of the vertical broken line, each subject made a full
set of four drawings, while in the series shown after the vertical line, each subject
made only two drawings. The numbers given above or below each bar indicate
the number of subjects contributing to the deviation indicated.
This consistent difference in clairvoyance and GESP results
constitutes one of our most perplexing problems. One may
speculate about possible personality differences which might
cause compressives, for example, to do poorly in a situation where
they are strictly on their own (clairvoyance) and to do well in tests
where they have an agent to '
help '
them (GESP). However, the
real answer to this problem must wait for further research. This
finding does emphasize the need in personality-ESP studies to
keep in mind the total psychological situation of the ESP tests.
The fact that a certain personality rating works well in separating
subjects in a certain type of ESP test is no guarantee that it will
458 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
work equally well on data of another type gathered by a different
experimenter under different psychological conditions.
EXPANSION-COMPRESSION AND ESP CARD SCORES
Because the ESP drawings tests require quite a bit of time, not
only in having the subjects make four drawings, but also in
getting the material scored by two judges, we tried a number of
experiments to see if the expansion-compression rating would
distinguish high- and low-scoring subjects in ESP card tests. In
such experiments the customary procedure was to have the sub-
jects make one or two drawings aimed at concealed targets and
then have them take two or four runs of ESP card tests. The
drawings were not scored for ESP but were used only as the basis
for the expansion-compression rating.
To date, twenty-nine separate experiments have been completed
in which clairvoyance card tests and drawings were given each
subject. Of these, twenty-six w ere done at Duke University and
three were carried out by experimenters in other parts of the
United States. Details of the experimental safeguards are not
necessary here. Suffice it to say that the cards were always screened
from the subjects' view and that copies of the subjects' calls were
always collected by the experimenter before the true card order was
revealed (5).
Psychological conditions in the series vary widely. Some of the
experiments were conducted for purposes other than that of
testing the effectiveness of the expansion-compression rating; in
others, variations in instructions were introduced in order to try
to influence the expansion-compression rating. Most series in-
volved testing of groups of subjects, but in a few the subjects were
tested individually. In some series the drawings were made before
the ESP card runs, and in others they were made afterwards.
The expansion-compression rating is based on one drawing per
subject in some series; in others it is based on two drawings each;
and in three series, four drawings provide the basis for the rating.
The most stringent test of the expansion-compression rating
then would be to ignore the variations in psychological conditions
and to consider the results of all available data. Doing this, we
find that the total results are insignificant; that is, the difference in
average run scores of the expansives and compressives is not
statistically significant (CR = i'i5), although the results do follow
the same trend as that shown in the clairvoyance drawings test data.
(The 955 runs by expansive subjects gave a deviation of +62,
while the 1949 runs by compressives had a deviation of -51.)
A second glance at the total results reveals that the twenty-six
1951] Relation of Some Personality Ratings to ESP Scores 459
Duke series follow the drawings trend more closely, and that the
difference between the two groups of subjects in these series alone
has a probability of approximately -024. The non-Duke series,
then, show a reversal of the effect which is not statistically signifi-
cant. The four series in which subjects were tested individually
give a much larger difference than that found in the twenty-five
group-test series.
Other subdivisions of the data into logical classifications are also
possible, but it is not feasible now to go into the details concerning
these. In general, the data suggest that the expansion-compression
rating is more effective when it is based on two drawings rather
than one, and when the drawings are given before the card runs
rather than after them. Its effectiveness also seems to be a func-
tion not only of the experimenter's personality, but also of other
psychological conditions in the test situation.
In general, then, we may sum up the card-test results by saying
that there is some tendency for expansive subjects to score
positively on clairvoyance card tests and for compressives to score
below chance expectation. In the 29 experiments, 17 followed the
trend just stated, 9 showed a reversal, and 3 showed no difference
at all between the two classifications of subjects. Thus, the
expansion-compression measure is by no means as effective in
separating high and low scorers in card tests as it was in E SP draw-
ings tests.
INTEREST INVENTORY MEASURES AND CARD-TEST RESULTS
Midrange-Extreme Measure. In 1946 Dr C. E. Stuart pub-
lished an interest inventory consisting of a list of sixty items
which subjects in ESP tests were asked to check on a five-point
scale varying from '
like it very much '
to '
dislike it very much ',
The list included events, studies, and objects commonly of interest
to college students in the United States; for example: tennis,
picnics, formal affairs, zoos, history, mathematics, cameras, dogs,
and the like. A simple method of scoring the subject's answers
was devised by Stuart, and by this method subjects were divided
into '
midrange '
and '
extreme '
groups. Midrange subjects were
those whose inventory scores did not differ appreciably from the
average score of their group; extreme subjects, on the other hand,
were those whose inventory scores were either high or low in
relation to the average group score. Testing this method of
separation on one series of clairvoyance drawings data, Stuart
found that the midrange subjects tended to do well in the ESP
test, while the subjects in the extreme group showed a tendency
to score below chance expectation.
460 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
Following this finding, Stuart went on to try the measure in
separating ESP card test data. At the time of his death he had
applied the measure to eight series, all of which are also included
in the expansion -compression research just discussed. He found
a highly significant difference in the clairvoyance card test scores
of the two groups of subjects classified according to their interest
inventory scores.
I have continued this research and have to date completed the
analyses on thirty-two experimental series in all, including the
eight Stuart himself analysed. Many of these series have also
figured in the expansion-compression research; the experimental
conditions were essentially the same as those mentioned briefly in
the expansion-compression section. Almost 900 subjects have
participated in this research.
In the total of approximately 1700 card runs made by the mid-
range subjects, more hits were obtained than expected by chance,
while, in the same number of runs, the extreme subjects obtained
fewer than the expected number of hits. The difference between
the average ESP scores of the two groups is significant with a
probability of approximately -0004.
The analyses to determine how many of the subjects in each
group followed the group trend have not been completed for all
900 subjects. The results are available, however, for the data of
the first 517 subjects; so far they do show that the majority of the
subjects in each group follow the expected trend; that is, the
majority of the midrange subjects gave positive ESP results,
while the majority of the extreme group gave negative results.
Fourteen-Item Scale. Another method of scoring the Stuart
Interest Inventory has also been devised from a comparison of
the way a group of high-scoring and low-scoring ESP subjects
answered the items in the inventory. In the list of sixty items,
fourteen were answered differently by high-scoring and low-scoring
subjects in three series of E S P tests. A system of scoring these
fourteen items was set up, and subjects who made a certain
number of points by this system were labelled '
high ', and those
having inventory scores below this point were called '
low '.
'
High '
subjects were expected to give positive ESP scores, while
'low' subjects were expected to have ESP scores below chance
expectation. The effectiveness of the new scale was tried first
on thirteen of the series previously mentioned in the expansion-
compression section. The subjects rated '
high '
on the scale did
obtain positive ESP scores, while the '
low' subjects made ESP
scores below '
chance ', as predicted. Again, it was found that the
majority of the subjects followed the trend expected of them.
Since the first trial of the scale, it has now been applied to the
195 1] Relation of Some Personality Ratings to ESP Scores 461
data of sixteen additional series with rather disappointing resuks.
The trend shown in the early series has not held up consistently.
In fairness to the measure, it perhaps should be mentioned that the
later series include widely differing psychological conditions; and
it is almost certain that the effectiveness of any measure of per-
sonality is a function of the total experimental atmosphere, in-
cluding experimenter's personality, instructions to subjects, type
of ESP test, physical environment, etc. Nevertheless, if we
ignore these psychological differences and pool the results of all
twenty-nine series to which the measure has been applied, we find
that the difference between the ESP scores of the '
high ' and '
low
'
groups is such as would be expected by chance approximately
three times in a hundred.
COMBINATION OF THE TWO INVENTORY MEASURES
AND EXPANSION-COMPRESSION
Increased efficiency in separating high- and low-scoring ESP
subjects results when we combine the personality measures. For
example, in combining the two inventory measures, we compare
the average ESP score of those subjects who received both mid-
range and '
high ' ratings with the average ESP score of subjects who
were rated both extreme and '
low.' The ESP results for these two
groups are graphed in Figure 2 for the total of the twenty-nine
available clairvoyance series (the same series as were discussed in
the preceding sections). There we see that the combination of the
two measures gives a greater degree of separation than was ob-
tained by using each measure alone. The CR of the difference
between the average ESP scores of the midrange-' high ' subjects and
the extreme-' low '
subjects is statistically significant (P = '0005).
Now if we select from the midrange-' high '
group those subjects
who were also rated expansive in their drawings, we find an even
higher rate of ESP scoring. And, if we take from the extreme-
'
low '
group those subjects who also received compressive ratings,
we find they give a lower rate of ESP scoring than did the whole
extreme-' low ' group. In Figure 2 these results are also graphed for
the available sixteen series.^ The difference between the two
groups is significant with a probability of -0016. Although the
difference between these two subject groups is larger than the dif-
ferences obtained from the two inventory measures combined, it
is not as significant because in using three measures together we
do not have as many subjects.
^ Expansion-compression ratings were available for only sixteen of the
twenty-nine series involved in the interest inventory studies. Subjects in
the other series did not make drawings.
462 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jULY
5.3
"5.0
U14
4.e
Uldranga
Expanal vaa
Compreaalvea
Extrema
Expansive
Mldrar.ge
High,
Mldranga
High
Extreoia
Low
4.7
(29 aerlea) (32 aerlea) (29 Serlaa) (29 aerlea)
OompreealTe
Extreme
Low
(IS aerlea)
Figure 2
Average run scores on clairvoyance card tests of subjects rated by several
measures of personality. The results for the expansion-compression criterion
are shown first, followed by the results of each of the two interest inventory
measures. Then the separation of the data by the combination of inventory
measures is shown, and finally, the inventory measures and the expansion-
compression criterion are combined.
In the expansive-midrange-' high '
group there were 44 subjects
in all. Of these 26, or 59 per cent, gave positive ESP results.
In the compressive-extreme-' low' group of 114 subjects, on the
other hand, 68 per cent gave negative ESP results.^ Thus, when
the three measures are used in combination, there is a higher rate
of success in placing high- and low-scoring subjects in their
proper group. In these series, a total of 104 subjects out of 158,
or 66 per cent of the subjects, were correctly placed in high- or
low-scoring groups. This increased efficiency resulting from com-
binations of personality measures suggests the value of giving sub-
jects batteries of personality tests. Perhaps by tapping other areas
of personality we may gain an even higher degree of precision in
predicting subjects' ESP scores.
1 The chi-square from a contingency table based on these figures is
significant, with a probability of "003.
1951] Relation of Some Personality Ratings to ESP Scores 463
OTHER MEASURES OF PERSONALITY
IN RELATION TO ESP SCORES
In recent research two questionnaire-type personality tests have
been administered to subjects in ESP series. Since the results of
these experiments have not yet reached the publication stage, I
shall give only a brief preview of the findings. In one clair-
voyance card-test series, subjects were given the Bell Adjustment
Inventory. By means of this questionnaire subjects are given
ratings in several different areas of adjustment (social, emotional,
health, etc.). In this first use of the questionnaire there appears to
be a relationship between emotional adjustment and ESP scoring
level. Subjects with '
average '
or '
good '
ratings on emotional
adjustment gave positive ESP scores, while those with '
unsatis-
factory '
ratings made negative ESP scores. This is the first trial
of the Bell Inventory in ESP research, but the results warrant its
inclusion in other experiments.
The second questionnaire referred to is the Bernreuter Per-
sonality Inventory. To date the Bernreuter has been given to
subjects in three experimental series. In all three, subjects rated
'
extravert ' gave positive ESP scores, while '
introverts '
scored
at the chance level or below. More than 70 per cent of the extra-
verts obtained above '
chance 'ESP scores, and more than 70 per
cent of the introverts gave '
chance '
or negative ESP scores.
Thus, this introversion-extraversion scale of the Bernreuter
promises to be one of our most valuable methods of classifying
ESP subjects.
DISCUSSION
The findings of these personality studies indicate that we are
making some progress in determining the distinguishing charac-
teristics of high- and low-scoring ESP subjects. The work done
so far is only a beginning, but the findings are encouraging enough
to warrant a full-scale attack. It is probable that the emergence
of ESP depends upon a variety of factors. The systematic study
of E S P scores in relation to ratings on single personality charac-
teristics is a worthwhile venture, but if ESP is dependent upon a
number of personality factors, we should achieve a greater
measure of success in predicting ESP scores if we take into
account combinations of personality traits. We have seen from the
graphs of Figure 2 that the most successful separation of subjects
occurred when the three ratings of personality were used in com-
bination. As we learn of other personality variables related to
ESP scoring and are able to use them jointly, we may be able
eventually to predict with a much higher degree of precision the
464 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
ESP score that will be given by a particular subject under certain
conditions.
Once we have used a variety of personality ratings to predict a
given subject's score, we must not, however, expect the subject to
achieve that score no matter who tests him, no matter what type of
ESP test is given, and no matter what the psychological conditions
of the tests are. Until we discover otherwise, it is safest to assume
that the personality factors distinguishing high- and low-scoring
subjects are a function of the total experimental situation. For
example, analyses of the series in which expansion-compression
was used show that some experimenters did not get as large an
expansive-compressive difference as did others. And as we saw
in the ESP drawings experiments, expansives and compressives
did not give the same results in clairvoyance tests as they gave in
tests where an agent was present. Thus, whenever we find
personality ratings that appear to correlate with ESP scores, we
must keep in mind that they may be applicable only in experiments
where the psychological conditions and the specific ESP test are
closely similar to the situation in which the correlation was found.
The results of these particular personality-ESP studies so far
indicate that the personality ratings are not separating subjects on
the basis of the amount of ESP shown. Neither individual
measures of personality nor the combination of them give us, on
the one hand, subjects with a fair degree of E SP ability and, on the
other, subjects with little or no ESP. Rather, what we have are
subjects who hit the target material and subjects who avoid it.
In each case, the ESP scores of contrasting groups based on per-
sonality ratings are about equally deviant from the expected
chance score. For example, in the clairvoyance drawings data, the
compressives' ESP scores are as different from the 'chance'
score as are the ESP scores of the expansives. Both groups of
subjects, then, demonstrate ESP to about the same degree. The
measures of personality that we have been discussing separate
subjects in terms of the direction from '
chance '
in which their
ESP ability functions. They tell us whether a subject will
score positively or negatively, but not how much ESP he will show.
At first glance, it appears that Dr Schmeidler's Rorschach and
sheep-goat studies do not fit in with the hypothesis that personality
ratings have been separating subjects principally in terms of the
sign of their deviations. Her well-adjusted '
sheep '
gave positive
ESP scores, well-adjusted '
goats '
gave negative ESP scores, and
the poorly-adjusted sheep and goats scored near the chance level.
It appears that here we may have a combination of measures that
would enable us to predict not only the direction of E SP deviation
(above or below '
chance '), but also the amount of ESP—since
195 1] Relation of Some Personality Ratings to ESP Scores 465
the poorly-adjusted subjects gave '
chance '
scores. Although it
would take a tedious statistical study to determine whether or not
the poorly-adjusted subjects score consistently close to the chance
level, Dr Schmeidler's own impression is that some of the poorly-
adjusted subjects score high and that others score low, making it
impossible to predict the score level of the whole poorly-adjusted
group. If her impression is right, we have as yet found no
personality characteristics that we can be sure are related to amount
of E SP ability. And yet there must be some differences in make-
up which distinguish the Pearces, Shackletons and Mrs Stewarts
from the rest of us. It will be interesting to see if further research
can discover any personality characteristics related to degree or
amount of E S P ability.
To add to an already complex picture, I should perhaps
mention briefly another type of problem encountered in research
with the expansion-compression rating. There was no significant
difference in the clairvoyance card-test scores of the expansives
and compressives, but we have found that the '
position effects
'
or distribution of hits through the session are quite different for the
two types of subjects. The expansives tend to start off well,
decline in scoring somewhat, and then rise again at the end of the
session. The compressives, on the other hand, make a very bad
beginning (quite significantly negative), and then begin to score
well toward the last half of the test session. In fact, the compres-
sives do as well in the third quarter of their sessions as the ex-
pansives do in either their first or fourth quarters. Even in the
series where there is no difference at all in total scores of expansives
and compressives, these differences in hit distributions have been
found.
This finding suggests that the expansion-compression rating is
not dividing subjects according to whether they will score posi-
tively or negatively, as we might suppose from looking at the
earlier graph. Rather it appears to be separating subjects as to
type of hit distribution they will give. Whereas we found that
compressive subjects as a group gave negative ESP scores, we
now see that this score was due entirely to a bad beginning and
that these compressives are also capable of making positive ESP
scores. It may be that we can devise test situations to bring out
high scoring rates in compressive subjects.
Position effect studies on the data of other personality-E SP
researches have not yet been carried out, but they will be done also
to see if the other measures could be separating subjects in terms
of hit distributions instead of in terms of direction of deviation
(positive or negative) from '
chance '.
So far, the majority of personality researches have involved
466 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
clairvoyance test scores. In a few experiments, tests of general
ESP were given the subjects. The striking differences in results
of these two types of test in relation to personality ratings suggest
that we may have stumbled on to an important problem here. If
we can discover the cause for what appears to be a major difference
between the two types of psi test, we may gain valuable clues for
the understanding of psi. For similar reasons it may be important
to extend our study of personality to subjects in other types of psi
tests, for example, in tests of precognition and psychokinesis.
The personality-ESP researches can hardly be said to have
solved many problems yet. They have given us some fair methods
of predicting subjects' ESP scores; and by separating high and
low scorers, they have shown that ESP was operating in series
whose total deviation was insignificant. But, on the whole, these
researches have raised many more questions than they have
answered. And in bringing these problems to light, they have
helped to indicate a number of important areas for research.
REFERENCES
(1) Elkisch, P. '
Children's Drawings in a Projective Technique.'
Psychol. Monogr., 1945, 58, 1-3 1.
(2) Humphrey, Betty M. '
Success in ESP as Related to Form
of Response Drawings: I. Clairvoyance Experiments.' J.
ParapsychoL, 1946, 10, 78-106.
(3) Nash, Carroll Blue, and Richards, Alice. ' Comparison of
Two Distances in PK Tests.' J. ParapsychoL, 1947, n,
269-82.
(4) Schmeidler, Gertrude R. 'ESP Performance and the
Rorschach Test.' J. Sac. Psychic. Res., 1950, 35, 323-39.
(5) Smith, Burke M., and Humphrey, Betty M. ' Some Per-
sonality Characteristics Related to ESP Performance.' J.
ParapsychoL, 1946, 10, 269-89.
(6) Stuart, C. E. 'An ESP Test with Drawings.' J. Para-
psychoL, 1942, 6, 20-43.
(7)
— 'An ESP Experiment with Enclosed Drawings.' J.
ParapsychoL, 1945, 9, 278-95.
Parapsychology Laboratory,
Duke University,
Durham, North Carolina.
Two '
Arrival ' Cases 467
TWO 'ARRIVAL' CASES
There is a well-known class of psychic experiences known as
'
arrival ' cases, the characteristic of which is that the percipient
has an impression, in a dream or otherwise, of meeting a person or
receiving a letter, and subsequent events verify the impression.
But it is a common feature of these cases that at the time of the
impression action has already been begun which will in the
ordinary course of things result in its fulfilment. A question
therefore arises—provided, of course, that the facts are such as to
make improbable an explanation by chance coincidence—whether
the impression is strictly precognitive and relates to an entirely
future event, or whether it represents the state of things as it
exists at the time it is received. Two examples of this type of case
are printed below.
It will be noted that in each of these cases veridical statements,
apparently paranormal, are mixed up in the dream with other
elements that did not correspond to the facts of the case. Con-
sidered as a whole, therefore, the dream content presents a
distorted picture of the actual situation. Distortion is very fre-
quent in dreams, and it is necessary to disentangle from it any
veridical elements a dream may contain and to consider these
separately on their own merits. As an interesting example of
distortion may be mentioned the case in Mrs Sidgwick's paper in
S.P.R. Proceedings, Vol. XXXIII, p. 257, in which a dreamer saw
his fiancee with a swollen face looking out of a window of a house
on fire. The facts were that the lady had gone out on a cold night
to watch a house on fire, and had caught a cold which had brought
on toothache and a swollen face. The dream therefore corre-
sponded to the actual incident in two particulars: (i) a swollen
face, and (2) a house on fire, which had in fact a connexion, but
jumbled them together in a way which did not at all correspond
with the actual circumstances. It is conceivable, but hardly
probable, that two such apparently unrelated elements should be
reproduced in a dream by chance coincidence.
W. H. S.
Case No. i
Professor F. J. M. Stratton, F.R.S., has communicated to the
Society an account given him during the week 14-19 August 1950
by Dr J. W. Hunkin, the late Bishop of Truro, of a dream which
took place on the night of Sunday-Monday, 2-3 July 1950 and
appeared to refer to a parcel he received by the morning post on
468 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
the following day. Dr Hunkin put his own account of the dream
in writing on 20 September 1950, and answered in a letter of 5
October 1950 some questions put to him by Professor Stratton.
Unfortunately, his sudden death after an operation removed the
possibility of obtaining direct evidence from him as to some points
which are not clear from these written statements. These points
are, however, satisfactorily covered by Professor Stratton's
recollection of his conversation with the Bishop when he first
heard of the case, and by written statements obtained from Dr
Hunkin's secretary. Miss Norma Wheeler.
Dr Hunkin's written account of his dream was as follows:
At breakfast I told of my dream. I had gone into a shop to buy wine.
They had brought me a very small bottle, price 7s. 6d. I said, '
I
should like something less expensive.' They said, '
Yes—this is a
proprietary wine which makes the price higher.'
After breakfast, I went into my study and my secretary. Miss Norma
Wheeler, opened a parcel containing just such a tiny bottle (it was a
sample of Communion wine) and noted that the accompanying paper
stated the price (of a full size bottle) as 7s. 6d.
20 September 1950. {Sgd) J. W. Hunkin, Bishop of Truro
Appended to Dr Hunkin's statement were the following con-
firmations:
The Bishop related the dream as stated above to me before he or I had
seen the post that morning.
20 September 1950 {Sgd) Norma M. H. Wheeler
My father related this incident to me later the same day. I questioned
the above witness and another as to the sequence of events and was
satisfied that it was as stated above.
20 September 1950 {Sgd) Patience Hunkin
Dr Hunkin's statement does not make it clear where he first
saw the parcel in question. Was it, possibly, in the room where
he had breakfast, and was it later moved into his study where it
was opened by Miss Wheeler? In Professor Stratton's account,
however, of his conversation with Dr Hunkin he says that '
On
going into his study later he found a parcel containing a tiny
bottle ', and in a subsequent letter to the Hon. Secretary of the
Society Professor Stratton adds, '
My memory is clear that the
Bishop had not seen the parcel until after breakfast.' There is
accordingly no reason to infer that Dr Hunkin's recollection of his
dream was in any way coloured by his having seen the parcel
containing the bottle among the rest of his mail before he related
the dream.
Dr Hunkin told Professor Stratton that he had noted the inci-
dent in his diary on the day of its occurrence, but in a letter of 21
195 1] ^'^^ '
Arrival ' Cases 469
September he wrote that when he came to examine his diary he
found he had not recorded the incident after all, the reason being
that on that day he went to London and did not enter up his diary
until after his return some time later. He then wrote it up very
briefly and forgot to record the incident.
A question, of course, arises as to whether the receipt of a
sample bottle of Communion wine was a frequent occurrence in
Dr Hunkin's experience. Professor Stratton questioned him on
that point, and he replied by his letter of 5 October 1950 that this
was the first little sample bottle which he had received for a
number of years, that is, since he had been at Truro. As regards
the possibility that his mind might have been directed towards
samples of Communion wine by advertisements seen in Church
newspapers, Dr Hunkin's reply was that he took the Guardian and
occasionally the Church of England Nezcspaper, but was not in the
habit of paying the slightest attention to advertisements. Pro-
fessor Stratton examined the issues of both these papers from 3
July 1950 back to the beginning of June, and found only one
advertisement of Communion wine, and that was of a brand of
wine diff'erent from the sample received by Dr Hunkin, and at a
different price.
After Dr Hunkin's death his secretary. Miss Wheeler, confirmed
the fact that the parcel was not on the breakfast table, and added
that she could not say for certain whether it was marked or
labelled but did not think it was: it might have had an S.P.C.K.
label, but she could not say for sure. She gave a small drawing of
the parcel, which would not appear in itself to suggest the nature of
the contents. There is, however, one point in her letter which may
possibly suggest a reason why the purchase of Communion wine
should have been in Dr Hunkin's mind at the time of his dream.
It is that over the weekend there had been an Ordination Retreat,
and Miss Wheeler and Dr Hunkin had prepared the Chapel late
on the Friday evening for a celebration on the Saturday morning
and had had a short hunt for the bottle of wine.
Dr Hunkin says nothing on the important question whether he
frequently had dreams that impressed him so much as to cause him
to repeat them to members of his household. On this point a
question was addressed to Miss Wheeler who replied on 5 Decem-
ber as follows:
I am sorry for the delay in answering your letter of 26th November. I
wanted to consult Mrs Hunkin before making any statement about the
Bishop's dreams. I think I had better quote her letter to me. My
impression was that the Bishop did dream a good deal, but that they
were generally of a rather vague nature. Mrs Hunkin says: '
Regarding
the Bishop's dreams, you are right in saying they were generally vague.
47° Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
But now and again he would relate a vivid one in detail. But I never
remember any other which was fulfilled. He would tell me a dream like
that sometimes when he first woke, but it was only occasional.' I
should say this was an exceptional dream, both as regards the unusual
subject and the detail remembered in it.
It would appear, therefore, that the dream was an exceptional
incident, that nothing had happened of a kind likely to prompt it
by normal association of ideas, and that the receipt of the sample
bottle was also an unusual incident. Curious as the correspondence
is, it should be noted that it is not precise, as in the dream the price
quoted for a small bottle was 7s. 6d., whereas the note accom-
panying the sample bottle quoted 7s. 6d. as the price for a full-
sized one. Moreover, the receipt of the parcel by post did not
correspond to the dream-incident of Dr Hunkin going to purchase
a bottle in a shop. When, however, due allowance is made for the
usual degree of distortion met with in dreams, it must be admitted
that the correspondence between an unusual dream and an
unusual event was rather striking.
Case No. 2
The second case is of a dream of the arrival by post of a book,
which was, unexpectedly, delivered by the postman the following
morning. It was reported to the Society by the percipient, Mr
J. E. Taylor, of Nottingham, in the following letter:
The other night I experienced a prophetic dream which was so vivid
and so soon fulfilled that I thought it might interest your Society. I
am a schoolmaster and have not, previously, taken any great interest in
psychical phenomena but at College I remember reading G. N. M.
Tyrrell's book, The Personality of Man in which he asked that all cases,
however trivial, might be submitted to your Society.
I must first explain that in May 1950 I enrolled for a course by
correspondence and ordered the set books from the University Book
Co. Ltd. of London. One book, a short history of the Roman Empire,
was out of stock and the book company promised to send it when it
became available. I had forgotten all about this book as, owing to a
recent illness caused through overwork, I was forced to suspend the
course and so no longer required the book.
On Thursday evening, November 30th, my wife and I attended a
function of my local R.A.F. Association and after several weeks en-
forced temperance the few drinks I had affected me more than usual.
This fact is relevant, for a slight attack of illness caused me to rise at 5
a.m., so fixing the time of my dream as being between my return to bed
at 5.15 and 7.0 a.m. when I woke.
I dreamed that I got up feeling ill from a '
hangover ' and heard a
scuffling at the front door. I went into the hall and saw a huge pile of
Two '
Arrival '
Cases 471
assorted magazines being pushed througri the letter box and beneath the
door. I thought the two temporary postmen had made a mistake and
dehvered the mail for the whole street to our house. Then came a knock
at the door. I thought, '
The postman has come back to explain his
mistake.' But no, the postman handed me a rectangular parcel, sewn
up in a crimson cloth. I tore open the cloth and discovered the book
from the Univ. Book Co. and a bill for the amount due.
An incongruous point was that although our hall opens directly on
to the street, in my dream the postman came through a front gate and
along a path through a garden to our front door.
When I woke up I told my wife of this vivid dream and remarked,
'
I'd forgotten about that book. I ought to write and tell them to
cancel it otherwise they'll be sending it one of these days.' When I
went downstairs I did experience a hangover and halfway through
breakfast a knock came at the door. My wife answered it and came
back into the room with a brown paper parcel. I opened it and there
was the book from the Univ. Book Co. and the bill.
This coincidence, if coincidence it was, was so strange as to give me
quite a sense of shock. It is important, I think, to notice that I told my
wife of the dream before it was, in part, fulfilled.
I hope this minor experience might prove of some value for the
purpose of your records.
2 December 1950 (Sgd) J. E. Taylor
1 declare that my part in the events stated above occurred exactly as my
husband has related.
2 December 1950 (Sgd) W. J. Taylor
In view of the possibility that the connexion between the dream
and the arrival of the book was fortuitous, the Hon. Secretary
wrote as follows:
May I then enquire whether you are a frequent dreamer, and, secondly
whether there was anything either in the degree of vividness of this
particular dream or its nature, which made it appear to you exceptional
at the time. Then as to the correspondence between the dream and the
arrival of the book, can you suggest any reason why in the dream the
book should have been preceded by a large number of magazines, and the
postman should have approached your front door by a path through a
garden which you knew was not there. Also, can you remember
whether the dream book corresponded in colour, size, and general
appearance with the real book, and whether the dream bill stated the
price correctly? It is probable, however, that you already knew what
the cost of the book would be. Although there had been a considerable
lapse of time between your ordering this book and its arrival by post, it
may be that you fairly often have received other books by post, so that
there would be no very great significance in the dream of the arrival of
an expected book occurring shortly before some book or other actually
did arrive.
Mr Taylor replied as follows:
472 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
I am a fairly frequent dreamer but my dreams are usually of a different J
type. I usually start olf by reading a book and then I become personally |
merged in the story and undergo fantastic adventures. I have tried
'
writing some of these dreams down immediately on awaking but they \
make queer reading. The dream I have relate d to you was much more
prosaic and intensely vivid.
With regard to the incident of the magazines and the non-existent
garden, I believe these were some form of wish fulfilment. We live i
in a house without a garden, due to the present housing position, and
our dearest wish is to buy a house with a garden. I am a great reader
and a pile of crisp new magazines is a pleasant sight to me.
|
In my dream the book was of the same colour, grey, and size as the '
real book. I cannot remember seeing the price on the bill. I just '
knew it was the bill. I cannot account for the fact that the book was
sewn up in red cloth in my dream. I have never received such a parcel. ,
The real book was in a brown paper parcel.
I receive books by post perhaps three or four times a year but this
particular book was not expected. I had forgotten all about it. It was
the dream that recalled its existence to my mind and caused me to |
mention to my wife that I ought to write and cancel it, but of course it
arrived the next morning.
{Sgd) J. E. Taylor
REVIEWS
Analytical Psychology and the English Mind. By H. G.
Baynes. Foreword by C. G. Jung. London, Methuen, 1950.
ix, 242 pp. 1 8s.
Collected Papers, Volume V. By Sigmund Freud. Edited by
James Strachey. London, Hogarth Press and the Institute of
Psycho-Analysis, 1950. 396 pp. 25s.
No one in any way concerned with psychical research could
afford to ignore, even should he wish to do so, the pointed relevance
of psycho-analytic theories to his own field of special study, and to
those who so approach them both of these volumes will be found
of interest. Both are collections of essays and papers among which
some are concerned with topics of psychical research.
Dr H. G. Bayens, who died in 1943, was the chief exponent of
Jung in this country and the present volume contains most of his
shorter papers together with the first three chapters of an un-
finished book. The two papers directly concerned with psychical
research will already be known to members of the Society for
Psychical Research. 'The Ghost as a Psychic Phenomenon '
was read at a private meeting of the society in 1936. '
Jung's Con-
195 1 ] Reviews 473
ception of the Structure of Personality in relation to Psychical
Research '
was published in the Society's Proceedings in 1941.
The author's interest in psychical research is also reflected, in some
measure, in the essay from which the volume takes its name.
'
Analytical Psychology and the English Mind '
is an entertaining
study of our national character as this character appears when cast
into a Jungian mould. The English people are '
peculiar ', he
says, in possessing an extraverted psychology complicated by the
influence of an introverted minority voice. Their national myth
has found expression in the '
idea of a gentleman '. True, the
Latin word gentilis had acquired even in ancient Rome something
of the same connotation of '
derivation from good stock '. True,
too, that the idea has affinities with others all over the world,
even with the ancestor-worship of the Chinese; but the special
character with which the English temperament has invested the
idea of a gentleman comes '
without doubt '
{sic) from the legends
of King Arthur and his knights. The Arthurian '
principle of fair
play ', it is said, pervades every aspect of our life. The gentle-
manly code of the public schools and the Universities is based
'
solely '
[sic) on this principle.
Characteristics of English life that cannot be so explained spring
from the '
introverted interior '. Hence, side by side with con-
ventionality is the readiness to welcome new ideas, e.g. the psy-
chology of Jung. To this element in our nature—or is it perhaps
the ancestor-worship element?—must be attributed our partiality
to ghosts, and our benign attitude to the S.P.R. '
In no other
civilized country are there so many haunted houses to be found.'
In no other literature is there so large a place found for the '
di-
mension of the unconscious '. And so on.
'Well, well!' the hard-headed, extraverted Briton may say.
'
All this may indeed be true, but the author hardly sets out the
evidence that such is in fact the case.' To which, of course, the
introverted minority voice may well reply: '
Why, indeed, should
he? Someone must excogitate hypotheses for other people to
test.' These two comments would be equally appropriate for all
the other essays in this book. All are equally provocative to those
who ask for evidence; all are equally exciting to those who get on
well enough without it.
Nor, in Freud's papers, is it always easy to distinguish specula-
tion from supporting fact. But it is not possible to generalize
about the essays in this book. This fifth volume of the Collected
Papers consists of odds and ends—mainly the shorter writings
published since 1925 and miscellaneous papers excluded '
for
various reasons '
from the earlier volumes.
The essay of chief interest for psychical research is that on '
The
474 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY i)i
Occult Significance of Dreams in which Freud extracts from 1^
evidence against precognition evidence /or telepathy. Briefly the
argument is that the fortune-teller's prediction expresses what the '
sitter desires, unwittingly obtaining the knowledge of these ^
desires by telepathic means. Freud believes that thought trans- '
jj
ference occurs most easily when the idea is in transition from the |^
unconscious to the conscious mind. He suggests further that j
telepathic messages unconsciously received during the day may ,
^
come into consciousness in dreams that occur during the following ,
^
night. Through psycho-analysis it may accordingly be possible j jj
to obtain further and better authenticated knowledge of this tele- i
jj
pathic process. From these two books alone it is not possible ;
j,
fairly to assess the relative contributions of Jungian and Freudian j jj,
psychology to the progress of psychical research. On a first im- j j,
pression it might be tempting to suppose that the Jungian position
is more sympathetic than the Freudian to the aims and tentative ;
^
conclusions of research in this field. When, however, it comes to a | |j
clear-cut issue, as for example the question of survival after death, j|,
the disciple of Jung is no less non-committal than the disciple of jj
Freud. No statement could be more non-committal than that of
Dr Baynes. '
We cannot determine whether the spirit world is an
aspect of the impersonal psyche or whether it exists independently, jj
It is practically impossible to decide whether the spirits of the dead |jj
exist independently of the psyche or whether they live because we
give them life.'
\
Of greater interest than the question of commitments is the ,
diff^erence between the two schools in their attitudes to scientific
'
method. The Jungian is much less deferential than the Freudian
to the authority of science, and proportionately more sympathetic
to the claims of '
intuition '. In this respect Freud himself was I
was almost oldfashioned. These differences, however, do not '
»'
carry the implication that psychical research has more to hope il
from Jung than it has from Freud. The implications, such as they ;
are, work the other way. Nothing is more striking in the recent !
'I
development of psychical research than the increasing rigour of its T
scientific methods. Those who pursue this research challenge the ii
natural scientist on his own ground. They claim no privilege and j
P
they ask for no quarter. If a choice had to be made between ;
mysticism and logic, Freud and the modern psychical researcher i
would, without question, find themselves down on the same side I
P
of the fence. If there is any difference between them it might even j
fl
be that modern psychical research is in fact the more exacting in its i
t
demands for scientific proof. c
C. A. Mace i
1951] Reviews 475
i I Appeal unto Caesar (The Scripts of Cleophas). By Geraldine
Cummins. London, Psychic Press, 1950. 189 pp. los. 6d.
This further instalment of the Scripts of Cleophas needs only a
brief notice. In character it closely resembles its predecessors, and
as a reconstruction of certain incidents in St Paul's life and of the
last days of Mary, the Mother of Jesus, is not without a certain
vividness of presentation. This might be expected, since,
whatever be the source of the material, it has come through the
mental processes of Miss Cummins, who is an accomplished
novelist. The difficulty in making any scientific use of such
automatic scripts as these is obvious. Even if they do contain
- traces of genuine historical evidence it is quite impossible to
identify or verify them. In some respects, as in the use of such
names as Adaiam and Tyrronnis, the records do not sound very
probable. And where they do agree with modern discoveries of one
sort or another it is impossible to say whether Miss Cummins may
'
have had access at some time to those discoveries, either directly or
I through the mind of Miss Gibbes or of some other person. To
I say this is not to deny her complete sincerity as an automatist.
But whether as history or as material for the study of automatic
writing the scripts have no value. Their interest, which is real
enough, is simply that of a historical novel, and as such (and, it is to
be hoped, only as such) they will be enjoyed by many.
I L. W. Grensted
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research.
Volume 45, No. 2, April 1951. New York, A.S.P.R. $1.50.
Dr C. B. Nash, a biologist, who was responsible for some of the
better-designed early PK experiments, contributes a paper in
which he discusses the possibility of Precognition in explaining
dice-throwing results. '
It is possible that the significant results
in P K tests so far reported have been due to precognition instead
of PK. In any case a test of pure PK has yet to be performed.'
This, of course, was written before the publication of Thouless's
investigations which were designed to eliminate the possibility of
precognition {Proceedings, XLIX, 195 1, pp. 107-30).
Hereward Carrington discusses the criteria by which the
evidence for psychic phenomena should be judged. For physical
phenomena, he thinks the ideal psychical researcher should have
these qualities: a thorough knowledge of trickery and the psy-
chology of deception, accurate observation, infinite patience,
'
calmness, extreme caution, a grounding in biology, psychiatry, etc.
and some knowledge of laboratory technique.
For all branches of the subject the researcher should have made
476 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
a thorough study of the literature, and a knowledge of psychology
and an open mind are all-important.
Mrs Salter reviews the scripts of the S.P.R. group of automatists
who were responsible for the well-known '
cross-correspondences
'
during the years 1901 to 1930.
In '
Psi patterns amongst the Australian Aborigines ', Lyndon
Rose summarises ten interesting cases. '
There was no attempt
on our part to document these stories completely. Our interest in
them lay in their patterns, and the leads they could give to our
research. The probability or otherwise of these stories having
foundation in fact lay in the standardised tests applied to the
aborigines and the analysis of them.' The last remark refers to
unpublished P K and ESP tests, but one cannot help regretting the
missed opportunity to present these spontaneous cases in fully
documented form.
Mrs L. A. Dale reviews Sixty Years of PsychicalResearch, byJoseph
L. Rinn, published last year in New York. The text is shown to be
a tissue of irresponsible misrepresentations and inaccuracies. Mr
Rinn, who set out in this book to discredit all psychic phenomena
and research workers, is now thoroughly discredited. (See also
W. H. Salter's review in the S.P.R. Journal for May-June 195 1.)
Of particular interest is an item in the Report of the A. S.P.R.
Research Committee. A research group consisting of Dr M.
Ullman, Dr J. L. Woodruff, Mr W. Triebel, and Mrs Dale, are
investigating the question of whether or not the physiological
concomitants of psi effects can be detected instrumentally.
D. P.
THE FRAUDULENT MEDIUMS BILL
This Bill, which received its second reading in the House of
Commons on i December 1950 (see S.P.R. Journal for January-
February 195 1 ), was read a third time on 20 April 1951. It was
given its first and second readings in the House of Lords on 24
April and 3 May 1951 respectively.
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
Society for Psychical Research
31 Tavistock Square • London •
WCi
SUPPLEMENT
TO
JOURNAL
Volume XXXVI No. 665 July-August 195
1
FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of the Society was held at 31 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C. i, on Thursday, 26 April 1951, at 3 p.m., under
the chairmanship of Lord Charles Hope.
The Secretary having read the notice convening the Meeting, the
Report of the Council and the Accounts were presented. The Hon.
Secretary, W. H. Salter, in proposing the adoption of the Annual Report
and Accounts, gave a review of the Society's work during the year.
His remarks are printed below. The adoption of the Annual Report
and Accounts was seconded by P. S. Seward, and carried unanimously.
The Chairman announced that there were no candidates for election
to membership of the Council other than the six members who retired
by rotation, and who offered themselves for re-election, and on the
proposal of W. H. Salter, seconded by Denis Chesters, the following
six members were accordingly unanimously elected: Mrs Oliver Gatty,
Dr S. G. Soal, Professor F. J. M. Stratton, the Rev. C. Drayton
Thomas, Dr R. H. Thouless, and G. N. M. Tyrrell. On the proposal
of Mrs W. H. Salter, seconded by Professor F. J. M. Stratton, Messrs
Miall, Harper & Co. were re-elected Auditors for the forthcoming year.
Hon. Secretary's Review of the Year
By the time of the next Annual Meeting, in 1952, this Society will
have completed three score years and ten, having had a much longer
period of unbroken activity than any other Society formed for similar
purposes. In view of this fact, and of the recent changes in the Society's
organization, it might be well that we should devote a little time this
afternoon to a general stocktaking. If you will allow me, I will in pro-
posing the adoption of the Annual Report of the Council advert briefly
to some points which I think it is desirable for our members to bear in
mind, taking as my text the name of the Society, the Society for
Psychical Research.
ii Siippleme7it to Journal, July-August 1951
I will deal first with the last word, '
Research '. This Society con-
ducts many activities, holding meetings, issuing publications of many
kinds, and maintaining a Library. All these things are useful in them-
selves, but their value should be judged according to the contribution
they make to our research. We are, I think, all agreed that our founders
were right in laying down the principle that we should approach our
problems objectively and '
without prejudice or prepossession of any
kind '. There have indeed from time to time been movements in the
Society, the effect, if not the object, of which would have been, had they
succeeded, to make the Society no longer a Society for research but one
holding definite opinions and doctrines regarding the subject matter of
our investigation. I think that it is now generally recognized among our
members that a move in that direction would be a mistake.
I now turn to what is perhaps a more difficult and debateable question,
the meaning of Psychical research. Our founders very wisely did not
attempt any exact definition, and in fact pursued a very large number
of lines of inquiry which it might have been difficult to reduce to any
logical formula. The danger seventy years ago may have been one
of too great dispersal of effort. But too great concentration on any one
branch of our subject may have dangers of its own. We may congratu-
late ourselves that we have been able to avoid this. In psychical re-
search—as, I think, in philosophy and psychology—particular problems
have a way of forcing themselves on the attention of inquirers for a time,
and then falling into the background, so that the vital issues of one
generation seem of very remote interest to the next. The same thing
can be traced in the history of psychical research, as may be seen if the
amount of space devoted in our Proceedings in any decade to one side of
our subject be compared with the amount given in the next. There was,
for example, a period during which the energies of the best minds within
the Society were devoted to the elucidation of automatic writing, and
a corresponding amount of space in the Proceedings was devoted to
their labours. Between the wars a very great deal of skilled energy,
printing space, and money was expended in the investigation of physical
phenomena. In the last year or two before the War our main attention
became focussed on quantitative experiments in ESP, and is still so
centred. I think this periodical change of interest is unavoidable,
because in each case the phenomena raised problems which required
thorough investigation and discussion. Although, however, the main
interest was directed now to this and now to that branch of our studies,
inquiries on other lines were going on concurrently. Speaking for
myself, I feel sure that it would be a most mistaken policy if we were
to abandon or to relegate to a subordinate position those traditional
lines of investigation which do not happen at the moment to be in the
fashion, because I believe that there is a very difficult problem of human
personality involved, and that if there is any practicable solution of it, it
will only be achieved by attacking it from a great number of different
points at once. We all admire the notable successes which have been
achieved in parapsychology by Professor Rhine and the other members
of his staff whom we had the pleasure of meeting in England last
summer, but parapsychology, as hitherto understood in America, seems
Supplement to Journal, July-August 195 1 in
to be a very much narrower affair than psychical research, and it is to
psychical research that we as a Society are committed.
And we are a Society, not a University department. In a University
it is possible for the Head of a Faculty to direct his staff to conduct
investigations along particular lines, and to exercise a close supervision
over the work they are doing. This has never been attempted in our
Society, and in view of the very wide scope of our investigations it would
be hopeless to attempt it. Our members have always been encouraged
to pursue whatever lines of research make a special appeal to them, and
they are at liberty, if they so desire, to get advice and assistance from
fellow members, including of course the Officers of the Society.
As a result of our having no organic connexion with any University
or other official body, and being as we are dependent largely on the
subscriptions of members, we find it both desirable and necessary to
deal by correspondence and interview with a large number of inquiries
and suggestions from within and outside the Society that would not
probably come our way if we were a University department. Those
who have worked for any length of time in the Society's offices would, I
think, agree that they have learnt a great deal from these letters and
interviews, but at the same time they absorb a great deal of the Officers'
time, frequently with little to show for it. We must, however, look at it
from the point of view of the persons who write to the Society or seek
an interview with one of the Officers. They are often persons in a
state of bewilderment, and sometimes distress, as the result of ' psychic
'
experiences that have befallen them. It is no unworthy task, I think, to
give these people such help as we can, help that they will certainly not
get in as enlightened and disinterested a way from any other quarter.
Little by little each letter, each interview, helps to spread among a
public lamentably ill-informed on these matters a more sensible and
more scientific view of psychical research. Ultimately, therefore, and
in a most roundabout way all this does promote research: it brings us in
new members, it brings us in new contacts with psychic phenomena of
every kind.
The problem which has always faced the Society is how best to com.-
bine two objects. First, the general day-to-day business of the Society,
including all this business of contacts with members and the public
which I have already mentioned, and (2) the more technical side of our
research. A governing factor is, of course, the financial position of the
Society. For the last twenty years and more the Society, as is natural in
a body dependent almost entirely on the support of the professional
classes, has been in difficulties. In almost every Annual Report that I
have drafted during those years I have used the phrase '
financial
stringency ', or I have with difficulty restrained myself from doing so.
Certainly a year ago things were pretty bad, and we had an excess of
expenditure over income amounting to ^Sl^- During the present year
things have taken a much more hopeful turn, and although the last
thing the Council desire would be to encourage undue optimism, they
can point with pride to the fact that they have this year achieved a
surplus of some £6i\S> of receipts over expenditure. The principal
causes of this are set out in paragraph six of the Annual Report. I may
iv Supplement to Journal, July-August
remind you that the Society has not during the year had a salaried
Research Officer. Dr West has obtained an appointment at the
Maudsley Hospital, and we all wish him the greatest possible success in
his profession. He will still reside on the Society's premises and be
able to give time to psychical research. Then we have been enjoying
for a second year the fruits of the Appeal which drew such a generous
response from our membership: we earnestly hope that this help will
be continued. Lastly I would mention the lapse of the pension of 175
paid to Miss Newton during her life.
Some re-organization both of the general work and of the research
has become necessary, and members will like to know what arrange-
ments have been made. As mentioned in the Annual Report for 1949,
the Council were able to persuade Mrs Goldney to undertake the post
of Organizing Secretary, and the successful conduct of the Society's
business during the recent year has been in a large measure due to the
energy and efficiency which she has brought to her task and to the very
friendly collaboration between herself and our Secretary, Miss Horsell.
She has been able to deal successfully with a very large number of matters
cropping up from time to time to which it would have been extremely
difficult for any of the other Officers of the Society to give adequate
attention. Grateful mention should also be made of the very great 1
amount of work that has been put in by Mrs Gay, who has been
in constant attendance at the Rooms. She has been particularly
helpful in bringing order into the past research records of the Society,
which owing to war conditions had fallen into great confusion. Under
the joint efforts of Miss Horsell, Mrs Goldney, and Mrs Gay I have no
hesitation in saying that the business of the office is being more effi-
ciently run than it has been for many years past. But it should be
borne in mind that our office staff now consists of one full-time and one
part-time Secretary. If we could afford a staff of three full-time workers,
we could probably find plenty of work for them to do.
Another Officer to whom the Society owes an incalculable debt is
Edward Osborn, who in addition to completely revolutionizing the
Journal, which has now become a most valuable instrument of publicity
to the Society, was the mainspring in organizing the recent Appeal,
which saved the situation financially. Few of our members, unless they
are themselves working in the office, know the enormous amount of
time that Mr Osborn has unstintingly given to the Society.
But it still remained for the Council to see that research of the kind
requiring specialized knowledge was being vigorously pursued. In the
Council's view the best way of securing this was to make awards for
useful pieces of research, and to invite applications for grants to help
in carrying out research projects that seemed to be sufficiently promising.
It is hoped that many well-thought-out projects will be submitted to the
Council in response to the invitation already made.
By re-organization within the office and the offer of grants and awards
the Council consider that an active research policy should be practicable.
But they wish to urge on the younger members of the Society the de-
sirability of making themselves experts in one or more of the various
techniques that are becoming more and more necessary in psychical
Supplement to Journal, July-August 195 1 v
research. Although our membership is increasing, we still have far too
few workers with specialized knowledge. In this connexion I must
refer to the loss the Society is about to sustain by the departure for
America of one of our most active workers, Mr Fraser Nicol. He has
accepted a post in the Parapsychology Laboratory at Duke University,
so that the loss to the Society will mean no loss, but rather a gain, to
psychical research. We wish him every success and happiness in his
new home and new career.
To return to finance, the improvement in the position will certainly
not encourage extravagance on the part of the Council. It is desirable,
and should be possible, to increase the amount allocated for printing.
Our pubhcations are the only immediate benefit that a large proportion
of our membership derive from their subscriptions, but they should
bear in mind that every page of Proceedings or Journal now costs over
£2 3s. 6d. a page to print (exclusive of any diagrams or illustrations).
The Society may in a few years' time be faced with heavy expense, as
in 1956 our existing lease runs out. The freehold has been acquired
by London University, and there is a considerable chance that the
building may be needed for University purposes. In that case the
Society would have to find premises elsewhere and meet the costs of
removal.
During the past year the Society has received some generous legacies,
and it is to be hoped that members will not lose sight of the Society's
need for help in this form. Legacies are now being kept separate in the
accounts from current receipts and current expenditure, a procedure
which enables members to appreciate more easily what the Society's
financial position is. The Council intend to use the funds standing in
the separate account as a nest egg on which they can draw for special
expenditure which could not easily be met from current income.
To end with a few cheerful remarks, Mr Parsons has arranged for us
a fuller programme of interesting meetings than we have ever had
before. There is a very marked increase in the public interest in
psychical research and in the Society, as shown by references in books,
newspapers, etc., and, most significant, the Royal Institution last
December invited Dr Thouless to deliver a discourse on '
Thought-
transference and Related Phenomena '. This is the first paper on any
subject connected with psychical research ever read to the Institution
since its foundation in 1799. Finally, for the first time for many years,
we have a membership of over 1,000, which is still steadily increasing.
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
This year the rooms, including the Library, will not be closed
during the summer.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
Meetings of the Council were held as follows:
464th 16 March 195 1 Chairman : The President, Dr S. G. Soal.
465th 26 April 195 1 Chairman : Lord Charles Hope.
vi Supplement to Journal, July-August 1951
466th 26 April 1 95 1 Cliairman : W. H. Salter.
At the meeting of the Council held on 16 March 1951, Professor
A. C. Hardy, F.R.S., was co-opted as a member of Council.
At the meeting of the Council held before the Annual General
Meeting on 26 April 195 1, the following co-optations to the Council
were renewed for the current year : The Hon. Mrs Gay, Professor
A. C. Hardy, J. Fraser Nicol, Edward Osborn, Dr D. J. West, and Dr
R. Wilson. G. W. Fisk was co-opted as a member of the Council for
the current year.
At the meeting of the Council held immediately after the Annual
General Meeting on 26 April 195 1 the following were elected :
Dr S. G. Soal was elected President for the year ; Admiral the Hon.
A. C. Strutt, Hon. Treasurer ; W. H. Salter and Denys Parsons, Hon.
Secretaries ; Mrs. W. H. Salter, Hon. Editor of Proceedings ; Edward
Osborn, Hon. Editor of the Journal.
Committee of Reference and Publication : Professor C. D. Broad, Mrs
Frank Heywood, Denys Parsons, Professor H. H. Price, W. H. Salter,
Mrs W. H. Salter, Dr S. G. Soal, Dr R. H. Thouless, G. N. M.
Tyrrell, and Dr D. J. West.
Finance Committee : Mrs K. M. Goldney, Lord Charles Hope,
G. W. Lambert, and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
House Committee : Mrs Goldney, Miss I. Jephson, Edward Osborn,
W. H. Salter, and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Library Committee : Dr E. J. Dingwall, the Hon. Mrs Gay, J.
Fraser Nicol, Edward Osborn, and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY
235th Thursday, 8 February 1951, at 6.30 p.m. The Rev. C. C.
Martindale, S.J. :
'
The Fatima Case '.
236th Thursday, i March 195 1, at 6.30 p.m. The Rev. C. Drayton
Thomas :
'
Some Noteworthy Incidents in my Sittings with
Mrs Leonard '.
237th Thursday, 15 March 1951, at 6.30 p.m. Mary Scrutton :
'
Is Psychical Research a Rational Subject?
'
238th Thursday, 5 April 195 1, at 3 p.m. H. J. D. Murton :
'
Psy-
chical Research and the Press '.
239th Thursday, 19 April 1951, at 6.30 p.m. James Hayes :
'
Some
New Techniques in ESP Research '.
240th Thursday, 3 May 195 1, at 6.30 p.m. Dr D. J. West :
'
A New
Theory of Some ESP Effects
NEW MEMBERS .
,
Members
(Elected 16 March 1951)
Caspary, Dr A., 303 West 80th Street, New York 24, U.S.A.
Chaffee, Mrs K. P., c/o Mrs E. G. Hutson, 3 Pavilion Court, Hastings,
St Michael's, Barbados, B.W.I.
Suppletnent to Journal, July-August 195 1 vii
Chambers, H. F., m.v.o., 7 Montpelier Place, London, S.W. 7.
Goldberg, O., m.d., 53 West 76th Street, New York 23, U.S.A.
Greenwell, T., 74 Central Hill, Upper Norwood, London, S.E. 19.
Grove-White, Lt.-Col. T., Parklands, Glanmire, Co. Cork, Eire.
Krasner, H., The Haven, Selsdon Vale, South Croydon, Surrey.
Landau, L., 233 West Heath Road, London, N.W. 3.
Librarian, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge 3, Louisiana,
U.S.A.
Morgan, W. H. D., ph.d., i Osborne Road, Redhill, Surrey.
Oldham, A. V., 178 Knowsley Road, St Helens, Lanes.
Shelton, p. H., II St George's Place, Westmount, Montreal 6,
Canada.
Thomas, C. W. F., l.d.s., 362 Mare Street, London, E. 8.
West, R. P. H., 72 Somerset Road, Kensington, Johannesburg, S.
Africa.
Winn, D. S. Merrick, 5 Queensboro' Studios, Hyde Park, London,
W. 2.
WooDWORTH, L. A., 21 Hugo Street, Krugersdorp, Transvaal, S.
Africa.
Student Associates
Cole, Martin J., Connaught Hall, Wessex Lane, Swaythling, Southamp-
ton.
Tustin, John R., 121 Poole Road, Bournemouth, Hants.
Members
{Elected 26 April 195 1)
Andrews-Levinge, Mrs K. T., The Manor, Stoughton, nr Chichester,
Sussex
Kenyon, F. E., Holly Bank, Currier Lane, Ashton-under-Lyne, Lanes.
KiRKHAM, J. L., 184 Dover Road, Folkestone, Kent.
Librarian, Selskabet for Psykisk Forskning, St Kannikestraede 10,
Copenhagen K., Denmark.
Linton, S. F., m.d., m.sc. The Old Mill, Cloughton, Scarborough.
Riggall, R. M., L.R.C.P., Northumberland House, Green Lanes,
Finsbury Park, London, N. 4.
Sibley, Professor M. Q., 395 Ford Hall, University of Mmnesota,
Minneapolis 14, Minnesota, U.S.A.
Student Associate
Roll, WiUiam G., 10 Northmoor Road, Oxford.
JOURNAL
of the
Society for Psychical Research
Volume XXXVI No. 666 September-October 195 i
THE EXTENSION OF MIND
A New Theoretical Basis for Psi Phenomena
By J. R. Smythies, m.b., b.chir.
SUMMARY
The resuhs of the recent experiments in parapsychology cannot be
fitted into any current scientific theory. This suggests that the funda-
mental assumptions, on which natural science is based, should be
reconsidered and possibly revised. The aim of this paper is to examine
some of these fundamental assumptions, and to suggest a series of
alternative assumptions which give a more coherent account of the
universe and the place of the conscious mind in it. We can then account
satisfactorily for the facts of parapsychology.
I. INTRODUCTION
I should like in this paper^ to examine the implications of the
present experimental position in parapsychology for the main body
of natural science. The following important fact has been
established by experiment:
The mind is able to abstract information from its present and
future environment without the use of any of the recognized
channels of sense.
We must correlate this fact with the theory at present held in
natural science of the nature of the mind and its relation to the brain.
If this cannot be done we must introduce a new theory which can
account for this fact. The former course would necessitate the
construction of some form of '
radiation '
theory. No one has yet
succeeded in this, nor does it seem possible for the following
reasons:
^ Dr Smythies has recently completed a study in which he suggests that
a number of fundamental changes should be made in the basic pre-
suppositions of natural science in order to account for the genesis of
perceptual space and the facts of parapsychology. These changes are
expressed in a new theor>', an outline of which he has kindly written for
this Joumal.^
—
Ed.
477
478 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [sept.
(a) It seems unlikely that any simple electro-magnetic radiation
could convey complex information through dura mater, bone, and
scalp and up to two hundred miles of space without there being
any apparent organization concerned with this function. Any
penetrating radiation of this type would have to be of the X-ray
or wireless wave frequency, whose energy requirements would seem
to be beyond the capacity of the brain. Nothing resembling
transmitting apparatus has been found in the brain.
The implication of the current theory, as presented by Gilbert
Ryle,^ J. Z. Young,'•^
and others, is that the mind bears the same
relation to the brain as the digestion does to the viscera—no more
and no less. The brain is supposed to function according to the
same principles as analogue and digital computing machines.
According to this theory a thought is an extremely complex pattern
of electrons in the brain, and human thinking and perceiving are
done entirely by the almost fabulously complex system of inter-
connected nerve cells and fibres which sustain and conduct these
patterns. There seems to be no room in the brain for a mechanism
which would have to do the following things :
It would have to scan the incoming electronic patterns carrying
the sense data from the sensory nerves, and transform these into a
signal code in the form of penetrating radiation. There would also
have to be a separate mechanism for receiving such information and
for translating it back into the form of circulating impulse patterns.
For the operation of clairvoyance, this mechanism must further be
capable of abstracting information from outside objects, which
would require quite different apparatus. There would have to be a
device for feeding this extrasensory information into the main
current of information, and, it seems, a mechanism for active censor-
ship so that only a certain number of extrasensory hits are obtained.
It would seem in a successful ESP experiment, where a significant
number of these complex patterns are altered in a highly specific
way, that there should be a great deal of such organization to do
these highly complex things, such as abstracting information from
a pack of ESP cards or from someone else's brain. There does
not seem to be any trace of these mechanisms in the brain. It
does not seem possible to attribute these phenomena to any
primitive property of matter, or protoplasm, in view of the
extremely complex nature of the process involved in changing, for
instance, a series of cortical patterns ABCDEF to ABDDDF.
Although ESP has only been demonstrated as a statistical effect,
^ The Concept of Mind (London, Hutchinson's University Library,
1949)-
^ Doubt and Certainty in Science (London, Oxford University Press,
1951)-
ig^i] The Extension of Mind 479
nevertheless the change from C to D and E to D represents a
change from one unique cortical pattern to another unique pattern,
and not to any of the other enormous number of possible patterns.
Thus it would seem that we are looking for the organization
necessary to execute these functions.
{b) No known form of radiation extends into the future and
there is no place in natural science for the demonstrated determi-
nation of a present event by a future event. This point alone is
crucial.
Therefore we must seriously consider our second course; a
critical examination of the whole system of pre-suppositions and
postulates from which science builds. ^ Since natural science is able
to give such a coherent and inclusive account of phenomena inside
the physical space-time continuum, any radical changes here do
not seem feasible, and we must look outside these bounds for any
possible advances in knowledge.
2. THE CRISIS IN KNOWLEDGE
The crisis in human knowledge caused by the discoveries of
parapsychology affects not only psychology, neurophysiology,
philosophy, and metaphysics, but also, and most profoundly,
physics itself. This is because the same fundamental assumptions
lie at the basis of each of these systems of inquiry. The present
position of scientific knowledge rests on a tangled and inter-
connected series of such assumptions and theories, which lead
from one field of study into another. Confusion is caused by the
use of the words and concepts of '
space ', '
mind ', and '
psyche '.
These words have several different meanings, and the confusion
arises when deductions are drawn from their use in one context,
when one of the other meanings of the words is really intended.
We will also discover, in all these subjects, the ramifications of
an entirely erroneous theory, derived from our common-sense
outlook upon the world. I will call this the '
transparent nervous
system '
theory (or TN S theory for short). It is that the Self, the
observer, is looking out directly at the physical world extended in
space and time before it, through the sense organs, as though these
^
As Margaret Knight suggests may be necessary in her article '
Theo-
retical Implications of Telepathy' in Science Neivs, No. 18. Professor
Broad has called for '
very radical changes in a number of our basic
limiting principles '
(' The Relevance of Psychical Research to Philo-
sophy ', Philosophy, vol. 24, 1949, p. 306). Dr Thouless has suggested a
radical re-orientation of thought (' Expeimental Precognition and its
Implications \y. Soc. Psychic. Res., vol. 35, 1950, p. 209).
480 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [sept.
were transparent. The familiar world of perception is thus
supposed to be a direct view of the physical world. The error is
aided by our erroneous identification of the familiar body-image^ in
consciousness, with the physical body itself.
The following passages from E. L. Hutton ^ are very relevant
:
'
The part played by the body in our perception of the external
world is of the greatest importance, and is much neglected by realist
philosophers.'^ The author feels that not only has it been neglected by
the realist school of philosophy but by all philosophers, and that this
neglect is responsible for many of the difficulties and inconsistencies of
both realists and idealists.
First and foremost it is important to draw attention to the fact that a
percipient's awareness of his own body is, like his awareness of other
objects, based upon the occurrence of temporo-spatial patterns in his
own cerebral cortex. . . .
(pp. 154-5).
The difficulty of both realists and idealists seems to arise from a
confusion of the perceived body with the percipient's actual body.
Because of the experienced dependency of all perceived objects upon the
perceived state of the percipient's body the ability to perceive them is
located within this perceived body, and the mind is thought of as being
located within this perceived skull ; but what is often forgotten is that
this body and this skull are themselves objects of perception.
Now not only am I aware of my own body but also of other bodies
similar to mine, and spatially related to my body, to each other, and to
all other objects within my perceptual field. ... (p. 156. My italics).
Now a scientist is a sentient individual, and as such may observe or be
observed by other sentient beings, and what applies to them applies
equally to him. His researches are directed towards a limited number of
objects and events selected out of the total field of which he is perceptu-
ally aware, and this limitation of his interest is designated by his
scientific title, geologist, physicist, biologist, anthropologist, etc. The
objects of his study are brought by means of attention into the fore-
ground of his consciousness, and as far as possible isolated and studied
in detachment from the objects constituting the background of the field,
including his own body. For reasons already stated many scientists are
misled into believing that the objects and events they are studying have
a real existence independently of them, whereas in fact, as we are
learning from neurophysiology, these objects and events are only
' The meaning I convey by the phrase '
body-image '
is conveyed by
some people by the phrase '
immanent perceived body '. I am postulating
three spatially distinct entities : {a) the physical body (b) the body-image in
the brain, and (c) the body-itnage in consciousness or immanent perceived body.
When I use the phrase '
body-image '
by itself I refer to (c).
^
' The Relationship of Mind and Matter to Personality ' in D.
Richter (ed.). Perspectives in Neuropsychiatry (London, H. K. Lewis,
1950) pp. 141-72.
' From W. Russell Brain in Philosophy, vol. 21 (1946) no. 133.
195 1] The Extension of Mind 481
determined by things existing independently, their actual nature
depending entirely^ on the temporo-spatial patterns occurring in the
scientists' own cerebral cortices. They are actually but unwittingly
studying the effects of the dynamic activity which is occurring each in
his own central nervous system, and the observed '
laws of nature '
are
the observed sequences in their own perceptual field. If similar
cortical patterns are aroused in several individuals, either by a common
stimulus or by separate but similar stimuli, they will all observe similar
sequences in their perceptual field, and they will all deduce the same
'
laws of nature '. They can be observed, both by themselves and by
other sentient individuals, performing similar experiments, using
similar measuring devices, and describing their work in similar phrase-
ology. None the less, and it cannot be too strongly stressed, each man
is studying what he himself perceives, and what he perceives depends
directly upon his own cortical activity ; the objects of his study have
their existence only in him (pp. 159-60).
Not only are many scientists thus misled, but the whole structure
of physical and biological science rests on assumptions arising out
of this error. Not only do the objects and events the scientist is
observing depend upon the temporo-spatial patterns occurring in
his own cerebral cortex, but the perceptual space-system, in which
they are extended, and in which they are spatially related to his
perceived body, is the space-time system of his ?nind.
A useful working concept to use during this argument is that we
are each connected to the physical world by an extensive signalling
mechanism. At one end this is connected to various sense-organs
on the surface of and inside the body. The other end we experience
as our familiar visual picture of the world, its sounds, and its
smells, and the signals from our body which we experience as our
body-image in consciousness with its pressures, aches, and pains.
Changes in these sense organs, produced by various physical
stimuli, are swiftly signalled via the sensory nerves and central
nervous system into our perceptual fields. We must note that we
are given (as data) the Self, examining its own private world,
whose events are merely determined by events in the outside
physical world (including the physical body), by the signalling
mechanism in between. Science has traced this signalling
mechanism as far as the brain, but, as Margaret Knight says in her
recent article :
Even the strictest adherent of epiphenomenalism admits that there is a
^ There is no justification for the use of this word entirely. The
author's identification of perceptual space with the spatial organization of
the brain is merely an assumption. All that neurophysiology shows us is
that we cannot identify objects as observed with the physical objects
themselves. It does not show us that we must identify them with these
patterns in the brain.—J.R.S.
482 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [sept.
complete gap in our knowledge at one point. We now know a great
deal about the mechanics of sense-perception. We know, for example,
that when we hear a noise, a sound-wave has affected our ear-drum, and
set up a chain of activities in the middle and inner ear, in the auditory
nerve, and finally in the cerebral cortex. But how electro-chemical
activity in the cortex can give rise to the conscious experience of hearing •
a bell, is still completely obscure. As James wrote in 1892, '
something
'
definite happens when to a certain brain-state a certain " sciousness
"
corresponds.'^
So we must further note that, while physical space-time is on
the distal side of this gap in our understanding of the signalling
mechanism, perceptual space-time is indubitably on the proximal
side, and is in part a creation of the '
mind ', as we may call it at
present. This is not clearly recognized at present by theoretical
physics.
I will return to the whole question of the extension of the mind
later when considering the current concepts of philosophy, but it
will suffice to mention here that both the theory that the mind does
not occupy space, and the theory that it is meaningless to discuss
whether the mind does or does not occupy space, are consequences
of the T N S fallacy of common sense. The mind must be regarded
as both clearly extended in part (the perceptual world) and
apparently not so extended (Self).
There is an important passage in Sherrington's Man on His
Nature. (My italics show where I disagree).
At the core of this difficulty is the attribute '
unextended '
as applied
to the finite mind. It is difficult to reconcile this attribution with
certain facts. The mind of the individual, finite mind, as judged by an
impressive concensus of opinion, has '
place '. It has '
whereness '
;
nor does it viatter for our purpose of the moment what '
where '
it has. It
has a '
where '. Speaking for myself, although I can allow dialectically
a Euclidean point and admit its artificiality to be a useful convention, it
is beyond me to conceive or figure or imagine even approximately a
concrete anything as having '
whereness '
without magnitude. A thing
without extension as descriptive of the mind, even though negatively
descriptive, fails for me to be more than a conventional symbol. ...
Accepting finite mind as having a '
where '
and that '
where '
within
the brain, we find that the energy-system with which we correlate the
mind has of course extension and parts and exhibits, moreover, marked ;
spatial organization of those of its parts correlating in space and time
with finite mind. . . . We have, I think, to accept that finite mind is in j
extended space. ^ ;
The acceptance of finite mind having a '
where '
does not,
' '
Theoretical Implications of Telepathy '
in Science News, No. 18.
^ Sir Charles Sherrington, Man on His Nature (Cambridge University
Press, 1940) pp. 314-15.
1951] The Extension of Mind 483
however, compel us to put that '
where '
in the brain, as both
Hutton and Sherrington suppose. We are only compelled to do so
as long as we lack any '
where '
else to put it.
3. THE CRISIS IN PHYSICS
If we examine the concept of space we find five categories
recognized:
(i) Perceptual space.
(ii) Physical space.
(iii) Absolute space (of Newton),
(iv) Abstract space.
(ivA) Higher-dimensional space.
These are taken from Jeans. ^ I have only altered his classification
by extracting (ivA) out of (iv). If we further examine how these
are supposed to differ from each other, and how they are derived,
we come across the first series of assumptions to be considered,
and, furthermore, we find that the first of them is based on the TN S
theory. They are:
(1) That perceptual space is coincident with all physical space.
(2) That four axes are sufficient to describe the physical uni-
verse, and all objects and events in it ; that the same four axes may
be used to describe the perceptual world, and all objects and events
in it ; and that there is nothing outside these four axes, i.e. in
higher-dimensional space.
In order to illustrate how these assumptions lie at the basis of
theoretical physics, we may consider the suppositions made by
Einstein in the Special Theory of Relativity. The following
passages are taken from Relativity: the Special and the General
Theory."^ The italics are mine throughout.
The practice, for example, of seeing in a '
distance '
two marked positions
on a practically rigid body is something which is lodged deeply iri our habit
of thought. We are accustomed further to regard three points as being
situated on a straight line, if their apparent positions can be made to
coincide for observ^ation with one eye, under suitable choice of our
place of observation. ... (p. 3.)
It is not necessary here to investigate further the significance of the
expression '
coincidence in space '. This conception is sufficiently
obvious to ensure that diffa'ences of opinion are scarcely likely to arise as to
its applicability in practice, . . . (footnote b to p. 6.)
The purpose of mechanics is to describe how bodies change their
^ Sir James Jeans, Physics and Philosophy (Cambridge University
Press, 1943).
^ Albert Einstein, Relativity : the Special and the General Theory
(London, Methuen, 1920).
484 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [sEPT.
position in space with time. I should load my conscience with grave
sins against the sacred spirit of lucidity were I to formulate the aims of
mechanics in this way, without serious reflection and detailed explana-
tions. Let us proceed to disclose these sins.
It is not clear what is to be understood here by '
position '
and
'
space '. I stand at the window of a railway carriage which is travelling
uniformly, and drop a stone on the embankment, without throwing it.
Then, disregarding the influence of the air resistance, / see the stone
descend in a straight line. A pedestrian who observes the misdeed from
the footpath notices that the stone falls to earth in a parabolic curve.
(P- 9-)
It is clearly being assumed here that the objects and events of
the physical world are being observed directly. The Special and
General theories of Relativity are, in part, attempts to correlate
physical and perceptual space.
'
Einstein supposed there to be a four-dimensional space-time
continuum containing observers travelling through it. Each
observer is supposed to '
see '
successive cross-sections of the
continuum as his private three dimensions of perceptual space in
time. Observers in relative motion to each other '
see '
cross-
sections cut in different directions. Thus all places^ in perceptual
space are supposed to be coincident w^ith places in physical space-
time. Perceptual space, in which it is necessary to emphasize all
observations of science are made, is treated as though it were a
moving cross-section of physical space-time, much as a traveller in
a train sees a thin cross-section of the countryside through which
he is travelling. As Jeans - says, '. . . all observers stand on the same
footing, each dividing the space-time unity into his own perceptual
space and his own perceptual time.' These suppositions overlook
the fact that there is a great deal of signalling mechanism interposed
between objects in physical space-time and objects as observed in
perceptual space, which mechanism is quite opaque. To imagine
that perceptual space and time can be derived by cutting a simple
cross-section of physical space-time is to base our whole system on
the TNS fallacy. The objects which the scientist actually ob-
serves, and the space in which they are observed, are a product of
his own mind. It follows that these observed objects and events
may be coincident in space with cerebral events, but certainly
cannot be with the objects and events of the external physical
^ In order to avoid confusion I must define '
place '
as that space
occupied by any object of any kind that can actually be observed, or that
space occupied by any object whose activity can potentially determine
the behaviour of the former object. This avoids confusion with abstract
space or with the concept of space.
^ Sir James Jeans, Physics and Philosophy (Cambridge University Press,
1943) p. 69. -
195 1 The Extension of Mind 485
world, which only determine what is observed by means of the
signalling mechanism in between.
Thus we see that Einstein's statement that the nature of
coincidence in space is self-evident (see p. 483) is only apparently
self-evident, if we are basing our habits of thought on the TNS
fallacy. Coincidence in perceptual space is easy to understand
though subject to illusions, and we all know what is meant by
coincidence in physical space, though we have never actually
observed this. The problems are raised by considering what re-
lation perceptual space bears to physical space.
The phrase '
coincident in space '
has many pitfalls of which
scientists have in general been unaware. If the objects of the
scientist's study have their existence only in him, then so do those
axes, of which he can be aware and by which he describes their
behaviour, and so does the space system in which the objects of
perception are extended, and in which these observations are
executed. The realization of this fact requires a study of the
relationship between these observed events and the events in the
physical world. For this we need, if we are to account for the
facts of parapsychology, an extended theory of relativity, a theory
of the relativity of extension; in short, a theory of extension.
If we now return to the concepts of space in use in contemporary
physics, we find that the observer, by his motion through the
physical space-time continuum, is supposed to see this directly as
its three-dimensional perceptual cross-section. The abstract and
absolute spaces are supposed to be derived by reason's experience
of the perceptual cross-section of physical space-time.
These concepts do not give an adequate account of what actually
happens. Perceptual space cannot be regarded as a simple cross-
section of physical space-time, as this depends on the TNS fallacy.
Perceptual space is the only space of which we can have direct
experience. We live and move and have our being in it. We note
that objects as observed have three space dimensions and endure
in time. If we confuse this perceived world with the physical
world, we jump to thinking we are looking at the physical world
directly, which then is supposed to have the same three dimensions
of space and one of time. But zee are no longer allozved to do this by
neurophysiology. Physical space and physical objects are in fact
hypotheses, as we can never observe them directly. We have
hypothecated them out of our experience of perceived objects
extended in perceptual space presented to us by this part of the
mind. If we wish to correlate perceptual space with anything, we
can only attempt, as Sherrington^ does {if zee are to keep zvithin the
^ See the passage quoted from Sherrington on p. 482.
486 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [sept.
present boundaries of natural science), to correlate it with the spatial Ij
organization of the brain, a physical object in physical space.
It should be noted that there are two categories of events in
perceptual space : the events of the perceptual world over which
the Self has no control ; and the activities of what we call '
visual I
or mental imagery ', which is under the control of the Self. This
space is also three-dimensional in time, as we are capable of
'
sketching in our imaginations '
or '
visualizing '
lines, planes, or
cubes existing in time, but fail when we try to visualize a four-
dimensional solid, the tesseract, in time. The fact that we can
cope with cubes but not with tesseracts is not an indication that
the physical universe has three space dimensions, as is generally
supposed, but that our minds have. This internal space, which
geometers are always using in their practical problems, seems to be
coincident with the space in which the perceptual world is
presented. For we can sketch any manner of lines round the
objects of our perception, as the artist does when he sketches the ,
outlines of his picture on the canvas in his mind before he ever puts '
brush to canvas. This category of space has been rather neglected.
If the mind is supposed to be something unextended, how one is
supposed to be able to visualize a triangle, which cannot but be
extended in space, I do not know.
We may recast the space systems given above thus :
(i) Perceptual space, then, is primary, and is that in which
objects of our perception, including our own body-image and our
own visual imagery, are extended.
(ii) Physical space is that in which physical objects, including our
own physical bodies, are extended. These latter are for ever un-
observable, and strictly are hypotheses in Dingle's sense. ^ The
space ofphysics is the mathematical system of extensional relation-
ships of physical objects. It is a postulate in Dingle's sense. These
relationships have been discovered by observations made by the
Self on the extensional relations of perceptual objects extended in
perceptual space. For instance, all measurements of length in
physics depend ultimately and solely on the Self's direct power of
telling which of these two lines
is the longer. These lines, it cannot be emphasized too often, are,
as observed, extended in the perceptual space system of the mind.
Physics has been able to overlook these points and tacitly to assume
the TNS fallacy, because the observed relations reproduce their
determining relations in the physical space-time continuum with
^ See Herbert Dingle, Through Science to Philosophy (London, Oxford
University Press, 1937).
195 1] ^^'^ Extension of Mind 487
sufficient accuracy, by reason of the mechanical excellence of the
intermediate signalling mechanism.
(iii) Abstract space comprises also a series of postulates
derived by reason from our experience, not of (ii) but of (i).
Akhough it belongs to the class of concept and so is not extended in
the same way as (i), when the geometer does exercises in abstract
geometry^ in his '
mind ', he is using this internal space system
described above (part of (i)).
The location of perceptual space within the brain is also only an
assumption. The strength of this assumption arises from the
obsen/ed facts that when we do certain things to other peoples'
brains, and when certain things happen to our own brains, the state
of consciousness is altered, or even '
lost ' ;
also from a legacy of
the common-sense confusion placing our Selves as observers in the
physical head, and looking out at the physical world. If this latter
cannot be so, then at least all this activity, Self and perceptual
world, it is felt, must be located in the brain. This latter is a
dangerous prejudice of thought.
It is possible to account for these facts just as well by postulating
interference with transmission, instead of with actual function, or
interference with the activity of certain subsidiary electronic
mechanisms in the brain. There is no a priori reason why per-
ceptual space should be coincident with physical space. We have no
warrant for accepting this blindly. The problem must be settled by
experiment, once the alternative hypothesis has been worked out,
and critical experiments devised from it.
The alternative hypothesis is this :
The perceptual space-time system of the mind may be an
independent space system, i.e. it may be higher-dimensional
relative to physical space. We fill this space system with matter
and attribute this with organization, and then we can postulate
that the gap between the electro-chemical events in the brain and
the corresponding events in perceptual space-time, which we
observe, may be crossed by signalhng mechanism. It is already
clear that in our own individual world of perception we are ob-
serving the events presented by one end of a signalling mechanism
(the stroboscope shows us this : see p. 497), so the postulation of
some additional mechanism should not prove too difficult for the
understanding to accept. Events in our perceptual world follow
faithfully the events in the physical world, except when there is a
breakdown in the mechanism. The only question remaining is
whether this presentation is done by brain-mechanisms or by this,
as we may term it, psychical mechanism. When we look at some-
one else's living brain, we do not see this mechanism because it is
on the other side of a dimensional interface. We are thus in the
488 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [sept.
same position as Planemen^ would be when confronted with a
sohd object passing through their world. We must also postulate
that minute physical forces cross the interface in each direction, so
that events in one half of the system can affect events in the other
half.
This theory can be derived from the Thouless and Wiesner
'
Shin '
theory by postulating that Shin may be divided into Self
and perceptual world, the latter the product of a series of signalling
mechanisms extended in higher-dimensional space. and Wk
then become minute trans-dimensional physical forces. The
difficulties previously falsely transferred, under the TNS theory,
to the '
mind-brain '
relationship, may now be placed where they
belong, in the relation of the Self to the perceptual world. The
relation of the perceptual world to the physical world is effected
by mechanism. Just as events in the brain are merely determined
(on the afferent side) by events in the outside world by the
signalling mechanism in between, so may this independent and
organized system of mind-stuff (or psychical mechanism) merely
mirror the events in the brain, and so the events of the outside
world.
Thus I suggest a revision of our fundamental assumptions to :
(i) Perceptual space is not coincident with physical space.
(ii) We must use a system of seven axes to describe the total
physical universe.
The whole system may be described thus :
The physical universe, for one observer, consists of a seven-
dimensional space-time continuum, divided artificially by reason
of the nature of his observing mechanism into two subsections,
each a four-dimensional space-time continuum, the two manifold
systems sharing one common time dimension. (Perceptual space
and time may also be considered to form a continuum, since we
now have other means of distinguishing them from physical space-
time than by supposing that the passage of the observer through
this latter splits it up. The only means of distinguishing between
them before was that one system was supposed to form a con-
tinuum, and the other was not). We may term one the '
physical
'
space-time continuum, and the other the '
psychical '
space-time
continuum, though the difference between them is not one of kind
but of location.
These two space-time systems are filled with extended material
systems which interact across the interface between them (by
means of and Wk). Events in physical space-time merely
determine, by means of the signalling mechanism in between, the
^ See E. A. Abbott, Flatland, 3rd edition (Oxford, Blackwell, 1926).
195 1] ^^'^ Extension of Mind 489
events in perceptual space-time, which latter are the objects
of the scientist's direct study. The Self can also determine
events in physical space-time by means of other signalling
mechanism.
Thus the world we observe as scientists, and live in as humans
(existing only in ourselves), may be made not of brain stuff, as Dr
Hutton suggests, but of organized mind-stulT (or psychical
mechanism) extended in higher-dimensional space relative to the
physical world. Its events are only determined by events in the
physical world because of the extensive system for communication
existing between the two, comprised of, in one direction, sense
organ, sensory nerve, central nervous system, psi-gamma, and
psychical mechanism : in the other the psychical mechanism, psi-
kappa, central nervous system, motor nerve, and muscle, which
conduct the will of the Self to the physical world.
Hinton,^ in evolving his theory of the four-dimensional
stationary universe (further developed by Warner Allen-) tra-
versed by an observer to whom all four-dimensional objects
appear directly as their three-dimensional cross-section, and
changes of four-dimensional shapes as movements, was misled by
the TNS theory. In such an extended universe the body of the
observer cannot be the moving agent as it is extended as is the rest
of the material universe of which it is a mere '
eddy '. His theory
requires a psychic factor as observer, an extracorporeal agent, to
produce not only the moving agent but also the '
now '
of time
which cannot be produced in such a universe in any other way.
Everything in the universe merely extends from the beginning to
the end of time as frozen and complex four-dimensional shapes
including the body of the observer and his brain, through which
this extracorporeal observer must be supposed to be travelling.
This has seemed so unlike the world we know that his theory has
remained very much in the background. Dunne^ resurrected it,
and correlated it with the higher-space dimensions. He
confused these, however, both with an unnecessary serial
regress of time, and the serial regress involved in thinking
about the Self thinking about the Self, etc, which is merely
a manoeuvre of reason. The present errors of assumption at
the basis of knowledge may not be over time as Dunne imagined,
but over space.
A tentative return to it has been made in the current attempt to
account for the observed fact of precognition, which phenomenon
is much easier to account for by using such a model of the universe,
1 C. H. Hinton, A Neiv Era of Thought (London, 1888).
^ Warner Allen, The Uncurtained Throne (London, Faber, 195 1).
^
J. W. Dunne, The Serial Universe (London, Faber, 1934).
49° Jourtial of the Society for Psychical Research [sept.
as Dr Thouless^ points out. This is the theory of the '
specious
present which, however, falls between two stools as it seems to
imply a partial extension of the physical universe in this manner,
but just how far is not stated. Such an extension must be all or
nothing, and if it is to be all, an extraneous factor must be provided
to account for a single unique and travelling position, the '
now '
of time, dividing the '
Eternal Now '
into a past and a future.
We may, however, suppose that the Self is not travelling through
the brain, as the previous theories suggested, but that the psy-
chical mechanism, extended in one sub-section of the continuum,
merely exchanges information via the specific forces Wy and
with the brain. In this manner events in one subsection affect
events in the other. "We have then accounted, not only for the
'
now ' of time in Hinton's universe, the erstwhile inexphcable
change from electronic patterns in the brain to the phenomena of
experience, and all paranormal phenomena, but we have also been
able to attribute more dignity to the human Self than by supposing
it just to be an expression of the internal co-ordination of
a machine.
It should be noted, however, that the question whether the
material system in the '
physical '
subsection of the seven-
dimensional total universe is three-dimensional (orthodox theory),
or four-dimensional (Hinton's theory) is only a detail as far as this
theory is concerned. The psychical system could be imagined to
react equally well with either, although the latter is suggested by
the fact of precognition. I should therefore like to suggest that the
relevant mathematical study for psychical research might be the
study of the properties of hyperspace systems in relative movement
to each other.
(The universe, for one observer, may even be an eight-dimen-
sional continuum, since, if we postulate that the two sub-sections
have no common dimension, then we merely have to attribute
additional powers to psi.)
IPy and may then be regarded as minute physical forces, as
far as we can detect them directly, which penetrate the physical
world from outside it. They are normally focused upon the
brain, but have a '
penumbra ', which would be responsible for
ESP and PK. The interior of the psychical mechanism, which
presents that which we actually observe, reproduces faithfully the
events in the physical body and its environment. This reproduction
is so good that the TNS fallacy of common sense was indeed
^ R. H. Thouless, '
Experimental Precognition and its Implications,' J^.
Sac. Psychic. Res., vol. 35 (1950) pp. 201-210.
^ H. F. Saltmarsh, 'Report on Cases of Apparent Precognition,' Proc.
Soc. Psychic. Res., vol. 42 (1934) pp. 49-103.
195 1
] The Extension of Mind 491
unavoidable. The geographical arrangement and probably
relative size of objects or object-images (including the body and the
body-image as observed) in each world are similar to each other,
but each very different from that of the object-images in the brain,
which merely forms an integrative and informative link between
the two.
So if we consider the observations of two observers in relative
motion to each other, only the physical bodies of each observer
have this relative motion, and so cut different cross-sections of the
'
physical ' continuum, as described in the special and general
theories. These cross-sections do not form perceptual space and
time directly, but the process causes different information to be
signalled back to the observer, and so causes different patterns to
be thrown on to his visual screen, and other integrated changes to
be made in his perceptual world. Each observer, thus misled by
the nature of his observing mechanism, interprets this to mean that
he himself is in relative motion to the other observer, whereas in
fact it is not necessary to postulate that he moves at all. All that
may be moving is the focus of the psi-fields^fli^ Hinton's universe,
or with a three-dimensional physical universe travelling in time, as
well as his physical body. The only movements we have ever
observed are those occurring in our own perceptual fields, and
these may as well be determined by mechanism abstracting in-
formation from changing four-dimensional shapes (the equivalent
of movement in Hinton's universe) as from particles moving in
time.
It should be borne in mind that any such psychical mechanism
must be of a fabulous complexity, and in parts employing prin-
ciples of which we know nothing, as we do not meet them in the
'
physical ' world : although we can gain a fair idea, by observing
the stroboscopic patterns (see p. 497) and by analogy, of the
workings of the proximal end of the visual mechanism by com-
paring it with television. We may represent the brain by the
actors in the studio, and the physical external world by the script
which is determining their behaviour. The psychical mechanism
would then include the television cameras, transmitters, and
receivers, all for ever hidden behind the screen of the set, upon
which is continually and tirelessly presented the visual phenomena
for our daily attention.
The relation between the Self, the psyche, and the body would
seem to be analogous to that between the controller in the parent
aerodrome and a radio-controlled pilotless aircraft. Imagine this
latter to be fitted with television cameras and other instruments,
which constantly signal information about its own state and the
state of the environment to the control tower, inside which is
492 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [sept.
placed the controller. He observes all that is taking place on the
television screen, and attends to the other information signalled
back. Imagine further that he has been there for as long as he can
remember, and that he cannot see, and has never seen, anything
except the screen before him. If no one had ever told him about
his circumstances, would he not consider that he was actually in the
nose of the robot craft, and seeing personally the country over
which it was flying?
We come, then, to the following inescapable conclusions about
the mind.
(i) It has '
whereness '.
(ii) It has three dimensions of space and one of time.
(iii) Our concepts of physical space are derived from our ex-
perience of perceptual space and not vice versa.
(iv) There are only three possible topological relationships be-
tween perceptual space and physical space. The former may be
coincident {a) with the whole of the latter ;
[b) with part of the
latter ; or {c) with none of the latter. The first, the TNS fallacy,
is disallowed by neurophysiology.
(v) Perceptual space may be coincident with the space system
of the brain {b), or with higher-dimensional space {c). If the
latter, then the psychic factor of mind may be partly an extensive
and organized material entity located in this space. The former
hypothesis {b) is simpler, but perhaps it is too simple, as it does not
account for the '
something definite '
which happens when to a
'
certain brain-state a certain " sciousness " corresponds ', and it is
quite unable to account for the facts of parapsychology. The
latter hypothesis (c), although more complex, can account for
both. The facts of parapsychology become not incredible but
only to be expected.
4. CERTAIN MISCONCEPTIONS IN PHILOSOPHY
Since the perceptual world is so very clearly extended in space
and time, and since it is also clearly a product of the mind, how,
we may ask, do many philosophers believe either that the mind is
something unextended or that it is meaningless to discuss
whether the mind is or is not extended ?
We owe the first concept to Descartes, whom we find not only
to be well in the grip of the TNS theory but to have made an
additional mistake on top of this. Cartesian dualism presents the
familiar picture of the TNS theory of 'unextended thinking
spirits ', located in the physical head of the observer and regarding
the physical world '
through '
their sense organs. There is a
195 1
] '^^^ Extension of Mind 493
further confusion between those qualities of objects which can
actually be measured, the primary qualities, with the physical
world ; and the secondary qualities, those that cannot be measured,
are confused with the observing Self. These qualities, however,
are derived by the action of reason on the perceptual world, and
have nothing to do with the way this world is presented to us.
The fundamental fallacy of Cartesian dualism is thus derived
from the TNS theory. The '
mind '
is identified with the Self
and the perceptual world with the physical world. The unextended
mind regards and wonders at the external physical world arrayed in
space and time before it. This leads to the attempt to describe
'
mind '
by attributes more suitable to the Self, immaterial and
unextended. It leads also to the direct transference to the physical
world of the attributes extended and material, which properly
belong to the perceptual world, a part of mind. (Not that they do
not apply also to the physical world ;
they do, but only at second-
hand.) The gulf between the material and the immaterial seems,
however, unbridgeable.
If we try to repair this by postulating that the mind has a
'
psychic '
factor, we do not progress any further, if we seek to
differentiate between this psychic factor and the brain on the
grounds that the former is again immaterial and unextended, while
the latter is material and extended. The difficulty of all immaterial
psychic factor theories is that as soon as we postulate that an
immaterial factor can move an electron in the brain, as we must
to make any sense of our theory, it becomes material. The ghost
in the machine becomes, as Ryle points out, just a ghostly machine
itself. Besides, it is difficult to see what, in experience, this im-
material factor is supposed to represent. If the Self, how does
this insinuate itself into the machine? How does the machine
present it with the extended perceptual picture of the physical
world, and how does it surround this factor with the body-image ?
Further, how does the immaterial factor, tucked away somewhere
in the brain, move matter, as it must do in voluntary movement
and psycho-kinesis? If on the other hand it is supposed to
correspond with total mind. Self and perceptual world together,
how does this immaterial and so unorganized entity manufacture
the manifest organization of the perceptual world ?
If we try to repair this, as Gilbert Ryle does, by so defining mind
to mean a verbal cloak to cover such processes as thinking, per-
ceiving, feeling, etc. we have merely avoided the problems of
perceptual space. It is, of course, meaningless to discuss whether
the '
mind *
is extended or not if by mind we mean what Ryle
means by the word. There is no argument, however, about the
extension of the physical world, nor could there be about the
494 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [sept.
extension of the perceptual world. Any description of mind
which does not account adequately for this latter extension, other
than confusing it with the former, is not acceptable, once the
fallacy of the transparent nervous system has been exposed.
In The Concept of Mind Ryle points out correctly that Descartes'
separation of mind and brain on the attribute '
material ' leads only
to absurdity. He goes on to deal with the way that we form certain
concepts from our experience by the exercise of reason, but says
nothing about how this world before us is presented to us. He has
not noticed Descartes' basic error, of which those errors he has
noticed are but consequences. It is clear that his use of such
words as '
seeing '
and '
observing '
rests upon the common-
sense fallacy that when I say, '
I see a man it is as simple as that.
Here am I, and there in '
space '
and time is '
the man '. He
ignores the fact that what he calls the '
common world '
is presented
to each of us individually by our minds. Ryle is indeed misled
in the way that Hutton describes (see p. 480). His argu-
ments in The Concept of Mind are presented as though they were
only common sense. ^ They are, in so far as they are based on
the common-sense fallacy of the TNS. '
Common sense' has
proved in the past a most misleading guide. It was the common-
sense idea for a very long time that the earth was flat. The history
of science should make it sufficiently clear that these questions
cannot be settled by the unaided activity of the human reason, but
only by undertaking the relevant experiments, in this case those of
parapsychology. There is no point in repairing a set of logical
absurdities with a set of practical impossibilities.
Ryle's use of the word '
mind '
enables us to avoid the insistent
question of perceptual space. If it is meaningless to discuss
whether the mind is extended or not , then we can happily deny
the most cardinal fact of observation, that the mind has '
where-
ness '. Alternatively, we can account for the extension of the
perceptual world by confusing it with the physical world or we
may do the only proper thing, and that is to work out the con-
sequencies of locating the perceptual world in the brain, as long as
we remember that we are no longer allowed to slip back unnoticed
into the TNS fallacy as soon as any difficulties present themselves.
To illustrate the strains involved by postulating a coincidence of
perceptual space, and the objects contained in it, with the physical
space system of the brain and its electron patterns, it is only
necessary to point out certain consequences of this, singularly
neglected by protagonists of this theory.
^ For example, see The Concept of Mind, p. 249, where the main fault in
Ryle's argument is clearly demonstrated by his inference that objects, as
observed, (in this case his pen nib) are extended in physical space.
The Extension of Mind 495
If I choose to call my body-image in consciousness, as observed
by the Self '
six feet high ', as common sense does, then, as my
physical body is twelve times larger than the body-image in the
brain, I must realize that it is, if measured by my familiar
ideas of feet, some seventy-two feet high : that, if I regard my toe,
as felt when wriggled, as possessing six feet of '
thereness '
from
my Self, then my physical toe possesses seventy-two feet of this
'
thereness '
; and that, if I extend my arm sideways, and in the
space system in which I feel it to be '
that far away '
I extend a
line for about an equal distance by mental imagery, I shall then
reach the bone of my physical skull. It will be clear that these
considerations will do violence to our common-sense views of the
world, still based obstinately on the TN S theory. To think of the
familiar world of experience, as observed, as locked up inside one's
skull makes the physical world into a monstrously large place,
relative to our common-sense ideas of it. This is clearly put by
E. A. Burtt in The Metaphysical Foundations of Modern Physical
Science}
As Hutton continues in his article :
One of the most important features of these transient cortical patterns
is that many of them show extraordinary similarities in their temporo-
spatial relationships to the patterns from which and to which their
movement flows, and, in fact, they appear to reproduce these on a
smaller scale, the ratios remaining the same, though the quantities vary,
(p. 162. My itahcs.)
Since we fall so easily into the TN S fallacy, it might have seemed
suspicious that the body-image in consciousness is so like the
physical body, and so unlike what seems to be the body-image in
the brain. It should be noted in the above passage that the
temporo-spatial relationships that we observe are those that the
Self can determine in the perceptual world, and it is only an
assumption that Hutton has made that these may be identified with
the patterns in the cerebral cortex. He does not go on to draw the
necessary conclusions from the words '
on a smaller scale '.
And having done all this, we find ourselves no nearer to account-
ing for the simple facts of parapsychology than we were to start
with. Ryle rejects the erroneous two-world theory of Descartes,
but the facts require neither this nor his untenable substitute, but
an adequate two-world theory.
To supply this I suggest that the differentiation of psyche from
brain should be made on the basis of different geographical location.
Descartes' description of the psyche seems to have sprung from a
hasty choice of qualities, opposite to those most clearly exhibited
^ London, Routledge & Kegan Paul, 2nd ed. 1932, pp. 314-16.
496 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [sEPT.
by the brain, i.e. inmiaterial, imextended, and unorganized. But if
we locate the psyche in higher-dimensional space, all the diffi-
culties of traditional dualism, skilfully exposed by Ryle, evaporate.
Both these difficulties, and Ryle's attempts at repair, may be seen
to be based on a confusion in our ideas of space, and over our use
of the words '
mind '
and '
Self '. We also avoid the difficulties of
monism, which Ryle so skilfully passes over that we are almost
persuaded that they do not exist.
Psyches may be real machines. They have only appeared
spectral owing to their confusing geography. The experimenter
cannot enter mind's private world, not because it does not exist,
but because of the barrier presented by a dimensional interface.
He may nevertheless confirm its existence by the indirect but
relevant experiments of parapsychology. We thus avoid the
insoluble conflict between the facts of parapsychology and Ryle's
unanswerable criticisms of Cartesian dualism. We also avoid
Ryle's impossible position when he seeks to deny any sort of
private world to mind. This theory also relieves much of the
burden on neurophysiologists, since the brain would seem to be a
much simpler organ than it has hitherto been supposed. Many
functions attributed to it may now be attributed to the geo-
graphically independent psyche and Self.
5. THE FUNCTIONS OF THE BRAIN
We may suppose that the brain has the following functions :
(i) To collect, integrate, and present information about the out-
side world, and the state of the physical body, for to pick up and
transfer to the psychical mechanisms, which in turn present this
to the Self in its familiar field of awareness.
(ii) To translate the Self's instructions (conveyed by which
interferes with the statistical behaviour of electrons in the cortex,
just as it can interfere with the statistical behaviour of dice) into
the electronic messages for the muscles.
(iii) To supply a battery of servo-mechanisms designed to aid
voluntary movement thus conveyed.
(iv) To learn unconscious skills and to store them as one form of
memory.
(v) To supply various protective reflex mechanisms, for instance
the eye-blink.
(vi) To act as a thought screen and perhaps a screen for visual
imagery, and to supply a series of thinking mechanisms. It may
also store other types of memory. Functions (iii) to (vi) correspond
to Aldous Huxley's '
physiological intelligence '.
195 1] ' The Extension of Mind 497
It is of the first importance for all the enthusiastic exponents of
the fashionable analogy between brains and computing machines
to realize that the brain only functions in part along these lines.
It has two input systems and two output systems. It is but a station
on the way to the soul.
We do not need any longer to ask how the machine can ap-
preciate beauty, write a symphony, and undergo a mystical ex-
perience. The soul does these things ; the brain is merely part of
the control panel for the observing and executive instrument,
which is the body. The universe may be both larger and more
wonderful than we have supposed.
6. THE GENESIS OF PERCEPTUAL SPACE
Let us see how Sherrington,^ having accepted that the mind is in
extended space, goes on to deal with the problem. '
The vexed
question,' he says, '
of the mode of origin or genesis of sensual
space we have not to enter on. We accept the brute fact that our
minds' perception through the senses immerses us in space.' (pp.
325-6. My italics.) Thus we see that this fundamental question
on which much else depends, the genesis of sensual (or perceptual)^
space, is mentioned only to be shelved, and, of course, the phrase
'
through the senses '
enables us to slip back almost unnoticed
into the TNS fallacy of common sense. Indeed the manoeuvre is
unavoidable, since it is no use trying to persuade ourselves or
other people that the world, as we individually live in it, is not
extended in space and time.
We now know a little more about the mode of origin of per-
ceptual space. The following observations prove our working
hypothesis (see p. 481) that the visual part at least of the perceptual
world in consciousness is built up by a signalling mechanism. The
problem of visual space is complicated by the fact that it is of dual
origin. Observations made using the stroboscope have shown
that the visual picture in consciousness is built up along lines very
similar to three-dimensional television in colour. The stroboscope
is an electronic lamp which flashes at regular intervals. The
duration of the flash is extremly short, some one millionth of a
second. Now if we look at such a lamp flashing at a frequency of
between 4 to 20 times a second, we observe that a large number of
complex zig-zag lines and mosaics appear in the perceptual field
before us vibrating with incessant movement, as it were upon a
^ Man on His Nature.
^ Perceptual space includes sensual space and the space of mental
imagery.
498 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [sEPT.
screen situated, it seems, a few inches in front of our observing
selves. These Hnes are of various colours and execute their move-
ments against a pale, almost colourless, background. As Grey
Walter^ points out, this is very similar to the effect produced on the
screen of a television set if the studio is illuminated by a strobo-
scopic lamp, due to the basic nature of the television process.
Now in the following discussion I shall use the word '
screen
'
to indicate the pale background on which these patterns are
executed. I do not feel that it brings to mind any illegitimate
associations that would not be aroused were you actually to observe
the phenomenon, as anyone has witnessed this will agree. So we
come to realize that our familiar visual picture of the world is
continually being built up before us on this '
screen '
by thousands
of little scanning beams travelling to and fro across it very rapidly
just as the three-dimensional television picture is built up.
If you examine this black cross on a white field
I
you will realize that it is continually being built up in this manner.
A little beam starts here
and throws a patch of white on to the '
screen '
and scans
rapidly across until it gets here
when it changes momentarily to black and produces one segment
of the cross and then turning white again speeds off producing the
whiteness of the paper. While it is producing its black speck
another scanning beam is producing another black speck directly
under it, thus j
and so on. Thousands of these little coloured beams, whose
'
grain '
we never notice since their resolving power seems to be
greater than the limiting resolving power of the retina, continually
build up our everyday picture of the world in this manner. We
can only demonstrate the grain by cutting down the time it has to
^ '
Features in the Electro-physiology of Mental Mechanisms '
in D.
Richter (ed.), Perspectives in Neuropsychiatry (London, H. K. Lewis,
1950).
1951] The Extension of Mind 499
work in to almost nothing. Thus our three-dimensional stereo-
scopically produced visual space is mostly as illusory as the ap-
parent space in which the television actors on the two-dimensional
screen move about : we do not look for these inside the television
set. So in normal stereoscopic vision two complex and ever-
changing patterns are thrown on to this '
screen ', and the illusion
is produced, which depends entirely on the properties inherent in
the screen^ itself and on the capabilities of the observiiig self, since all
other mechanisms in between the screen and the outside world
merely determine the detailed nature of the patterns to be pro-
jected on to the screen, and execute this projection. (The ap-
parent space produced by the stereoscope has a similar origin, as
the stereoscope merely converts out of two flat pictures conditions
from which this process can start.) The name '
optical illusion
'
is a misnomer again derived from the TN S theory. It is the Self
that is deluded, as the visual mechanisms present the information
correctly. Nevertheless, this illusory space is built up on a
basis of real space. The screen itself is two-dimensional ;
we can describe the position of any point on it in terms of two
co-ordinates, but our observing Selves are clearly set back
from it : it is '
there '
while Self, as always, is '
here '. We
can sketch a pyramid in our mental imagery using any four
points on the patterns not in a straight line as base and the
Self as apex. To describe the whole process three co-ordinates
are needed. This space has evidently a dissimilar origin from
the other.
The screen forms the fundamental background of visual per-
ception. In the current theory held by some workers in neuro-
physiology, this presentation is done by a series of electrical switch-
scanning mechanisms present in the brain, but under this theory
no clear exposition is given as to what is looking at these patterns,
or how these space-time relationships of the patterns, amongst
themselves and to the observer, may be fitted into the space-time
system of the brain. However, all that we can be certain of, from
direct observation, is that an exceedingly complex mechanism
must be directly responsible for this picture. I have suggested
that there is no necessity to regard this as being in the brain, but
that this presentation may be done by the independent psychical
mechanism whose behaviour only is determined by events in the
brain. In this way we can account for the observed spatial rela-
tionships in a less strained way (see p. 495), and leave room for the
observer. Furthermore, the facts of parapsychology can be
explained.
^ I postulate that this screen is a material screen composed of mind-
stuff.
500 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [sEPT.
7. THE NATURE OF THE PSYCHE
When we come to consider the possible nature of the psyche,
we find only two theories in common use.
(i) That the psyche is merely a noun descriptive of certain com-
plex and determining electronic processes in the brain. It cannot
then be capable of functioning or existing in any way as an inde-
pendent agent, since it is held to be merely an expression of the
internal co-ordination of a machine. We can say all that we wish
to say without using the word at all.
(ii) That the psyche is a potentially independent agent and is in
control of the brain. To distinguish it from the brain it is supposed
to be unextended and immaterial. No account has ever been given
of how this control is exercised, nor how this concept may be fitted
into the world as I know it or into the manner of my knowing it.
As this theory has been in the field for as long as history has been
recorded, there does not seem to be much hope that this integration
will ever be made. There does not seem to be any credible bridge
between the material and the immaterial as presented by this
theory. It is impossible to find a functional relationship between
them, between the '
energy-concept ' and '
naked mind ' of
Sherrington, since, as products of reason, there is no relationship
between them except what reason itself has given them in
sundering them apart : a relationship of antithesis outside which
reason cannot get.
The alternative theory I am presenting here suggests that there
has indeed been a grave category-mistake in this attempt to
distinguish between the physical and psychical worlds on account
of the attributes '
material '
and '
immaterial '. This division
precludes the erection of any bridge between the two worlds
because by definition and on logical grounds the immaterial can
play no part in the material world. If, however, the division is
made on account of geographical location, we may suppose that the
psyche is both material and extended (in higher-dimensional
space). We can then build our bridge and account for the nature
of the perceptual world in a manner which is credible, which
explains the erstwhile discordant facts of parapsychology, and
which suggests a method by which the '
mind '
may convert
electronic patterns in the brain into the familiar phenomena of
mental experience. Thus we may suppose that we cannot see
someone else's psyche, not because it is ghostly and immaterially
invisible, but because it is on the other side of the most impene-
trable of all barriers, a dimensional interface.
The nature of the Self remains inexplicable. We may, if we
like, reserve the attributes '
apparently unextended '
and '
ap-
1951] The Extension of Mind 501
parently immaterial ' for the Self, though of course it may consist
of a complex and organized system too.
CONCLUSION
I have expressed these ideas in the form of four postulates
which I have called the Theory of Extension.
(i) To give a consistent and unitary account of phenomena it is
necessary to use a framework of '
n '
space dimensions (n>3).
(ii) The three dimensions comprising the manifold of mental
position (perceptual space) are at right-angles to the four dimen-
sions of physical space-time. The two manifold systems may
share one common time dimension. The universe is thus a seven-
dimensional continuum, which we divide artificially into two sub-
sections by reason of the nature of our observing mechanisms, and
from which we separate time from space by our motion through
it.
(iii) The psyche may consist of an organized material entity
located in higher-dimensional space. This may abstract informa-
tion from the brain, and transform it into the familiar phenomena
of experience which it presents to the Self. On the motor aspect
the Self, through another part of this mechanism and the brain,
may order its thoughts and actions.
(iv) The axes of the psychical world (a hitherto unrecognized
part of the total physical universe) may be called OX', OY', OZ',
and OT. The axes of the physical world are OX, OY, OZ, and
OT. (The misconception, if such, would not have been apparent
before since the number of axes, the mathematically important
factor, for the '
physical '
world is the same.)
This theory, from the point of view of experimental para-
psychology, suggests that ESP and PK are incidental side-
effects of the normal psyche-brain relationship, as Thouless and
Wiesner put forward in their Shin Theory. It would further
explain :
(a) The apparent independence of ESP of spatial, and to some
extent temporal, separation of percipient and target or agent,
since we may imagine that Wy, coming from higher-dimensional
space, may traverse our entire universe as quickly as we can push a
pencil through a piece of paper. Its penumbra, extending so
widely through space, could also be imagined to extend a little
way, or even long distances, into the future.
(b) The deleterious effect of trying too hard on scoring rates in
ESP tests, since this might be expected to increase the focus of Wy
on to the brain and so lessen the penumbra effect subserving ESP.
502 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [sept.
(c) It also provides the organization seemingly required by the
activity of the '
censor '
as described by Soal.^
If mind is regarded as something unextended and immaterial,
it is very difficult to see how it could do the work necessary to turn
a die, which was going to fall with one face up, so that another
does, as PK shows it must do. Likewise, in clairvoyance experi-
ments it is difficult to see how it could extract information from the
physical cards. One of the most striking things about the pheno-
mena of parapsychology has been the lack of any apparent
organization to undertake these formidable tasks. Such apparent
'
action at a distance '
as parapsychology discloses is anathema to
science. The gap must be closed. This theory suggests where
this organization may be found, once we realize that things may be
invisible, not because they are immaterial, but because they may
be on the other side of a dimensional interface. The theory also
supplies the necessary forces to close the gap, and instruments of
sufficient sensitivity should be capable of detecting them. It can
also account for certain discrepancies in neurophysiology and has
links with the experiments of Gestalt psychology. It suggests a
series of experimental investigations, not only for parapsychology
but also for physics.
ESP EXPERIMENTS
WITH AN INFANT AS SUBJECT
Reported by G. W. Fisk
The following are translated extracts from a letter from Docteur
Paul Vasse of the Societe Metaphysique Picarde, 136 Boulevard
Chateaudun, Amiens, France, dated 25 February 1951 addressed
to Dr D. J. West.
I should like to make an E S P experiment with you across the Channel.
Mme Vasse has experimented with our very young daughter (Foyette
—
14 months) with very curious and successful results. This is what has
been done. The DT technique has been used. The pack of twenty-
five ESP cards is shufHed without Mme Vasse seeing the cards. The
baby then reads the cards, but as she cannot speak she makes her
'
divination '
by gesture. The 5 symbols are put into 5 envelopes
(without their being seen). The envelopes are marked with the 5
letters, A, E, I, O, U. The little child then picks up one envelope and
Mme Vasse records the letter it bears. When the run is completed the
*
' Some Aspects of Extrasensory Perception,' Proc. Sac. Psychic. Res.,
vol. 49 (195 1) PP- 142-7-
igji] ESP Experiments with an Infant 503
symbol corresponding to the letter is noted and the score calculated.
After each run the five symbols are withdrawn from the envelopes,
shuffled, and again placed in the envelopes in any chance order—always
without Mme Vasse seeing them. This amuses the child immensely,
but she is soon bored and a complete run cannot be made at one sitting.
It is continued later when convenient.
Dr Vasse continues :
Evidently here is a beautiful example of '
polypsychisme '
between
mother and infant. For although the mother has had successful results
in PK experiments with plants and dice her successes with cards have
been almost nil.
Dr Vasse gave the following totals of hits for each of ten runs
made :
7, II, 8, 10, 15, 8, 12, II, 13, 15
Total no. of hits in 250 trials = 110
Chance expectation = 50 Deviation =+ 60
The C.R. is thus approximately 9-5 !
With so fantastic a resuk it seemed well worth w^hile to accept
Dr Vasse's offer and to arrange a cross-channel test. Accordingly
dates were fixed and I exposed on my desk in Ditton Hill a pack of
cards each week. As many '
K-objects '
or poi7its d'appui were
arranged as possible, such as exchange of photographs, etc. Un-
fortunately there were only chance resuhs, as the following
summary of scores shows. As an alternative test I also sent sealed
packs of cards to Mme Vasse to see if any better scores would
result, but again there was no success. It will be noted, however,
that while Poyette only scored negatively in the cross-channel tests
she scored positively when the packs were actually in the room
with her ; but the deviations from chance are too small in both
cases to be more than very slightly suggestive.
SUMMARY OF SCORES
Series A
A pack of ESP cards exposed weekly in G.W.F.'s study, Ditton Hill, Surrey.
Packs of 25 cards in random order—copies of random order posted weekly to
Dr West.
March 1951 Run i Hits 5
2 5
3 4
4 6 20
April-May 5 o
6 4
. 7 3
8 4
31
Deviation for 200 trials = - 9
504 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [sept, j
Series B
Sealed packs of 25 cards posted to Amiens. Guessed DT and returned un-
opened to G.W.F.
April 195 1 Run i Hits 9
2 7
3 4
4 6 26
May S 8
6 5
V 5
8 4 22
48
Deviation for 200 trials = + 8
REVIEWS
Proceedings of the Scientific and Technical Congress of
Radionics and Radiesthesia. Published by the Com-
mittee of the Congress, 8 Ashburn Gardens, London,
S.W. 7 [1951]. 202 pp.
These Proceedings contain the papers presented at the first
British Congress on Radionics and Radiesthesia, held in 1950, and
organized by a Committee representing the British Society of
Dowsers, the Radionic Association, and the Psychosomatic Re-
search Association. Some discussion of the papers is also printed.
A. T. Westlake in a paper on Vis Medicatrix Naturae identifies
this concept with the odic force of Reichenbach and the orgone
energy of Reich, and with various other supposed forces and
fluids of debatable reality.
Several papers deal from an experimental viewpoint with
postulated radiations and force fields of different kinds. E. A.
Maury and M. Maury mention some experiments on the human
electromagnetic field. They dispense with a detailed description
of their apparatus in order not to complicate the subject. M.
Ash describes the detection of radiation from the body by feeling
it with his hand. He finds a stimulus to occur at critical distances
from the body, and also describes some instrumental methods of
detection. Some general remarks on human radiations are con-
tributed by W. E. Arnould-Taylor. Conducted radionic emission
from drugs and bloods is considered by L. E. Eeman.
The question of harmful rays from the earth is discussed in a
paper by H. Larvaron. J. C. Maby, however, adds that this
paper proves nothing. L. P. Corte examines the effect of modula-
195 1 ] Reviews 5°5
tion on postulated radiations from body cells and other sources.
G. de la Warr considers the manifestation of what he calls '
Funda-
mental Energy '
and proceeds to enunciate some new laws of
physics relating to this energy. These laws, however, are not
clearly formulated and it would seem better to rank them as
speculations.
A theoretical paper by A. J. K. Glazewski attempts to relate
some of the concepts of radiesthesia to modern theoretical
physics. His ideas are presented in a somewhat obscure way and
will be largely incomprehensible to the general reader. They
appear too unsound to attract the specialist reader. Some further
remarks on theoretical physics are contributed by R. C. Thornton.
A good number of claims of interest in psychical research are
advanced by J. C. Maby. He asserts that all matter radiates
weakly with frequencies specific to different materials, and notably
determined by atomic and molecular weight. Moving water is
supposed to produce an additional and stronger flow field. The
human nerve-muscle system reacts to both these stimuli. Maby
states that these facts can be witnessed by any patient and unpre-
judiced observer. However, a great many physical factors are
said to interfere with observations on these radiations. Conditions
favourable for dowsing experiments are stated to favour telepathy
and clairvoyance experiments to such an extent that an almost
entirely correct score may be obtained with good subjects over
short time periods. Maby also claims that an imaginative person
can project a psycho-radiant energy and influence suitable
physical instruments. Indeed, these radiations from bystanders
interfere with dowsers.
The Proceedings are terminated by a very clear summary of the
present position by J. C. Maby. Radiesthesia and Radionics now
occupy an intermediate position between science and psychical
research. It is apparent from these Proceedings that at present
their experimental and theoretical basis is slender. However, as
Maby observes, orthodox science can be influenced by an internal
ferment arising from the minds of scientists who have been pre-
sented with clear and repeatable evidence.
A. J. B. Robertson
Solid Proofs of Survival. By Einer Nielsen. London,
Spiritualist Press, 1950. 193 pp. 5 plates. los. 6d.
It is always interesting for the psychical researcher to read books
by mediums since it affords a glimpse into the minds of the writers.
Such mediums as G. A. Redman, D. D. Home, and Mrs Leonard
have all contributed something in this direction, and in the present
5o6 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [sept. {
volume the Danish medium, Einer Nielsen, has added an item to
the hst. !
Mr Nielsen is predominantly a medium for materialization, his
productions sometimes resembling those of Eva C. and at others
those of Linda Gazerra or Mrs Henderson. In his book he tells
the story of his life and work, and it is full of the handsome
tributes paid to him by his admirers. Moreover, he prints his ov^n
version of the disastrous series of sittings in Oslo in 1922, the
awful days of which he thinks he was only able to endure through Ij
the kindness of Miss Ramsden.
Although the Oslo sittings are discussed by Mr Nielsen with his
own explanations of the suspicious circumstances reported, he '
does not seem to have dealt even in outline with the Carstensen i
story and how the medium rebutted it.^ This is unfortunate,
|
since it would have been interesting to see Mr Nielsen's attitude I
and an account of the legal case connected with it. Apart from I
these and a fev/ other omissions, the book appears to provide a I
concise story of the growth and development of the author's
mediumship. Unfortunately, the evidence he adduces is hardly
sufficient to persuade even the moderately critical reader that he '
possesses any supernormal powers, an opinion to which I myself
inclined after seeing something of his work in 1924. The con-
ditions under which the sittings are conducted appears to have
been lax, the control inadequate, and the lighting poor. Thus,
although this book purports to be solid proofs of survival, it can
scarcely be said to be proof of anything, unless some unkind
reader insists that it is yet another proof of human credulity in the 1
seance room.
E. J. Dingwall
J
1
Journal of Parapsychology, Vol. 15, No. i, March 195 1.
'
Durham, N.C., Duke University Press. ^1.50.
j
The main article in the present Journal is Professor Rhine's j
Myers Memorial Lecture on Telepathy and Hurtian Personality. \
This will be known already to members of the Society for Psychical t
Research. j
The remainder of the contributions are three minor articles on a t
new method of P K experimenting in which the aim is to get the j
dice or other objects to fall in a given place and not with a given
face uppermost. W. E. Cox was the originator of this method of
experimenting, and he reports significant success. His method
was, however, to throw the dice by hand from a cup on to a
* See J. Carstensen, Spiritismens Princip og Fejlgreb (Copenhagen, 1931).
195 1] Revietcs 507
surface marked out in squares, and I do not think it is possible to
agree with the experimenter's opinion that resuhs could not have
been due to skilled throwing. The other two sets of experiments
(those by H. Forwald reported by Rhine and by G. Cormack
reported by Pratt) are not open to this criticism since in both cases
the dice were released mechanically. In both cases the results are
highly significant. It is clear, therefore, that this is a practicable
alternative to the usual method of PK experimenting. Pro-
fessor Rhine considers that it has the advantage of making it
possible to decide between alternative theories of how PK works.
R. H. Thouless
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND PHILOSOPHY
The following passage is taken from '
The Philosophy of 195 1 ',
an article in a special section, '
The Mind of 195 1 ', of The Thnes
Literary Supplemejit of 24 August. It is here reproduced by kind
permission of the Editor.
'
While British philosophers have shown themselves compara-
tively uninterested in the discussion of Existentialism, which
occupy the thought of so many of their Continental contempor-
aries, an important development of recent years has been an in-
creasing concern with the problems raised by psychical research.
Under one or other of its many modern names, psi phenomena,
paranormal phenomena, extra-sensory perception, what used to
be called psychical research has increasingly occupied the attention
of philosophers, and Professors Broad and Price in particular have
urged that, if these phenomena are to be taken seriously—and in
view of the weight of contemporary evidence, not so to take them
argues a degree of credulity which an increasing number of
scientists and philosophers seem unable to achieve—their implica-
tions demand a re-orientation of much of our thinking. Mind and
its powers, the nature of time and the status of the future, the
biased and, it may be, limiting characteristics of the human in-
tellect, the relation of the unconscious to consciousness—these are
instances of the many and various topics on which totally fresh
thinking would seem to be required in the light of the disturbing
implications of some of the evidence.'
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
JOURNAL
of the
Society for Psychical Research
Volume XXXVI No. 667 November-December 195 i
A NOTE ON PRECOGNITION
By C. T. K. Chari
In the Proceedings of the S.P.R. for July 1950^ and in the issue of
Mind for the same month,^ Mr C. W. K. Mundle raised the ques-
tion whether ostensible precognition can be accounted for by some
conceivable combination of PK and non-precognitive ESP.
Psychical researchers must be aware that Dr Tanagra once put
forward the suggestion that a person who makes a 'supernormal
prediction' actually brings about its fulfilment by exercising in
some cases his telekinetic powers.^ 'L'absence de I'agent', he
declared, 'ne parait pas toujours influencer les manifestations . . .
J'ai ete ainsi persuade que le dynamisme producteur du thory-
bisme et des phenomenes telekinetiques pent aussi a distance,
comme d'ailleurs des personnes absentes'.* Tanagra's hypothesis,
like the PK hypothesis, requires some very ad hoc extensions
before it can cover all the recorded cases of spontaneous pre-
cognition. While I agree with Mr Mundle that every attempt
should be made to ascertain whether we have reached technically
rigorous limits in the experimental isolation of precognition, I am
afraid that most definitions of precognition are petitiones principii.
There are two parts of Mr Mundle's definition likely to invite
misconceptions.
Mr Mundle does not pretend to offer us any theory of the modus
operandi of precognition ;
yet his phraseology suggests that ' later
events' can exert a 'direct causal influence' (italics mine) on 'earlier
human events'. Now it seems pretty certain to me that any attempt
to 'understand' or 'explain' precognition will involve the most
extreme metaphysical reconstruction of our notions of 'causality'
and the characteristics of 'before-after' and 'past-present-future'
iVol. XLIX, Part 178. ^ Vol. LIX, No. 235.
' See H. Driesch, Psychical Research (Bell, 1933), p. 85.
* Transactions of the Fourth International Congress for Psychical
Research (S.P.R., 1930), pp. 242-3. Richet in his L'Avenir et la Pr€-
A 509
5IO Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [nov.
which we associate with time. It is important that no relevant
metaphysical possibility should be excluded by the psychical
researcher. Whether or no Mr Mundle intends it, his terminology
may persuade us that the most hopeful approach to the problem
of precognition lies in sticking to a time the instants of which are
all ordered by 'linear betweenness', and that the only departure
from common-sense notions we have to make lies in recognizing
an unfamiliar 'later-to-earlier' direction in which 'causality' can
operate. I venture to suggest that in working out a theory of pre-
cognition, the conception of a time the instants of which are all
linearly ordered may have to be abandoned.^ The door should be
kept open to all possibilities, no matter how weird or fantastic.
About the only prudent course for the experimental psychical
researcher is to adopt definitions of the kind proposed recently by
Mr George E. Hughes in a critical notice^ of Rosalind Heywood's
Telepathy and Allied Phenomena. The statistical type of experi-
ment in psychical research is designed to exclude the null hypo-
thesis that no significant differences can be detected between our
two samples, i.e. that the samples could have been randomly
drawn from the same population and differ only by accidents of
sampling. Precognition in the experimental situation, therefore,
should be defined in terms of the 'greater-than-chance coinci-
dences' between the pronouncements or actions of a percipient and
certain facts 'normally inaccessible' to him at the moment the
pronouncements are made or the actions executed. We can
adopt operational definitions of 'normal access' to distinguish
'autoscopic' precognition (i.e. foreknowledge of events in one's
monition remarks that the possible telekinetic stopping of a roulette ball
at a number which has been previously announced should be taken into
consideration in discussing certain cases of precognition. He refers to an
interesting experiment described by Dr Ochorowicz in the Annates des
Sciences Psychiques, 1909-10. In the cases reported by Professor G.
Hulin of Ghent {Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XI, Part 29, pp. 545-7), the per-
cipients drew numbers from an urn. It may be argued that, assuming
we have something more than 'chance coincidences', non-precognitive
ESP without PK would suffice as an explanation of the choice of a
previously announced number. But how could the percipient be sure
that the number would not be drawn by somebody else after he had made
the ostensible prediction? The interval between the prediction and its
fulfilment was nearly two months—the report says 'pres de deux mois a
I'avance'—in the case of Charles-Louis Casset. In principle at least, a
PK influence on others exercised at a distance would seem to be neces-
sary. It may be said that the cases are too few and too inadequately
reported to aflFord a basis for theoretical discussions. But the possible
extensions of the PK hypothesis must be visualized by psychical re-
searchers.
^ See my note in Mind, Vol. LVIII, No. 230 (April 1949), pp. 218-21.
^ Mind, Vol. LVIII, No. 229 (January 1949), pp. 109-10.
telef
ine;
oftl
(fial
cogr
tlie
excl
sucl
lei
Bra;
Pro,
moi
case
tov
live
rare
imf
1951] ' A Note on Precognition 51
1
own life, including here all those things about which one receives
verbal reports of any sort) from 'non-autoscopic' precognition, and
telepathic from clairvoyant precognition. The considerations will
apply mutatis mutandis to simultaneous and post-cognitive tele-
pathy and clairvoyance.
Mr Mundle complains that definitions in terms of 'extra-chance
hits' alone will not enable us to distinguish precognition from P K
in experimental situations. Surely his own admirable treatment
of the data suggests a way out of the difficulty. There may be
qualitative and quantitative peculiarities associated with pre-
cognitive 'hits' and 'misses' that are absent in the class of cases in
which P K presumably operates. A significant feature of Caring-
ton's experiments, as Mr Mundle remarks, was the temporal
clustering of the 'extra-chance hits' more or less symmetrically
around the occasions on which certain drawings were displayed.
While Professor Bartlett has raised some technical questions about
the evaluation of the 'dispersed hits' in Dr Soal's experiments,
there is a suggestion that, in experimental situations designed to
test ESP, 'fore-hits' and 'back-hits' occur together in ways that do
not seem to be characteristic of the 'PK effect'.
Mr Mundle's definition of precognition leaves out the element
of 'knowing' or 'believing'. Such a feature must, of course, be
excluded when we are trying to define precognition as behaviour-
istically as possible in experimental situations. But is it altogether
unrepresentative of cases of spontaneous precognition, as Mr
Mundle seems to imply? The problem was discussed by Pro-
fessors Broad and Price at the Joint Session of the Mind Associa-
tion and Aristotelian Society in 1937.^ Professor Broad declared
that, in most spontaneous cases, precognition was known to be
such only in the light of the later verification. Although it may
be bumptious to differ from an authority, I think that Professor
Broad's remark would not apply to many cases published in the
Proceedings of the S.P.R. A precognition may be a vague pre-
monition or presentiment or a quite specific prediction. ^ The
cases of ostensible premonition in which the percipient took steps
to ward off an impending danger most definitely imply the cogni-
tive attitudes of 'expectation' and 'belief '.^ We have also those
rare instances in which a year, a month, and a day were indelibly
impressed on a dreamer who woke up with the inexplicable con-
* Aristotelian Society, Supplementary Volume XVI, pp. 216-17, 232-3.
^Mrs Sidgwick, Proc. S.P.R. , Vol. V, Part 13 (December 1888),
pp. 291-2, 320-1, 326-9, 330-2 ; F. W. H. Myers, Proc. S.P.R., Vol.
XI, Part 29 (December 1895), the case of Lady Q., pp. 577-80.
' Dame Edith Lyttelton, Our Superconscious Mind (Philip Allan, 193 1),
pp. 113-14, 167-70 ; Some Cases of Prediction (Bell, 1937), pp. 66-8.
512 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [nov,
viction that a great calamity would engulf him on that date.^ In |
the extensive, if not always strictly evidential, literature on the i
subject, we find it stated that 'mind-pictures' have sometimes |
empirical features corresponding to the temporal marks 'past' and
'future'. V. N. Turvey noticed that the 'mind-pictures' which i
came to him were on a continuously moving 'film' or 'ribbon' of i
pale heliotrope colour; some of the 'pictures', which appeared to ^
-
be engraved on the 'film' itself, were found to refer to the 'past';
others, which were like 'pale blue photographs' stuck on the
'film', were found to refer to the 'future'. ^ One of Dr Osty's
'metagnomes' located the 'pictures' in a hallucinatory space the |
median line of which divided the 'past' from the 'future'.^ Even
when the 'pre-presentative image' is not dated, it may have a subtle
flavour or feeling-tone which leads the subject to say, 'Some day
I know that I shall see that scene in real life'.* An inferential
cognition supplementing and interpreting a de facto precognition
may not be the whole story. :
Dr D. J. West not long ago^ drew our attention to the numerous
pitfalls and possibilities of false scent in the investigation of
spontaneous cases. But the a priori dismissal of them is danger-
ously misleading in a philosophical speculation on precognition.
Mr Tyrrell's reminder^ that, for theory-building in psychical
research, all the available material must be utilized is salutary.
|
Dr Soal himself has recently cautioned us that 'card-guessing is
very like studying the habits of the badger by taking him from his i
native woodland and shutting him up in some wretched cage. In i
i
such cramped circumstances the animal would be unlikely to
exhibit many of his true characteristics'.'
It is true that, in a large proportion of cases of spontaneous i
^ e.g., the case of Edisbury, Mrs Sidgwick, loc. cit., p. 318. The case
'
lacks the usual corroborative testimony and there are uncertainties on
some points. But does it seem likely that the whole incident was fabri- 1
cated by a pseudo-memory?
^ The Beginnings of Seership (Stead's Publishing House, 1909), Ch. VI,
pp. 167-8. Turvey was known to Professor J. H. Hyslop. A perusal of '
the book will convince the psychical researcher that the evidential stand- '
ards maintained in it are much higher than those he associates with j
'spiritualistic' literature generally.
I
^ Supernonnal Facilities in Man (Eng. tr., Methuen, 1923), Part III, ,
Ch. 3.
. . V
* For a case of this type, see Dame Edith Lyttelton, Some Cases of '
Prediction, pp. 120-5.
""Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XLVIII, Part 175 (July 1948), pp. 264-300.
' Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XLVIII, Part 173 (May 1947), pp. 65-120. i
' Hibbert 'Journal, Vol. XLVIII, No. 3 (April 1950), p. 234. Cf.
Mr George Hughes in Mind, loc. cit., p. 110, and Dr J. B. Rhine in 1
Telepathy and Human Personality (Myers Memorial Lecture, 1950), 1
p. 33 et seq.
195 1] A Note on Precognition 513
precognition relating to trivial events, the 'foreknowledge' w^as not
identified as such at the time when it emerged spontaneously.
But not enough attention has been paid, I think, to a curious
circumstance linked to some cases of 'autoscopic' precognition in
this group. At the moment the precognition was fulfilled or was
about to be fulfilled, there occurred a sensation du dejd vu ; the
whole scene seemed oddly familiar to the percipient.^ I quite
realize that, in view of all that orthodox psychologists have said
about 'false recognition' or 'paramnesia', the dejd vu cannot serve
as evidence for supernormal non-inferential precognition. But
where an 'extra-chance' element is regarded as most likely on
other grounds, the dejd vu is not without its possible theoretical
significance. We have, then, two seemingly discrepant facts. On
the one hand, an image arising spontaneously in the mind is
regarded as ^re-cognitive rather than as re?ro-cognitive. On the
other hand, the situation in which the ostensible precognition
finds its fulfilment seems oddly familiar to the subject, as if he has
already been in it.
A hypothesis of great value in trying to assimilate precognition
was hinted at by F. W. H. Myers^ and elaborated by H. F. Salt-
marsh.^ Its importance for psychical researchers has been stressed
by Soal and Goldney.* Saltmarsh groped for a solution of the
problem in terms of a 'saddleback' theory of the 'specious present'.
Let us suppose that the 'maximal degree of psychological pre-
sentedness' in the 'specious present' tails off to zero in two
intrinsically opposite directions corresponding to our empirical
'past' and empirical 'future'. To account for the ostensive
cognition of a distant 'future event', we have to extend the 'spec-
ious present' beyond its hitherto acknowledged narrow limits.
Saltmarsh argued that there may be a 'subliminal' awareness of a
'specious present' much longer than the one with which we are
familiar in ordinary experience. On this supposition, we can
account for the cognitive attitudes of 'expectation' and 'belief
arising in connexion with the emergence of spontaneous pre-
cognition and also the dejd vu which occurs when the precognition
is fulfilled. Ex hypothesi, an experience that has been lived
through in the 'subliminal' mind comes to the surface, but it lies
beyond the 'supraliminal present' in the direction corresponding
to the empirical 'future'. The fact that ostensible precognition
^ For illustrations, see Mrs Sidgwick, loc. cit., pp. 314-17, 328, 346-7,
and Myers, loc. cit., pp. 491-2, 495, 504-5, 533.
^ loc. cit., pp. 342-4.
^Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XLII, Part 134 (February 1934), pp. 74-93;
Foreknotvledge (Bell, 1938), p. 94 et seq.
*Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XLVir, Part 167 (December 1943), pp. 28-9.
514 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [nov. i
shows omissions, distortions, and dislocations can be understood
'
if we suppose that 'subHminal' knowledge is 'mediated' to ordinary I
J
consciousness by various psychological devices such as 'symboli-
'
zation', 'automatic writing and speech', etc. I dissent from Pro-
J
fessor's Broad's view that there is an intrinsic implausibility about i
any prehensive analysis of ostensible precognition. Saltmarsh's
statistical treatment of cases of spontaneous precognition^ and j
recent psycho-analytical studies^ suggest that precognition, even if !
]
it is ostensive, has to negotiate a 'barrier' of some kind before
'
manifesting itself at the empirical level of observation. The signifi-
*
cant precognitive 'misses', for which statistical evidence is accumu-
lating, may have their origin in an unusual amount of psychological
'resistance' encountered at the 'barrier' which necessitates a
|
'subliminal' substitution of items paranormally known to be f
'wrong' for items paranormally known to be 'right'. I may refer
"
in this connexion to some valuable observations made by Dr Soal ^
in his recent experiments with Mrs Stewart.^ The tendency for '
'
telepathic precognition and retrocognition to occur, sometimes \
together, in the experimental situation, receives a suggestive inter-
pretation on Saltmarsh's hypothesis if we suppose that telepathic "
interaction takes place between 'subliminal selves' with 'specious "
presents' extending beyond their ordinarily recognized limits in
the two directions corresponding to empirical 'past' and 'future'. '
The pattern of the paranormal response emerging at the empirical '
level of observation (e.g. the inverted U-shaped curve in Caring- '
ton's experiments) may be determined not only by 'subliminal
specious presents', but by the time-units (seconds, minutes, or i
{'
hours) employed by the experimenter and the psychological
'
rhythms of 'supraliminal' minds. The entire terrestrial life of a [
man, for aught we know, may constitute the 'specious present' of
his 'subliminal self. Of very great significance for this speculation
are those cases of spontaneous 'autoscopic' precognition in which ^
the percipient enacts a scene in the remote future, experiencing ^
hallucinations that are almost like percepts. In a case published '
by Dame Edith Lyttelton*—I have referred to it in an earlier
footnote—the percipient had a 'vision' of a fireplace in front of
which stood two men, both dark. She noticed that one of them ^
had beautiful teeth. They were talking. A fair man, whose face j
she could not see, walked across. She was so anxious to see him n
1 Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XLII, Part 134, pp. 99-103. ' E
"
J. Ehrenwald, Telepathy and Medical Psychology (Allen & Unwin, '(
1947). ^
5
^ The Experimental Situation in Psychical Research, Section 28, pp.
38-40. 1
* Some Cases of Prediction, T^Tp. 120-5.
195 1] ^ Note on Precognition 515
that she jumped out of her bed and knocked her head on the chest
of drawers. The whole scene came to hfe many years later in a
Club in Central India. She started forward to see the fair man
and knocked into a stranger. At the time of the 'vision', the Club
house had not been built and the two men had been boys at Eton.
The percipient's testimony was corroborated by her sister and a
friend. There is a correspondence between these cases of 'pre-
vision' and the cases of 'hypermnesia'^ in which the subject
're-experiences' the 'past' with a wealth of detail arguing for
something more than mere 'memory'.
Many cases of spontaneous precognition lend support to the
hypothesis that telepathic interaction occurs between 'subliminal
selves' with 'extended specious presents'. Discussing the case of
Mrs Schweizer,^ Saltmarsh remarks^ that the details are 'utterly
inexplicable unless we adopt the rather unlikely hypothesis that
the precognition occurred in the first place to Mr Deverell and
never reached his normal consciousness, but was transmitted tele-
pathically to Mrs Schweizer, and that the detail of the name,
"Henry Irvin", was added as a sort of extra identification'. I do
not quite understand why Saltmarsh regarded this as a 'rather
unlikely hypothesis'. Telepathic interaction at a 'subliminal
level' may be the rule rather than the exception. As Deverell was
an eye-witness of the accident which killed Frederick Schweizer,
his 'subliminal specious present' would have included the details
about the fall, etc.
Deverell's personal encounter with Mrs Schweizer might have
been anticipated by a telepathic interaction of their selves at a
'subliminal level'. Apropos of a well-known case* in which the
Duchess of Hamilton was the percipient, Saltmarsh^ says that
'There seems to be no reason whatever why this scene should have
been foreseen by the Duchess. It looks like a perfectly meaning-
less and sporadic happening.' Not altogether, if we suppose that
Alfred Cooper's 'subliminal specious present' extended into his
empirical 'future' to include the details about the bath with the red
lamp over it and the man with the red beard, and that the infor-
* See Boris Sidis and S. P. Goodhart, Multiple Personality (New York,
Appleton, 1905), Part II, Ch. 10, pp. 156-9 ; Part III, Ch. 14 ; Modern
Trends in Psychological Medicine, edited by Noel G. Harris (Butterworth,
1948), Chs. I and 12.
^ Mrs Sidgwick, loc. cit., pp. 322-4. I am afraid I cannot share all
Dr D. J. West's doubts about the fallibility of the early S.P.R. investiga-
tors who furnished the details about the case. Cf. W. H. Salter, Proc.
S.P.R., Vol. XLVIII, Part 175, pp. 301-5.
' Foreknowledge, p. 5 1. Saltmarsh sets down the name as '
Schweitzer '.
I have adopted the spelling given in Mrs Sidgwick's original report.
* Myers, op. cit., pp. 505-6. ' Op. cit., p. 60.
A3
I
5i6 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [nov.
mation was transmitted to the Duchess by telepathic interaction at
a 'subUminal level' and emerged as a 'vision' in her 'borderland'
state. The 'personality linkages' seem to have been all in favour
of such a hypothesis. Cooper was on friendly terms with the Duke
and the Duchess, and moreover was attending the Duke in a
professional capacity. I shall not list here all the cases which can
be dealt with along these lines. I shall merely indicate the sort of
speculative analysis that can be undertaken. The telepathic
situation described by Hubert Wales in the Proceedings^ of the
S.P.R. involved ostensible retrocognition^ as well as ostensible
precognition.^ In the Gordon Davis case* arguing for telepathic
interaction, there were curious features suggesting that Davis's
'supraliminal' awareness focussed on the empirical 'present' (a
visit to the neighbourhood of the Eastern Esplanade, an interview
with Mr Short at the Marine Parade, etc.) was embedded in a
'subliminal' awareness of the 'co-conscious' variety extending into
Davis's empirical 'future' as well as his empirical 'past'.^
It is also worth noticing that, in some alleged instances of tele-
pathy from 'discarnate minds', queer 'temporal displacements'
occurred. Mrs Piper's control 'G.P.' sometimes referred to
empirically 'past' happenings as if they were contemporaneous
events. A very odd circumstance is set down in Nea Walker's
The Bridget During a sitting with Mrs Warren Elliott, a '
com-
municator' referred to a trivial event that happened three or four
days later in language that implied it was already 'past'. One of
the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas's 'communicators' volunteered the
^ Vol. XXXI, Part 80 (November 1920). Cf. The 'Telepathic diary'
of Dr and Mrs S. pubHshed by Myers, op. cit., p. 455-7.
^Ibid., cases I, XIII, XXX, XXXII, XXXVI, XLII, XLIII, and
XLV. Mr Wales remarks that, assuming a telepathic connexion, the
transmission or the emergence of thought was sometimes 'apparently
considerably deferred' (p. 145). In case XXXVI, the only unity of the
telepathic impressions was provided by Mr Wales's drawing-room seen
in a 'retrospective vision', as it were.
* Ibid., pp. 200-208.
*Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXXV (1926), Part 96.
^ Ibid., Note, p. 572. Dr Soal draws our attention to the fact that,
during the sitting with Mrs Blanche Cooper on January 4, Playle was
mentioned as an old school friend of Davis. Davis's diary showed that on
January 6 he had an interview with Playle. It is necessary to realize
that, in laboratory investigations of precognition, the subject's interest
is focussed on small units of behaviour. The experimenter can seldom
use a time-unit longer than a few hours without relaxing his 'control'.
Outside the laboratory, we usually think in terms of larger chronological
units (days, weeks, months) which derive their significance from the
concrete events of our lives. Cases of spontaneous precognition seem to
refer to these larger units.
* Cassell, 1927, pp. 285-6.
195 1] A Note on Precognition 517
puzzling explanation : 'I myself have often thought that your next
week is sometimes our today'.^ All this may be dismissed as
'non-evidential' stuff, but I submit that it is quite in keeping v^^ith
the hypothesis of an 'extended subliminal present'. So is an
i
incident discussed by Mr J. G. Piddington in his elaborate
attempt^ to refute the hypothesis of telepathy inter vivos as an
explanation of the 'one-horse dawn' scripts. He argued that the
appropriate contexts to the allusions in the script could be found
only in the Oedipus Coloneus of Sophocles and in Sir Richard
Jebb's notes thereon and that this pointed to 'discarnate inter-
vention', since the intentional organization of the material could
not, in the specific circumstances, be plausibly attributed either
to the experimenter (Dr A. W. Verrall) or the automatist (Mrs A.
W. Verrall). In a further note,^ Mr Piddington maintained that at
least one day, or perhaps several days, before Dr Verrall began the
'one-horse dawn' experiment, a cryptic reference was made, in
Mrs Verrall's script, to the quotation of a Juvenal passage in
Jebb's notes. He conjectured that Dr Verrall might have carried
out an experiment that a 'discarnate intelligence' had devised and
imposed on him. But, on the 'communicator' hypothesis, may we
I not suppose that the 'praecox olea' ('precocious olive') of Mrs
I
Verrall's script was a precognitive insight into Dr Verrall's mind as
well as design? So experienced an investigator as Mr Kenneth
Richmond indulged in a not dissimilar speculative flight after
analysing the evidence of intention in the book-test material
supporting the 'La Vita Nuova' case.* It may be my fancy. But I
do think that the allusions to the 'herb moly' in the 'one-horse
dawn' scripts go deeper than the hypothesis of 'buried memories'
or 'cryptomnesia'. The associations of the Comus passage^ linking
it with Dr Verrall, Mrs Verrall, and Dr Benson of Wellington
College hint, though obscurely, at a 'past' which is not 'dead' and
is far different from any stored-up 'mnemic traces'. A 'sub-
liminal specious present' may serve at least as a guess at the truth
about complex telepathic situations which prima facie involve
'discarnate' as well as 'incarnate' minds.
From the standpoint of psychical research, there is a great deal
^Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XLVIII, Part 175 (July 1948), p. 326; Pre-
cognition and Human Survival (Psychic Press, 1949), p. 103. Cf. The
remark by a 'communicator' in The Bridge, p. 304 :
'/ think that your
"to-morrow" is our "to-day", and your "yesterday" is our "to-day"
very often. We all think that.'
" Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXX, Part 76 (November 1918), pp. 175-229; Part
77 (July 1919), PP- 296-305.
^Proc. S.P.R. Vol. XXXIV, Part 91 (July 1924), pp. 159-65.
* Proc. S.P.R. Vol. XLIV, Part 145, p. 52, last paragraph.
' W. H. Salter, Proc. S.P.R. Vol. XXXIV, Pa rt 9 i ,
r 1 .'3
5i8 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [nov.
to be said for Saltmarsh's speculative venture. Metaphysically
viewed, however, it is exposed to grave difficulties. It should be
obvious, even to moderately critical readers, that the statements
about telepathic interaction 'occurring' at a 'subliminal level' that
I have made in this note would be philosophically unintelligible
without some very drastic revision of our notions of temporal
becoming. I shall not attempt to explore here the lines along
which the metaphysical reconstruction can be carried out. In
view of the distinctive merits of Saltmarsh's hypothesis, any
reformulation of it seems worth while.
Department of Philosophy,
Madras Christian College. •
.
;
HOME-TESTING ESP EXPERIMENTS
Second Report by G. W. Fisk
Since the preliminary report [Journal, January-February 195 1,
pp. 369-70) which gave results up to 31 October 1950, the tests
have continued and the following are the details from the com-
mencement in January 1950 up to 31 July 1951.
No. of percipients tested
Total runs (25 trials) ....
Average no. of runs for each percipient
Total trials : On target ....
,, ,, On - I and + i displacements
233
3694
16
92,350
88,656
Backward
Displacement
(-1)
Target
(0)
Forward
Displacement
(+1)
Total Hits 17278 18518 17320
Expectation 17731 18470 17731
Deviation -453 + 48 -411
Critical Ratio 3-8i 0-40 3-46
P •00015 •00056
Odds against Chance 6900 : I 1780 : I
With one exception (whose figures have been excluded from the
results tabulated above) no individual subject was found whose
195 1] Home-Testing ESP Experiments 519
scores were consistently significant either on the target or in
displacement directions. The significant negative scoring on both
- 1 and + 1 displacements has continued. It will be seen (if a
comparison be made with the first report) that the P figure for
'these - I and +1 negative deviations has diminished from -004
to -00015 and from -ooi to -00056 respectively. The very close
conformity of the direct hits with chance expectation has also been
1 maintained.
The persistent displacement negative scoring is very puzzling.
It is a very small effect—the average deviation from chance
expectation per run is only -0-12 for -i and -o-ii for +1
displacements—and it is only its continuance over a large number
of runs that raises it to significance. It is important to ascertain
whether the eflPect is a genuine phenomenon and not merely a
statistical artifact ; the analysis is being pursued in order to
I determine this. In order to obtain further data, I shall be glad
if any who can take part in these Home ESP Experiments will get
I into touch with me (at 6 Ditton Grange Close, Ditton Hill, Surrey)
and also if any who have already received packs of cards and score-
sheets will continue the tests and let me have the results, no
(matter how insignificant they may appear to be.
As mentioned above, one percipient has produced strikingly
abnormal scores. In his first 400 trials he scored 190 hits against
a chance expectation of 80—which gives a fantastic critical ratio
of 13-75 (P is electronically small!). In his g-izth runs he made
successively 16, 18, 22, and 20 hits. I doubt if anyone in this
country has ever before, in experiments with ESP cards, scored
22 hits in 25 trials. I had an opportunity of meeting this per-
cipient, and the agent and experimenter. They are all trained
physicists and I, personally, was satisfied that the conditions under
which the experiments were being conducted were reasonably
good. Random numbers were used to determine the order of the
cards guessed in a variant of Dr Soal's technique. Since my visit
the percipient has suddenly begun scoring negatively—but still
significantly. His latest 200 trials give a C.R. of - 2-65 (P = -008).
The experiments are continuing.
A disconcerting discovery is that one percipient is sometimes
scoring significantly on the 'wrong' pack. In one instance her
; score was normal on the pack actually being turned up by the
agent but significant (C.R. = 3-4, P= -00068) on the next pack
already prepared for use. That appears to be a forward displace-
ment effect of a whole pack (25 cards) at a time. One is dismayed
at the prospect of the re-examination of the 3,694 runs so far
recorded in order to determine whether the occurrence is an
isolated freak!
I
520 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [nov.
Finally, I think it is advisable to repeat a sentence from the
preliminary report : 'As the experiments were not supervised, it
is, of course, legitimate only to regard the results as suggestive,
however significant they may appear statistically.'
AN ESP EXPERIMENT WITH A DOUBLE
TARGET
By G. W. Fisk and D. J. West
This experiment failed to yield evidence of any ESP effects,
but a brief summary is reported here to illustrate a particular line
of investigation.
Ten of the subjects who had taken part in G.W.F.'s Home-
Testing experiments (reported in the Journal for January-
February 1 95 1, No. 662) acted as percipients in these tests. Some
were chosen because their results seemed promising ; others
because they were available.
The subjects were each sent a different set of sixteen sealed
packs of E SP cards and were allotted a different time for recording
their guesses. They were told that at the specified time G.W.F.
would 'concentrate' on the target cards in his home while they
'concentrated' on the sealed packs. The subjects presumed that
the sealed packs contained cards in the same order as the targets
in G.W.F.'s home, but in fact this was not so. The sealed packs
were randomised by D.J.W. and their order was unknown to
G.W.F. The purpose was to find out which would prove the
more effective target, the cards in the subject's possession or the
cards being looked at by G.W.F.
The question, unfortunately, was not answered, for the results
showed no significant correspondence between the subjects'
guesses, taken as a whole or individually, and either of the two
possible targets.
SUMMARY OF SCORES
(4000 trials)
On Sealed Targets On Fisk Targets
Total hits scored by subjects - - 790 786
Chance expectation - - - - 800 ,
. 800
Deviation - -10 -14
How do Birds Navigate? 521
- HOW DO BIRDS NAVIGATE?
A Review of Further Experiments
By A. J. C. Wilson
Two years ago I read a paper to the Society (printed in the
Journal, VoL 35, pp. 30-6) on theories of bird navigation, with
special reference to that of Professor H. L. Yeagley.^ He sug-
gested that homing pigeons recognize (i) their latitude, and (ii)
the vertical component of the earth's magnetic field, and fly
towards familiar values of these variables. They could thus
navigate towards home over completely unfamiliar territory, and
would need to make use of landmarks for the last 20 or 30 miles
only. The suggested method (Coriolis acceleration) by which the
birds could recognize latitude came in for severe criticism, and
biologists in general were unwilling to accept the evidence of the
experiments he devised and carried out to test his theory. These,
however, seemed more successful than would be expected if his
theory were entirely wrong, and one therefore turns with interest
to his second paper.^ I should say immediately that in reading this
one experiences the kind of disappointment so familiar in psychical
research. A line of investigation yields promising but not con-
clusive results when first taken up, and when continued the further
results can only be described as still promising and still incon-
clusive.
Professor Yeagley recognizes the force of some of the objections
urged against the Coriolis-acceleration suggestion, and acknow-
ledges the help that shore lines may give to birds in suitable
localities (what he calls 'pilotage', as distinct from 'navigation'),
but describes a further six experiments in support of the general
correctness of his theory. These fall into three groups : (i) a
repetition of the experiment of attaching magnets to the pigeons'
wings, (ii) further experiments on the conjugate-point idea, and
(iii) following groups of three to ten birds by aeroplane.
The repetition of the magnetic-wing experiment can only be
called a failure. Most of the birds went well east of their objective,
whether they were provided with magnets, or with copper plates,
or were without attachment. Professor Yeagley is inclined to
connect this with magnetic disturbances on the day of the experi-
ment, but it is astonishing that it was not tried again when con-
ditions had become normal. An independent magnetic-wing
^ Henry L. Yeagley, 'A Preliminary Study of a Physical Basis of Bird
Navigation. Parti.' J. Applied Physics, iS, 1947, 1025-63,
^ Ibid., Part II. jl. Applied Physics, 22, 746-60.
522 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [NOV.
experiment by Professor Gordon^ was also inconclusive ; all birds
reached home within a few hours of release. Perhaps the dis-
tances involved (36-58 miles, compared with Yeagley's 92) were
too small to give any discrimination.
The conjugate-point experiments, taken singly, were about as
convincing as that described in my previous review. Lumped
together, the evidence looks more impressive. A total of 671 birds
was released in seven experiments (three described in his first paper,
four in his second), and on the average the birds flew about 36 miles
in a direction only 3-2° from that to be expected on Professor
Yeagley's theory. The probability of the direction being so nearly
right by chance is, I suppose, 3-27180°, or less than 0-02.
The experiment of following birds by aeroplane has been tried
previously by Grifiin and Hock {see Jourrial, Vol. 35, p. 31) with
gannets released inland ; these sea birds seemed to fly at random
till they reached a coast line. In Professor Yeagley's experiments
involving 31 groups of birds, 8 groups flew more or less
directly in the expected direction, 2 groups flew in the directly
opposite direction, 2 made more or less continuous circling
movements without getting far, and the rest flew in more or less
irregular polygonal curves. The pilot of the aeroplane observed
that the pigeons seemed to follow mountain ridges for some time
before summoning sufficient resolution to fly up and over them,
and to go out of their way to circle over towns before continuing
on their route.
As mentioned earlier, these results cannot be described as more
than promising, and worth following up. Possibly an attempt to
study separately the two components of the proposed navigational
grid would be fruitful. This might be done by choosing release
points that required the birds to home in latitude only, or in mag-
netic vertical component only, preferably with aeroplane following.
* Donald A. Gordon, 'Sensitivity of the Homing Pigeon to the Mag-
netic Field of the Earth'. Science, 108, 710-11. (This forms part of a
symposium occupying pages 705-1 1, but is concerned mainly with migra-
tion rather than navigation.)
Reviews 523
REVIEWS
The Clairvoyant Theory of Perception : a New Theory of
Vision. By M. M. Moncrieff. Foreword by H. H. Price.
London, Faber, 195*1. 315 pp. 21s.
This is an interesting book, as the author has made a detailed
examination of one particular way of developing Bergson's
suggestion that the function of the central nervous system is in
the main eliminative and not productive. Captain Moncrieff first
analyses the current theories of perception, paying particular
attention to vision. He demonstrates their various weaknesses
from the point of view of plain observation, logic, and neuro-
physiology. He then presents his new theory. This suggests
that the nervous impulses reaching the cortex from the sense
organs there 'evoke or release in the mind clairvoyant vision from
points of view at each retina of those external material things from
whose surfaces are reflected the physical radiations that stimulate
the retina' (p. 106). Hence the observer is supposed to look out
at the outside world from a position just in front of the retina.
This allows diseases of the cornea and lens to affect clairvoyant
vision directly. It appears that the distorted form of the nervous
stimuli arriving at the cortex consequent on the distortion of the
cornea and lens bears no relation to the subsequent disordered
perception of the external world. This latter is due to the direct
distortion of clairvoyant vision trying to peer out from its position
just in front of the retina through the foggy lens of cataract or the
scarring left by corneal ulcers. It seems to be a necessary con-
sequence of this theory that diseases of the nervous system proxi-
mal to the retina should not affect vision. For if we consider the
case of a progressive cataract, as long as a glimmer of light can get
through to the retina impulses will reach the cortex and there
exercise their powers of evocation on the mind. This latter must
belong to the 'all-or-none' class of reaction, as the resultant
defective vision is held to be due directly to the fact that clair-
voyant vision cannot see through the cloudy lens.
Now, if we consider cases of bilateral vascular lesions of the
parietal lobe, the nervous impulses reach the cortex correctly
and any clairvoyant vision released would have a perfect set of
lenses at its disposal. Yet marked disturbances of space perception
result. Thus we are forced to accept that a disordering of the
electronic patterns in the brain causes the disorders of space per-
ception directly, which is the very position this theory was designed
to avoid.
The author continues to elaborate his theory with much ingen-
524 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [NOV.
uity, paying particular attention to optical matters. He gives an
account of an interesting series of experiments conducted using a
Pigeon-Cantonnet stereoscope. It is difficult to accept the theory,
however, on account of the large number of phenomena which are
not discussed in the book and which would appear to offer in-
superable difficulties. The following are- some of these :
(1) After-images.
(2) The neurological condition mentioned above which follows
bilateral lesions of the parietal cortex. In this condition the
patient cannot estimate distance, and out of a multiplicity of
objects can never see more than one or two at a time. Right and
left orientation is entirely lost, and he cannot tell whether an
object is receding or approaching. Vision in depth is, however,
maintained and the patient remains keenly aware of his dis-
abilities.
(3) The formed visual hallucinations (of people talking to-
gether, etc.) produced by stimulating the temporal cortex in
certain conditions where this part of the brain is unstable.
(4) The marked changes in the perceived world produced by
mescaline.
(5) The demonstration by the stroboscope that the visual field
in consciousness is built up by a scanning mechanism.
With regard to (4) and (5) the following extract from Professor
Meyer-Gross's recent article (' Artificial psychoses and other
mental abnormalities produced by drugs'. British Medical
Journal, 11 August 195 1) is of interest :
"
Within the field of vision the drug [mescaline] interferes with the
stillness and movements of objects. The remarkable mechanism by
which we normally see things fixed and of persistent shape seems to
break down in the intoxication. The process of perceiving and of
picturing our surroundings at an instantaneous glance is disturbed,
probably slowed down, and we observe the scanning of the picture in
progress. (My italics).
The chief value of this interesting book lies in the author's keen
criticisms of the current theories of perception.
J. R. Smythies
Second Sight in Daily Life. By W. H. W. Sabine. London,
Allen & Unwin, 1951. 208 pp. 12s. 6d.
The author, an Englishman now resident in the United States,
has for over twenty years followed the commendable practice of
recording in his diary all instances in which there seemed to him
to be a significant connexion between his dreams or waking
195 1] Reviews 525
experiences and events of which he had no normal knowledge and
which he could not rationally infer at the time of his experience.
As he is well read in the literature of psychical research, and alive
to the bearing on his experiences of other schools of psychology,
great interest attaches to his comments and to the theory which he
propounds.
He argues that there is a much larger precognitive element in
dreams and in waking experiences than is generally recognized,
and discusses various causes for the prevalent under-estimate.
Thus, the connexion between experience and event may fail to be
recognized owing to the symbolic presentation of the event to the
percipient's conscious mind. Or it may be overlooked because the
percipient, if he is on the watch for possible fulfilment, is expecting
it to take the form of a more important event than actually occurs ;
or, again, because he does not realize that the connexion, if any,
may be not between his earlier experience and some subsequent
external event, but between two experiences of his own of which
the second consists of, say, hearing or reading a perhaps inaccurate
account of an event in the external world. Or it may be that a
significant connexion is observed, but owing to a bias in favour
of telepathy, factors in the case pointing to precognition may be
overlooked.
Even where the manifest content of a dream corresponds
closely with some contemporary event not normally known to the
dreamer, it is difficult to be sure that there has been any form of
paranormal activity, owing to the frequency of dreams and the
multiplicity of incidents, some one of which might fortuitously
correspond. It is in fact only when the manifest content of the
dream and of the event are very unusual, and the correspondence
between them exceedingly close, that a paranormal explanation
seems to have any validity except for the dreamer.
But if things happen in this order : (i) a dream or other ex-
perience, (2) an external event not on the face of it closely corre-
sponding to the experience, (3) the percipient's acquaintance with
the event by some normal means (e.g. a newspaper account of it),
(4) a retrospective interpretation of the experience, possibly a
symbolic interpretation made by the percipient in the light of (3),
the scope both of chance coincidence and of subjectivity is greatly
extended, and the case for paranormality proportionately weakened.
The interpretations of his experiences given by Mr Sabine seem
to me in general tenable, but not so certainly and uniquely the
right ones as to make one say at once, '
Of course, that experience
foreshadowed that event! '
But the cases he cites are interesting
and his comments are instructive.
The latter part of the book is devoted to a criticism of current
526 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [nov.
theories regarding precognition, and a statement of the author's
own hypothesis. He is dissatisfied, for reasons which he gives,
with all explanations based on a two-dimensional view of time.
He suggests that both the act of precognition and the physical
perception of the fulfilment are acts of memory of a '
Basic
Experience '
antecedent to both.
The process . . . may be set out in its entirety as follows :
'
'
A. Basic experience.
B. Basic memory.
C. Basic memory intermittently transferred to Conscious Memory
(Precognition).
D. Physical experience.
E. Conscious Memory of '
D ', which may be observed to corre-
spond to '
C '.
(p. 180.)
The author regards the Basic experience as '
an experience
solely in the sphere of thought ', and not attempting to define it,
adds :
The most that can be said, and speaking in relation to the problem under
discussion, is that a Basic experience is an experience of the mind, one
which, when transferred to the conscious memory, constitutes Pre-
cognition of later experiences through the physical sense organs,
(p. 181.) J 1 ,t
It will be seen that Mr Sabine has difficulty not only in defining
the Basic experience, which is the central point of his theory, but
in offering the reader more than the vaguest notion of it. This is
not due to any failure on his part to analyse the available evidence,
but to the fact that at present the available evidence is too scanty.
Apart from his own careful records, there are a number of pub-
lished spontaneous cases, not all particularly cogent ; if dreams
are omitted from the calculation, rather a small number, as
Saltmarsh's Foreknozvledge shows. If we turn to the results of
experiment, we find a large number of successes, obtained under
good conditions indeed, but with few subjects. Many more good
cases, and successes with many more experimental subjects, seem
to me desirable before we plunge further into a morass of specula-
tive theory, where nothing seems certain except that all our every-
day matter-of-fact notions are wrong.
W. H. S.
Mors et Vita. Introduction par Gabriel Marcel ; textes et
document reunis par Robert Aron et Jean-Claiide Renard.
Paris, Plon, 1951. 290 pp. 360 fr.
This book is a collection from a number of authors of evidence
on survival provided by psi phenomena. The cases quoted have
1951] Reviews 527
all been published before and many are taken from S.P.R. sources.
Various theories on the subject, including that of Whately
Carington, are discussed.
Its main interest for psychical researchers lies in the intro-
duction by Gabriel Marcel, the eminent French philosopher who
has recently given the Gifford Lectures in Aberdeen. He regrets
the 'incredible bad faith' of philosophers on the Continent, and
particularly in France, in refusing even to consider the possibility
of psi, but he acclaims what he calls the infinitely more open-
minded and honest attitude of the Anglo-Saxons. This ostrich-
like attitude of philosophers he puts down partly to the pretention
that humanity is already sufficiently adult to comprehend its
surroundings, and partly to the fear of falling to a sub-human level
or of being forced to doubt certain postulates which seem neces-
sary to an intelligible order of things.
He finds the Anglo-Saxons too inclined to confine themselves to
the collection of facts and, while expressing himself with great
caution about the origins of psi phenomena, he considers it high
time that more study was given to their implications.
Wisdom, Madness and Folly : the Philosophy of a Lunatic. By
John Custance. Foreword by Canon L. W. Grensted.
London, Gollancz, 195 1. 254 pp. i6s.
In this book the philosophy forms the major contribution in what
is surely the most comprehensive subjective study of cyclophrenia
yet produced. It is scarcely possible to do the book justice in a
review—another book assessing the various philosophical and
psycho-pathological concepts might almost be said to be
necessary. The play on the negative-positive, the theory of actuality
against a Jungian background, is comprehensively and admirably
arranged, although it is sometimes difficult to maintain the
distinction between negative and positive, and, upon occasion, to
be certain which one is dealing with.
Canon Grensted has commented on the apparently unrecog-
nized trend towards existentialism ;
nevertheless, the whole work
is well arranged and remarkably objective considering the sub-
jective nature of its inspiration. Obviously, Mr Custance is a man
of great intellect and culture, and, although a tremendous biblio-
graphy is involved, he has been at pains to maintain readability
without loss of purpose or direction.
From the point of view of the psychiatrist this book reveals far
more than similar works—for instance, those of Clifford Beers and
The Maniac—for even during periods of mild psychopathy he is
528 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [nov.
still able to describe objectively his mental process during periods of
elation and depression with their accompanying fragmented
delusional systems and clang associations. It is here, of course, that
the Jungian reveals himself (and it is not surprising that an
Adlerian approach failed to serve a useful purpose during one of
his episodes).
Obviously one reason v^'hy Mr Custance is able to w^rite this
book at all is because he has been able to develop philospohical
and psychological concepts secondary to his command of language
and imagination, without which intelligence alone would not have
been enough, and without which the manifestations of the
'collective unconscious' would have remained isolated instead of
being woven into the pattern of 'as if experience. It is interesting
that Mr Custance, having been through the 'hell' of depression,
now feels able to face the future, in that he is not now terrified of
further depressive illness as formerly.
One notices that both Mr Custance and Canon Grensted use the
word 'lunatic', presumably in their desire not to be mealy-
mouthed. From the onlooker's point of view it must be recog-
nized that the words 'lunatic', 'psychopath', and 'neurotic' now
involve unpleasantly tinged concepts of personality whereas, from
the therapeutic point of view, it is obviously socially desirable that
mental illness should not be so contaminated and it would prob-
ably be worth while to eradicate these terms from descriptive
literature.
As it is, even wit is not denied us ;
halfway through the book a
litter of pigs is given beautiful names which had to be changed to
'more prosaic ones suited to the herd book' and later, in a comment
about Ashtaroth, there is an aside about ecclesiastics 'without
mentioning names' who 'may even be worshippers of her cruel
spouse Moloch'.
The appendixes call for brief comment in so far as hospital
management and treatment are concerned, and nobody would
disagree with most of the views expressed. It is notoriously diffi-
cult to establish culpability when it is suspected and when the
greatest efforts are made to prevent collaboration between mem-
bers of the staff concerned, as I once found as a member of an
official tribunal of inquiry.
With regard to the relative values of different forms of treatment,
it is not possible here to do more than suggest that results differ
in the hands of different therapists at different times. Weir
Mitchell's own experience of failure only when he began to
examine the rationale and effects of treatment is one example, and
it would hardly be fair to assess the value of two electro-convulsive
treatments as against half-a-dozen given during a different episode
195 1] Reviews 529
in a different hospital by a different therapist, with probably a
different type of machine.
It is altogether a most stimulating and exciting book, which
will become a classic.
Louis Rose
The Uncurtained Throne. By Warner Allen. London, Faber,
1951. 217 pp. I2S. 6d.
A number of years ago the author of The Uncurtained Throne
had a mystical experience which transformed his previous
'patternless existence' into the state of serene certitude about the
existence of God common to mystics of all ages and creeds. After
fifteen years spent 'in contemplation of this mystery' he wrote two
books. The Timeless Moment and The Happy Issue^ whose argu-
ment, he says, 'started from the central fact of the spiritual
experience as an assumed reality transcending logic, and sub-
ordinated to it the experience of the objective self or soul and the
facts of the external world.'
In The Uncurtained Throne he reverses this argument, 'moving
from scientific experiment to spiritual experience and seeking to
prove the truth that science denies from the facts that science
affirms'. Among those facts he cites the findings of psychical
research.
His success in this aim is still likely to depend on the previous
attitude of the reader. A young mathematician recently had an
experience similar to Mr Allen's, and—much to his astonishment,
for he was quite ignorant of mystical literature—he also found his
attitude changed in a split second from agnosticism to blissful
certainty. His subsequent comment about the thesis of this book
was a placid, 'Of course.' It is safe to say that with his type of
mind his comments before the experience—which he, like others,
insisted was impossible to describe—would have been un-
printable.
The mystic shares this language difficulty with humbler
psychics, though he more often escapes another : that of confound-
ing the image through which an experience may be recorded
with the experience itself. To do this may lead both percipient
and researcher astray if only because one image may symbolise a
number of things and a number of images may be used to convey
one experience.
Books like The Uncurtained Throne are only likely to be of
Both published by Faber.
530 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [nov.
interest to the psychical researcher who constantly bears such
difficulties of language and imagery in mind.
R. H.
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research.
Vol. 45, No. 3, July 1951. New York, A.S.P.R. $1.50.
I did not do justice to a paper by C. M. Cooper, M.D. in the
October 1950 issue of the Journal, and a new report from his pen
in the July 1951 issue gives me an excuse to refer back to it.
Cooper has used a similar approach to both his problems
—
that of self-observation. His handling of this simplest of tools is
very effective and we can all profit from it.
His first paper, rather cumbrously entitled 'An Inherited
Baffling Perception and its Uncovering', deals with three spon-
taneous experiences which Cooper had as a young medical
graduate, and which he formerly attributed to a psychic gift
inherited from his mother.
Incident No. 3 may be summarised here. Cooper had been
sitting for half an hour in the staff quarters of the Royal Infirmary
of Edinburgh when a house physician entered. Glancing casually
at him Cooper exclaimed, 'Forbes, whatever made you quarrel
with your head nurse?' With some resentment Forbes admitted
the quarrel.
Cooper 'uncovers' his perception in this way : 'Casually looking
up, I saw that Forbes, . . . had entered . . . He skirted the end of
the big centre table, picked up a pitcher of water, and began to fill
a glass. In doing it he turned, so that I got a clear view of his face.
It was much redder than usual . . . He is both perturbed and
angry, I subconsciously divined ... he must have quarelled with
someone. With his chief? No, he would be more perturbed but
not so angry. With a student? No, he might be as angry but he
would not be so perturbed. It must have been with an equal.
Who is there in his ward, from which he has evidently just come,
who to all intents and purposes in his equal? The head nurse.'
The other two incidents he presents and explains in like manner.
But there is a weak point. Cooper developed the denouements
some years after the occurrences.
Sceptics are never tired of rubbing in the warning that
because memory of a given event is vivid and distinct it does not
follow that it is accurate. If we apply this criterion to allegedly
psychic cases, we must apply it with equal rigour to alleged
exposures. We may accept the plausibility of Cooper's explana-
tions but we must reserve judgement on the accuracy of such
igji] Reviews 53^
detailed analysis long after the event. Further, the present account
(some years later still) seems to be the first written one.
What is important in Cooper's work is the principle he thus
established (and now practises)—that a 'hunch', intuition, or
premonition, should always be followed by a spell of acute intro-
spective concentration before any claims are made for it. 'In
playing games', Dr Cooper writes, 'I would come to know, without
knowing how I knew, where a key card or domino lay, . . . what
faulty bid or play [an opponent] would make if given the oppor-
tunity. Always in such cases the uncovered key to the discern-
ment was the subconscious registering and correct interpretation
of an involuntary behaviour reaction on the part of the individual
concerned.'
'Self-Experimentation in Water Divining' is the title of Dr
Cooper's second paper. Cooper and his brother both exhibited
the dowsing reaction. Cooper began 'to toy with the twig, and to
try to make it behave as it seemingly behaved of itself . . . keeping
the wrists and elbows slack, I separated the ends of the prongs
sufficiently to produce a decided tension where they join. I then
with the fingers and forearms rotated the prongs downward and
inward. At once the stem began to dip. As I continued to rotate
the prongs, the twig dipped more and more, and then quite
suddenly the rod itself took command and jerked my hands
downward, stretching the wrists'.
Cooper now propounds the interesting theory that the dowsing
reaction is a function of the anatomy and gait of the dowser. As
far as I know this is new. '
I am sway-backed, and as I walk I
project my body forw^ard and brace back my shoulders. This
carries my elbows backward, upward, and outward. As this occurs
my forearms pronate. The result of these movements is that I
produce a decided tension where the prongs join, and also rotate
them. This causes the stem of the rod to begin to dip. I grip
tighter to stop the movement, but in so doing I automatically
further pronate and hence without realising it, increase the force
that is causing the movement.'
After describing the results of holding the twig in a different
fashion and of using other dowsing implements. Cooper refers to
experiments in approaching a pail of water from various distances.
He observed that he held the prongs very slackly until he ap-
proached to a certain distance from the pail, then he subconsciously
tightened his grip, thus alerting his muscles, and giving the dows-
ing reaction.
Cooper concludes that water divining is a spurious^ pheno-
^ It has been brought to my notice that certain dowsers have been of-
fended by my use of the word '
spurious '
in an earlier review. It should
II
532 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [nov.
menon—that the employment of the dowsing reaction in the loca-
tion of water in his own case depends on his ability to read terrain,
'and that those professional dowsers who possess a marked flair in j
this direction would achieve a correspondingly high percentage
of dowsing successes'. Cooper's own experiments, however, can i
hardly rank higher than a pointer to such a generalisation. !
The other papers in the July issue are '
A Series of Spontaneous j
Cases in the Tradition of Phantasms of the Living' by L. A. Dale ;
'The Prophet as a Subject for Psychical Research' by William E.
Hulme, and 'The Medical Section : the first Three Years', a note I
by Geraldine Pederson-Krag.
Denys Parsons :
CORRESPONDENCE
Prejudice
Sir,—There are a large number of people who do not accept
any of the findings of psychical research. This may be because
the evidence is not as yet good enough. The evidence for any
phenomena we are trying to prove must be considerably greater if
they are in disagreement with previously accepted ideas than if
they are in agreement with these ideas. These ideas are not
usually accepted blindly, but because all the available experimental
evidence points in a particular direction. The philosophers refer
to the antecedent improbability of a phenomenon in order to
describe this fact. Many of our critics find refuge in this concept
of antecedent improbability, and to a certain extent legitimately.
But many of us suspect that the real stumbling block is blind
unreasoning prejudice. It is my purpose to suggest a logical
method of distinguishing between the two.
If there is an antecedent improbability of a phenomenon like
telepathy, it may be stated in exact terms before any experiments
are considered. One may say, for example, that the antecedent
improbability of the phenomenon is iq-^^ to i that the pheno-
menon will occur. Then, if we have a statistical experiment, for
example, we may consider our case as proved as soon as we have
antichance odds lo^^ to i. It is no use now for the critic to change
hardly be necessary to explain that in common scientific usage this epi-
thet carries no derogatory attributes such as '
counterfeit ' or ' fraudulent '.
A scientist might easily use the word in reference to a facet of his own
work, meaning that certain evidence had led him to a wrong conclusion.
1951] Correspondence 533
his mind : if he changes his mind, we know that his criticism and
his assessment of antecedent improbabihty was unreasoned, and
we can therefore ignore it.
Of course, a critic may not have the mathematical knowledge
to state the antecedent improbability in the terms we require.
He may say, for example, that the effect is about as likely to occur
as obtaining a bridge hand where every player has a complete
suit. The mathematician can soon transpose this into the terms
required for accurate comparison with ESP data. In the example
quoted the probability is 4! (i3!)*-f-52! that such a bridge hand will
occur, which is approximately io~'^'. We take this now as the
antecedent improbability of the phenomenon.
Soal and Goldney's experiments [Proc. S.P.R., vol. 47, pp. 21-
150) gave a probability of io~^^ that their results were due to
chance. If we take the antecedent improbability from the
example quoted, we find the a postiori probability from the
relation
a postiori probability = experimental probability
antecedent improbability
= 10-35
as the a postiori probability that Soal and Goldney's results were
due to chance.
It might be interesting here to note the probability, as calculated
from the physical principles of quantum mechanics, of what is
apparently an impossible event. A very slowly moving car, of
weight I ton, and very small velocity, encounters a bump in the
road I foot high and 100 feet long. According to classical physics,
the car cannot get past the bump ;
according to quantum mechan-
ics there is a small but finite chance of the car being observed at the
other side of the bump. Calculation gives a probability of io~^^
for this event ; not much more improbable than the idea that
Soal and Goldney's results are due to chance. (This example
was taken from notes of lectures given by Professor Enrico
Fermi at the University of Chicago. It should be noted that the
probability is zero that the car will be observed on top of the bump;
it is only finite on the other side.)
It must be realized that there may be other objections to the
experiments besides the one that the results are due to chance.
For example, Soal, Goldney and the whole horde of distinguished
persons who were brought in as witnesses may have been con-
spiring to put on a gigantic hoax. Is this likely? Of course the
answer to the question, Is it likely or not? is largely a matter of
534 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [nov.
opinion. Here again the same criterion applies as has been
enunciated above. The critic must first name a figure, no matter
how large, for the probability that this could be so ; after this, he
cannot legitimately change his mind. The only legitimate time
for him to argue about antecedent improbabilities is before the
experiment has been carried out, or the results have been made
available to him. If now the critic allows that the chances, for
example, of 7 people being deceived in 7 different experiments are
independent, we can multiply the number of experiments and
witnesses until we have a figure sufficiently big to overcome the
antecedent improbability which he has named.
Unless the critic complies with the conditions stated above, it
can be mathematically proved that he can never be answered. For,
as soon as a new experiment is performed with sufficient anti-
chance odds to overcome the antecedent improbability, the critic
will change his mind and increase the antecedent improbability.
This can proceed ad infinitum. It will be clear to the mathe-
matician that the arguments given above are the same as those
required for the convergence of an infinite series.
The question of how to combat prejudice when it has been
recognized is difficult, and is probably our main task for the future.
Richard Wilson
Is PK Guided by Knowledge?
Sir,—Herewith a thought on the problem whether PK must
be guided by knowledge of the system to be affected, acquired
either normally or paranormally.
One way of attacking this problem, suggested by Mr C. W. K.
Mundle, is to use as a PK tester two random selectors combined
with delay switches, as described in Proc. S.P.R., Part 178, pp.
67-8, and testing two groups of people with this apparatus. To
one group is explained the modus operandi of the selectors so that
they can intelligently direct their act of willing ; the others are
given a simple false explanation so that any effort at directing their
willing will be ineffective. Should both groups score equally well,
it is suggested that the hypothesis that P K is guided by knowledge
would suff"er a severe blow.
This is probably the best suggestion so far made on the subject
;
but unfortunately neither this nor any other such experiment can
be conclusive. Dr Thouless's experiments on WyK {Proc. S.P.R.,
Part 179, p. 116), show that if PK is guided by knowledge, then
this knowledge need not be sensorily acquired. Presumably the
first group in this experiment could, from the information given
them, reason out that a certain part of the mechanism would have
195 1] Correspondence 535
to be affected in a certain way in order to effect a desired result.
The others could discover this either by clairvoyance on the
machine (which is most unlikely) or telepathy from the first group ;
and so we are back where we started. Both groups are equally well
equipped with the necessary information ; in the first case, this is
acquired sensorily, and in the second, extra-sensorily.
For such a reason, I believe that it can never be experimentally
proved either that PK is guided by knowledge or not. It seems
to me, however, that a decision can be reached by theoretical
argument.
If P K is an act of conation (disregarding the question raised on
p. 382 of this volume of the Journal), then I think it consists of at
least two processes, that of willing an event to happen and that of
causing it to happen, with possibly an intermediate linking process.
Since the second process or 'force' must be directional, then either
the primary act of willing must also be directional (whether it is
or not being the point in question), or else the intermediate psycho-
physical process must transform a vague willing into a directional
causing ; and since the intermediate process is at least something
to do with a department of the agent's mind, this second sugges-
tion is merely a variant of the first. In the series of processes we
call PK, there must at one stage be a process of a directional
nature and this must be a process to do with the agent and requir-
ing the possession of the relevant knowledge. Otherwise the
'force' or whatever it is that makes the die come to rest with a
certain face uppermost must be made directional independently
of the agent ; and if so, why have an agent at all? PK would then
be little less than an '
act of God'. All this need not mean that
the agent must have a detailed knowledge of the processes causing
the occurrence of the event willed. A person moving his arm
need have no knowledge of the physiological changes involved in
brain, nerves, and muscles ; all he needs to know is that the arm
must be moved in a certain direction. In the P K case, all I mean
to imply is that the agent must know what is to be affected and in
what way. The rest he leaves to the P K equivalents of nerves and
muscles.
To sum up ;
my conclusion is that this problem is incapable of
experimental solution, but that it is clear from theoretical argu-
ment that P K must be guided by knowledge, acquired, probably,
paranormally.
I wish to thank Mr C. W. K. Mundle for clearing up some
misconceptions concerning his suggested experiment mentioned
above, and for initiating trains of thought leading me to the idea
expressed in this letter.
Michael C. Perry
536 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [nov.
THE FRAUDULENT MEDIUMS ACT, 1951
This Act (14 & 15 Geo. 6., Ch. 33) was given the Royal Assent
on 22 June 1951. It is described in its preamble as 'An Act to
repeal the Witchcraft Act, 1735, and to make, in substitution for
certain provisions of section four of the Vagrancy Act, 1824,
express provision for the punishment of persons who fraudulently
purport to act as spiritualistic mediums or to exercise powers of
telepathy, clairvoyance or other similar powers.'
The only difference between the text of the Act and that of the
Bill (printed in the ^owrwa/ for January-February 1951, pp. 370-1)
is in the wording of subsection (2) of clause i, which now reads
as follows :
(2) A person shall not be convicted of an offence under the foregoing
subsection unless it is proved that he acted for reward ; and for the
purposes of this section a person shall be deemed to act for reward if
any money is paid, or other valuable thing given, in respect of what he
does, whether to him or to any other person.
THE PERROTT STUDENTSHIP
The Perrott Studentship in Psychical Research at Trinity
College, Cambridge, has been awarded to Mr G. Spencer Brown.
He will work under the direction of Dr R. H. Thouless during
his tenure of the Studentship.
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
Society for Psychical Research
31 Tavistock Square • London •
WCi
SUPPLEMENT
TO
JOURNAL
Volume XXXVI No. 667 November-December 195
1
FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES
EXPERIMENTS IN THE ELECTRO-
ENCEPHALOGRAPHY OF MEDIUMISTIC TRANCE
On 20 and 21 September two experiments were carried out in the
Society's seance room in which E. E. G. records were made of Mrs
Eileen Garrett's trance state. A report will be published in due course,
but the Council would like to take this opportunity of recording their
indebtedness to Mrs Garrett, without whose co-operation, unhesitat-
ingly given, the experiments would not have been possible. They also
wish to express their gratitude to Dr C. C. Evans, head of the Depart-
ment of Electro-Physiology at Belmont Hospital, Sutton, and to Dr
E. B. Strauss, Physician for Psychological Medicine at St Bartholomew's
Hospital, London, for their part in the experiments, and to Mr F. Wilson,
electro-physiologist of the Edison Swan Electrical Company for making
available an 8-channel E.E.G. and analyser and for the great amount of
time which he devoted to the installation and running of the equipment.
DR ALICE BUCK'S VISIT TO DUKE
UNIVERSITY
Dr Alice E. Buck, a member of the Society, has been awarded a Full-
bright Travel Grant to enable her to visit Duke University for the
purpose of studying the relationship of parapsychology and psychiatry
with Dr J. B. Rhine.
OBITUARY
Miss Hermione Ramsden and Mr J. Arthur Hill
We regret to record the deaths of two very old members of the Society.
Miss Hermione Ramsden joined the Society in 1897. Between 1905
ii Supplement to Journal, November-December, 195
1
and 1907 she took part as percipient in several long-distance telepathy
experiments in which Miss Clarissa Miles was the agent, and which are
reported in Vols. XXI and XXVII of Proceedings. During the experi-
ments Miss Ramsden was either at her home at Gerrard's Cross or in
the Scottish highlands or in Yorkshire, while Miss Miles was in London
or Belgium or the north of France. For several years she made her
home in Norway and was an active member of the Norwegian S.P.R.
Mr J. Arthur Hill joined the Society in 1905 and took part in various
mediumistic and experimental investigations. He was the author of
several books, including New Evidences in Psychical Research (191 1),
Spiritualism: its Plistory, Phenomena and Doctrine (191 8), znd Experi-
ences zvith Mediums (1934). In a foreword to his Letters from Sir Oliver
Lodge (1932) Lodge wrote that Hill had oifered to help him with his
psychic correspondence a quarter of a century back, when it was
beginning to be heavy, and since then he had acted 'as a sort of amateur
private secretary'. He was a member of the Council from 1927 to 1936,
when he resigned owing to ill-health and failing eyesight. At the time
of his death he had been for more than thirty years an Hon. Associate.
OBITUARY
B. Abdy Collins
'
B. Abdy Collins, CLE., a well-known member of the S.P.R. , died on
22 October after undergoing the ordeal of a leg amputation two months
earlier.
Mr Collins had a distinguished career in the Indian Civil Service,
holding the post of Education Secretary, Bihar and Orissa (1922—6) and
Director-General of Commerce and Industry, Hyderabad State (1927-33).
He joined the Society in 1939, and became well known through his
activities in the spiritualist field and as Managing Director of the London
Spiritualist weekly Psychic Neivs. He contributed a paper to Proceedings,
entitled 'Is proof of survival possible?' (Vol. 46, 1940), and was author of
many books, pamphlets, and articles in the spiritualist press.
Psychical research implies a critical approach to the phenomena of
spiritualism, but in spite of the judicial character of much of his career
in India, and a careful study of S.P.R. literature, his own approach to
the phenomena was one of childlike faith and, as it seemed to many
investigators, one of extreme na'ivete. Indeed, he accepted the accounts
of seances, direct voice, materializations and the like which are weekly
features of Psychic Nezvs not as phenomena of probable abnormal psychol-
ogy or subliminal motivation (to leave out the rarer cases of fraud), but
at their face value, with a readiness surprising to those with practical
experience of investigations in this field. Yet his attitude had its roots,
I think, in a conviction that this subject was of such crucial importance
to human life and behaviour that it behoved one to make up one's mind
on the major issue, to answer 'Yes' or 'No' to the best evidence for
survival and a world beyond that recognized by today's science, and then
to stride boldly forward, refusing to be hampered by close examination
of matters unlikely to be satisfactorily resolved in this generation.
Whatever may be thought of such a rough and ready approach, no one
Supplement to Journal, November-December, 1951 iii
who knew Abdy Collins well had other than esteem and affection for him
as a man of outstanding sincerity, of entire integrity, and of unfailing
friendliness and courtesy towards those who did not share his views.
K. M. G.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
467th 25 May 1 95 1 Chairman : G. N, M. Tyrrell.
468th 5 Sept. 1 95 1 Chairman : The President, Dr S. G. Seal.
MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY
241st Thursday, 24 May 1951, at 6.30 p.m. Dr Alice E. Buck;
'Spontaneous Phenomena in Modem Psycho-analytic Tech-
nique.'
242nd Thursday, 14 June 1951, at 6.30 p.m. John Addey :
'Astrology.'
243rd Thursday, 5 July 195 1, at 6.30 p.m. Phoebe Payne :
'Seeing Apparitions.'
244th Thursday, 27 September 195 1, at 6.30 p.m. Dr S. G. Soal on
his recent visit to Duke University.
245th Thursday, 11 October 195 1, at 6.30 p.m. Matthew Mackay :
'Psychical Experiences in Central Africa.'
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 25 May 1951)
Fox, Miss J., 11 Bisham Gardens, Highgate Village, London, N. 6.
Mitchell, A. M. J., 13 Weymans Avenue, Kinson, Bournemouth.
{Elected 5 September 195 1)
Adams, Mrs M., 5A Buckingham Mansions, West End Lane, London,
N.W. 6.
Alderson, T., B.Sc, 322 Burnley Road, Waterfoot, Rossendale, Lanes.
Brown, H. R., i6ie Fulham Court, Walham Green, London, S.W. 6.
Greenwood, The Viscountess, D.B.E., 5 Grosvenor Place, London,
S.W. I.
Hall, Mrs J. M. C, ia Drayton Court, Drayton Gardens, London,
S.W. 10.
Hawes, W. O., 69 Cotton Lane, Moseley, Birmingham, 13.
Johns, E. G., Rossendale, New Road, Parley Cross, Wimborne, Dorset.
Lenk, Czeslaw, M.B., Ch.B., Stracathro Hospital, Brechin, Angus.
Leonard, Miss Margaret, id Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Parrott, Professor Ian, M.A., D.Mus.Oxon., Edgecombe, Penglais
Road, Aberystwyth, Cards.
Samuel, Miss Viva R., Gold Hill Lodge, Farnham, Surrey.
iv Supplement to Journal, November-December, 195
1
Stephenson, S. R., 3 Market Place, Morpeth, Northumberland.
Webb, The Rev. G. C. N., The Parsonage, Southwick, Hants.
WooLCOCK, C.E., M.Sc, c/o P.O. Box 150, Portland, Victoria,
Australia.
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GL.\SGOW
JOURNAL
of the
Society for Psychical Research
Volume XXXVI No. 668 January-February 1952
'THE EXTENSION OF MIND': COMMENTS
ON DR J. R. SMYTHIES'S PAPER
I
By H. H. Price
Philosophical readers of Dr J. R. Smythies's very interesting and
provocative paper on 'The Extension' of Mind' in the September
1 95 1 issue of this Journal can hardly fail to feel uneasy about some
of his contentions ; and in this note I propose to mention some of
the difficulties which are likely to occur to them. But I should like
to say at once that these difficulties must not be taken too seriously.
If Dr Smythies's thtovy turns out to be an effective tool of research,
by all means let us use it as such, whatever epistemological diffi-
culties there may be in it. He claims himself, in the last sentence
of his_ paper, that the theory 'suggests a series of experimental
investigations not only for parapsychology but also for physics'
(p. 502). _
If he is right, let us get on with these experimental
investigations. The epistemological mess can be cleared up after-
wards.
In any case, I suspect that the most important and valuable part
of his theory is logically independent of the epistemological
doctrines which I shall criticise presently. If they are false, it
might still be true that there is a psyche or psychical mechanism
distinct both from the self and from the brain ; that this psychical
mechanism is spatially extended ; and that the space in which it is
extended is distinct from physical space, but included along with
physical space in a single seven-dimensional manifold. It is true
that this idea of a spatially extended psychical mechanism is not
wholly original. The Sankhya philosophers of ancient India sug-
gested something very like it some 2,500 years ago. They held
that the mind, as opposed to the Self or 'Witness', is an extended
and material entity, different from the physical organism. But, of
course, they did not have the technical resources of modern g'eo-
^ 537
538 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JAN.
metry at their disposal, as Dr Smythies has. It may well be that
this has enabled him to reformulate an ancient idea in a novel and]
experimentally-testable form.
After these prefatory remarks, designed to warn the reader
against taking my criticisms too seriously, I proceed to mention
one or two difficulties which I find in Dr Smythies's theory as it
stands.
The first concerns the status which he assigns to the human
nervous system ('signalling mechanism') or rather to our know-
ledge about it. The science of neurophysiology appears to have
a privileged and almost sacrosanct position in his theory. The
trouble, of course, is that human sense-organs and nervous sys-
tems are themselves parts of the physical world. But, according
to the theory, no scientist, no matter who he is, has any direct
access to the physical world ; and in this respect physiologists are
no better off than other people. All that any scientist can directly
observe is his own perceptual world. Thysical space and physical
objects are in fact hypotheses, as we can never observe them
directly' (p. 485 adfin.). But then the human nervous system and
its signalling mechanism is itself only a hypothesis. Or can it be
that physiologists, at any rate in their working hours, are entitled
to accept the Naive Realist TNS theory, though nobody else is
entitled to accept it? Do they have a direct access to the physical
world itself, which nobody else has.? I am sure that Dr Smythies
would not seriously say so. In other places he carefully dis-
tinguishes between the perceived body and the physical body. Yet
when he is writing about neurophysiology he seems to forget this
distinction. He writes as if physiologists were directly aware of
the physical bodies of other human beings. And if after all they
are not, if they can only study their own percepts, and all the
detailed information they give us about the structure and working
of physical nervous systems is only a set of hypotheses, how are
these hypotheses arrived at, and how are they justified?
I have said that human sense-organs and nervous systems are
themselves part of the physical world, and most people would
agree that this proposition is not only true, but platitudinously
true. Yet there are passages when Dr Smythies seems to deny
this platitude, by implication at least. He says more than once
that the 'signalling mechanism' of the nervous system is between
the physical world and the perceptual world (cf. p. 489). The
word 'between' implies that the signalling mechanism itself be-
longs to neither of these worlds. This might be said of the
psychical part of the signalling mechanism, though doubtfully,
since we are told elsewhere (p. 492) that it is located in the space
OE
ti(
sti
1952] 'The Extension of Mind'' : Comments on Dr Smythies's Paper 539
of the perceptual world. But it plainly cannot be said of the
physiological part, which is certainly in the physical world if any-
thing is. If the word 'between' is to be used, the physiological
part of the mechanism is between one part of the physical world
and another, e.g. between environmental objects outside the
percipient's skin, and his cerebral cortex which is inside it. And
despite this betweenness, or rather because of it, it is itself as
physical as the wires 'between' an electric light bulb and an electric
battery.
I am not of course suggesting for a moment that we ought to go
back to the TNS theory of 'common sense' ; and I agree with Dr
Smythies that Professor Ryle and other philsophers of his school
are much too common-sensical in this respect. I am only suggest-
ing that the difficulties which arise when the TNS theory is
rejected should be fairly and squarely faced, and complaining (I
hope not unjustly) that Dr Smythies has not faced them. To put
it crudely, it seems that the physical world (including those parts
of it which neurophysiologists investigate) is something less than
an object of direct awareness, but at the same time something
more than a mere hypothesis.
I now turn to another difficulty, or perhaps another aspect of
the same one. There is a curious passage on page 496 about the
barrier which prevents the experimenter from entering mind's
private world, and I think that Dr Smythies himself attaches con-
siderable importance to it. The experimenter, he says, cannot
enter mind's private world 'not because it does not exist, but be-
cause of the barrier presented by a dimensional interface' (cf. also
p. 500 ad fin. and p. 502). Here it looks at first sight as if the
experimenter must be observing the physical world : for the
dimensional interface, it would seem, is between the physical
world and the perceptual world, both of them being included in
one seven-dimensional continuum. If that is the right interpreta-
tion, the difficult is the one already mentioned, that scientists who
study the signalling mechanism somehow have a direct access to
the physical world which other people lack.
But another interpretation is possible. Perhaps this dimensional
interface, 'the most impenetrable of all barriers' (p. 500), is not
between the physical world and the perceptual world, but be-
tween two perceptual worlds—the perceptual world of the experi-
I
menter and the perceptual world of the other percipient whom he is
investigating. This would be consistent with what Dr Smythies
insists on elsewhere, that his own percepts are the only entities
which an experimenter (or anyone else) can directly observe. But
in that case Dr Smythies's total universe, including both percepts
540 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
and physical objects, must be far more complicated than he wants
it to be. Seven dimensions will be far too few. We shall need
dimensional interfaces not merely between the physical world and
'the' perceptual world, but between the physical world and each
perceptual world ; and there will be as many perceptual worlds
—
and perceptual spaces—as there are percipients. Not only so.
We shall also need dimensional interfaces between each perceptual
world and every other perceptual world ; for instance, between
your perceptual world and mine, if you are the experimenter and
I am the person experimented upon.
To put it another way, it would seem that on Dr Smythies's
assumptions there is no such thing as 'the' perceptual world at all,
though there is such a thing as 'the' physical world, or at any rate
we may entertain the hypothesis that there is. It would seem that
there must be many perceptual worlds, and many perceptual
spaces, each of them private to the percipient who perceives it.
And as for the physical world, it is not exactly public either, though
it could be called neutral as between all the different percipients.
To call it public would suggest that it is observed by all of them, as
the ordinary man, of course, believes that it is ; but on Dr
Smythies's assumptions it cannot be, because it is not observed at
all.
This privacy of perceptual worlds makes it very difficult for
Dr Smythies, as for Berkeley, to explain how different percipients
can communicate with one another, or indeed how one percipient
can learn, or even suspect, that other percipients exist. Like
Berkeley, he seems to be in grave danger of Solipsism. I think it
is incumbent on him to explain how a pubhc perceptual world
('the' perceptual world) extended in a public perceptual space, is
constructed, or postulated, when each of us has direct access
only to his own private one. Or does each of us first arrive at the
hypothesis of a physical world (however he justifies it) and then
proceed from this to the further hypothesis that there are other
perceptual worlds correlated somehow with his own? Whatever
the right answer is, this problem of the privacy of perceptual
worlds and perceptual spaces should surely be looked into.
Incidentally, there is some difficulty in understanding how even
one person's private perceptual space is constructed. If we stick
to the bare data, it would appear that visual space and tactual
space are different. Before I can be aware of perceptual space,
even a private one, I must somehow correlate the two.
Moreover, Dr Smythies's treatment of the space of mental
images (p. 486) seems to be much too simple. It is true that there
are 'projected' mental images, and there are eidetic images. No
doubt we can find room for these in perceptual space, or at least in
1952] 'The Extension of Mind' : Comments on Dr Stnythies's Paper 541
visual space. (Dr Smythies's imaged lines sketched 'round the
objects of our perceptions' seem to be a special sort of projected
visual images.) But there are many visual images which are
neither projected nor eidetic. They certainly have spatial
properties, but they seem to be 'in a space of their own', which is
neither perceptual space nor physical space. The same is true of
at any rate some visual hallucinations (when the percipient's entire
visual field is hallucinatory, and not merely a part of it). And
what about dream images.'' Dr Smythies has not mentioned them
at all. Yet it is quite plain that no student of telepathy and
precognition can afford to neglect them, even if others can.
Dream images, too, seem to be located 'in a space of their own' ;
moreover, even if we confine ourselves to the experiences of a
single dreamer, there are no discernible spatial relations between
the dream image I have tonight and those I had yesterday night.
It would seem, then, that Dr Smythies's theory of space,
ingenious as it is, is much too neat and tidy. But here I would
venture to remind the reader of what was said in the second para-
graph of these notes. I would suggest that the most fruitful and
original part of his theory is the part concerning the psychical
mechanism, and I do not believe it was necessary for him to go into
the problems of perceptual space at all. By all means let us care-
fully consider his hypothesis that there is a spatially extended
psychical mechanism. And in so doing, let us carefully consider
his very helpful suggestion that the space in which it is located is
not physical space but another one, separated from physical space
by a 'dimensional interface', and included along with physical
space in a total seven-dimensional continuum. But granting that
the psychical mechanism is not in physical space, does it follow
that it is in perceptual space, as Dr Smythies seems to say on p.
492, sub-paragraph (v)? Not in the least, and the suggestion is
most unplausible. For if it were true, one would think that every
percipient ought to be able to perceive his own physical mechan-
ism, since after all it would be somewhere or other in his per-
ceptual world ; and notoriously no percipient is able to do this.
Of course, Dr Smythies can maintain that the psychical mechanism
is the proximate cause of our percepts and therefore of their
spatial properties, since it is the last link in the causal chain by
which they are generated. But it will not follow from this that it is
spatially related to the percepts which it causes.
There are many other points in Dr Smythies's paper which call
for comment, for instance his 'like to like' theory of causation (pp.
493' 500) 3nd his very surprising estimate of the philosophy of
Descartes (pp. 492-3). I will mention only one, because it seems
to be crucial for the understanding of his theory. At the top of
A2
542 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan .
page 488 he says we must postulate that 'minute physical forces
cross the interface in either direction' (my itaUcs) and identifies
these forces with Wk and fy. If I understand his theory rightly
the word 'physical' here is just the wrong one. For surely these
forces are not confined to the physical part of the seven-dimensional
continuum ;
they belong in a way to both parts at once, and indeed
that is the whole point of postulating them. If they were just
physical, they could not cross the interface. A few lines below he
calls them 'trans-dimensional physical forces'. It seems to me that
'trans-dimensional' is the right adjective, but 'physical' is the
wrong one.
II
By Robert H. Thouless
One of the most obvious needs of parapsychology is the formula-
tion of hypothetical systems which will lead to expectations that
can be tested by experiment. In judging any suggestion that may
be made, the first question to be asked is not whether it is true or
false but whether it is likely to be experimentally fruitful. Dr
Smythies's ingenious speculation seems to offer good hope of
proving fruitful in suggesting directions of experimental inquiry.
It seems to me, therefore, to be deserving of a welcome. The first
welcome we can give it is by discussing it, but the best tribute we
can pay it in the end is to test its expectations experimentally.
I agree with Dr Smythies that the first thing to get out of our
minds is what he calls the 'transparent nervous system' theory.
The name is new, but the inadequacies of the theory have been
obvious to experimental psychologists for many years now. I have
criticised it in my own lectures under the name of the 'transmission
theory', and it is very much what Kohler means by the 'constancy
hypothesis'. For this reason, experimental psychologists have
given up the use of the term 'sensation' as the name for an element
of experience, and they talk rather of 'sensory cues' implying that
what happens to a sense-organ is not transmitted as such to
consciousness but acts as a signal or cue to set off an appropriate
perceptual response.
I am not sure that Dr Smythies is always just in regarding the
passages he has quoted from Einstein and others as necessarily
implying the TNS theory. I think they could be otherwise
interpreted. Whether it is so or not, however, the TNS theory is
taken for granted by most physicists and old-fashioned physiolo-
gists and is probably part of the unexamined structure of what is
taken for granted in the mind of the man in the street. And it
1952] 'The Extension of Mind' : Conmients on Dr Smythies's Paper 543
must be got rid of if we are to begin to talk sense about the per-
ception of the world around us.
The main novel point of Dr Smythies's theory is, as I under-
stand it, that one can represent the relationship between physical
space, time, and psychical space, as a seven-dimensional system
with one dimension for time and three each for the two space sys-
tems. I am not sure whether he would accept my phrase 'one can
represent' ; it is intended to imply that this is a way of looking at
these things, not a fact that can be extracted from them. Further-
more, he contends that if we use this conceptual system many of the
difficulties both of paranormal psychology and of the 'mind-body
problem' of normal psychology disappear. This is an idea which
seems to promise well as a guide to experimental inquiry. Its test
as a fruitful hypothesis must be whether it proves possible by its
means to pose questions sufficiently precisely to make them veri-
fiable by the method of experimental test.
Ill
By C. W. K. Mundle
I SHALL discuss two features of Dr Smythies's stimulating paper
'The Extension of Mind', the first being the theory of perception
which he adopts as his starting point. This is what philosophers
call 'the representative theory of perception', and it is nowadays
widely regarded by them as untenable. Dr Smythies dismisses as
a fallacy the common-sense view, which is usually labelled by
philosophers 'Naive Realism' or 'Direct Realism', and is re-
christened by Dr Smythies 'ttie TNS (transparent nen^ous sys-
tem) fallacy'. Regarding the common-sense view
—'thinking we
are looking at the physical world directly'—Dr Smythies says 'we
are no longer allowed to do this by neurophysiology' (p. 485). I
suggest, however, that he is mistaken in thinking that the dis-
coveries of physiologists have demonstrated the falsity of the
common-sense view. He seems to take for granted a certain
theory about the function of such trains of events as light-waves
impinging on a retina, followed by processes in the optical nerve
and the brain. He assumes that their function must be to create
private mind-dependent entities
—'objects in perceptual space' (or
'sense-fields', to use a philosophers' term). But their function
may, for all the physiologists can show, be quite different ; it may
be selective rather than creative, i.e. their function may be to
direct one's attention to this rather than that part or feature of the
public physical world, to put us, so to speak, in 'direct contact'
with objects which are not mind-dependent The selective
544 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
interpretation is certainly not without its difficulties (see, for
example, Professor Broad's discussion in Scientific Thought, p. 523
et seq). But Dr Smythies does not seem to be fully aware of the
formidable difficulties of the representative theory. The basic
difficulty is that if we maintain, like Dr Smythies, that we can
only observe 'objects in perceptual space' (or private sense-fields)
how do we, how could we, verify the existence of physical objects
in physical space. Sometimes Dr Smythies seems to be acknow-
ledging this difficulty, as when he says 'Physical space and physical
objects are in fact hypotheses, as we can never observe them
directly' (p. 485). But frequently he speaks, as he is not entitled to,
as if we know facts about physical space. He assumes, for example,
that we know that the observed relations within sense-fields are
faithful reproductions of their physical causes (see pp. 486-8).
I have been making what is a stock criticism of the representa-
tive theory of perception. Locke's version of this theory was
criticised on such lines by Berkeley, who realized that if Locke
were right in holding that one is only acquainted with mind-
dependent entities, then it is an arbitrary and unnecessary hypo-
thesis to assume physical objects as the causes of our sensations.
It is simpler and more intelligible, Berkeley concluded, to assume
that all our sensations are produced directly by God.
I am certainly not suggesting, however, that Dr Smythies's
theory should be rejected out of hand because it is based on the
representation theory of perception. We should be obliged to
reconsider the case for the representative theory if Dr Smythies's
theory of mind proved more successful than any of its rivals in
reconciling psi phenomena with what is known about normal
perception. And certainly the rival theories which Dr Smythies
considers (Descartes' and Ryle's) s'eem to contribute little to this
end. Professor Ryle's approach, in making Common Sense the
final court of appeal and in seeking to dispense with private mental
occurrences, seems likely to resolve our problem only by inducing
us to forget that psi phenomena demand some explanation.
What I want to discuss next is the way in which Dr Smythies's
theory is supposed to help us to explain psi phenomena. I do not
find Dr Smythies's paper very explicit on this point. I shall take
it that the main puzzle about psi phenomena is that they apparently
involve 'action at a distance' (i.e. causal dependence between events
separated by a spatio-temporal gap, not attributable to a chain of
intervening events). How does Dr Smythies's theory help us
here? According to his theory both the physical world and a
mind are four-dimensional, having only one dimension (time) in
common. A mind is supposed to comprise its sense-fields (or
perceptual objects), and as these are extended in three spatial
1952] 'The Extension of Mind' : Comments on Dr Smythies' s Paper 545
dimensions, a mind is said to be material (though not physical).
The feature of Dr Smj^thies's theory which I find most difficult to
understand concerns the relationship which is supposed to exist
between
{a) the trio ^ of dimensions belonging only to sense-fields, and
{b) the trio of dimensions belonging only to the physical world.
Some of Dr Smythies's statements suggest that there are spatial
relations between {a) and {b), as when he says 'the differentiation
of psyche from brain should be made on the basis of different
geographical location (p. 495 ; his italics) ;
and again when he
speaks of ¥^7 and Wk as 'minute trans-dimensional physical
forces' (p. 488 ;
my italics). But judging by what he says on
page 492, Dr Smythies wishes to deny that there are any spatial
('topological') relations between {a) and (b). (And this seems an
intelligible view, for we would, I think, deny that there are any
spatial relations between the space belonging to the contents of
a dream and perceptual space.) On this interpretation, Dr
Smythies could, I think, claim that our problem concerning action
at a distance evaporates. For his theory would imply that it is
meaningless to speak of a distance (a spatial or spatio-temporal
gap) between any mental event and any physical event ; and all
cases of psi phenomena could, I think, be interpreted as involving
one or more transactions between mental and physical events.
There is, however, a serious snag. For this theory would leave
us with an apparently insoluble puzzle concerning normal pheno-
mena. If there are no spatial relations between a person's sense-
fields and his physical body, why, under normal circumstances,
should a mind directly alTect (and be directly affected by) one and
only one segment of the physical world—the brain of the body
which it 'animates'.? It seems to me that, on this interpretation,
Dr Smythies's theory would remove our main puzzle about the
paranormal only at the cost of making the normal inexplicable. I
do not know whether Dr Smythies has considered his theory
from this angle. If he has, I think he was dismissing it too lightly
when he said 'Wy and ... are normally focussed upon the
brain, but have a "penumbra" which would be responsible for
ESP and PK' (p. 490).
Dr Smythies may feel that I have been wantonly ignoring what
he says in his final summing-up—'The three dimensions com-
prising the manifold of mental position (perceptual space) are at
right angles to the four dimensions of physical space-time' (p. 501).
I find it very difficult, however, to see what could be meant by
speaking of spatial manifolds being 'at right angles to' each other.
^ Or should I say 'trios' ? Does each mind have a different trio of space-
dimensions?
54^ Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
This is presumably due solely to my mathematical incompetence ;
but I still want to ask those who find this theory clear whether it
can explain the intimate relations which exist between our minds
and our bodies.
IV
By C. C. Stevens
In his opening paragraph Dr Smythies writes :
The following important fact has been established by experiment.
The mind is able to abstract information from its present and future
environment without the use of any of the recognized channels of sense.
Unfortunately for the argument advanced, no jot of evidence
requires observed phenomena to be described as entaihng the
existence of 'mind'. If Dr Smythies is satisfied with the implica-
tions of his statement on p. 478 that 'Nothing resembling trans-
mitting apparatus has been found in the brain', then he should
also recognize that nothing resembling 'mind' has ever been found
anywhere.
One can agree with much that he says, particularly (p. 500) :
(i) That the psyche is merely a noun descriptive of certain complex
. . . processes in the brain. ... We can say all that we wish to say
without using the word at all.
It is remarkable that Dr Smythies makes no further reference to
this theory. He quotes a second theory and expands on its
deficiencies but is silent about this one. Such behaviour bears all
the marks of an unconscious assumption. Like so many other
psychical researchers and innumerable ancestors and contempor-
aries, Dr Smythies has assumed, unconsciously and therefore
involuntarily, there must be a 'mind' around the place somewhere.
The presence of the term in the language he learned in his cradle
is sufficient to inculcate the assumption surreptitiously, and its
adoption is confirmed and made a fixed habit by subsequent con-
versation with others also in its grip. Once the existence of 'mind'
is postulated, then the difficulties and confusions hsted so ex-
haustively by Dr Smythies necessarily follow. On that postulate,
of course 'mind' must have some extension or 'whereness' ; of
course, it may be distinguished from brain 'on the basis of dilTer-
ent geographical location' ; of course, it is reasonable to regard
the brain then as 'but a station on the way to the soul'. If you
assume, without knowing you are doing so, that every game in-
cludes scoring runs, your interpretation of a tennis tournament
will be confused, to put it mildly. As long as you continue to be
unaware of your assumption and of its effects on your interpreta-
1952] 'The Extension of Mind' : Comments on Dr Smythies s Paper 547
tion of every aspect you observe in the match, so long will you
automatically think tennis-players should see the folly of their
ways and that it was time the rules were altered. Dr Smythies's
remarks about the Crisis in Knowledge and the Crisis in Physics
follow from his assumption, but not from anything else.
Though Dr Smythies is in excellent company, in my view the
situation is the more deplorable. He writes (p. 500):
As this theory [No. (ii)] has been in the field for as long as history has
been recorded, there does not seem to be much hope. . . .
I regard this remark as apposite to all theories erected on a
postulated, and hitherto undetected, 'mind'. It is not generally
recognized that the theory (i) quoted above represents, not merely
a relation between 'mind' ( = psyche) and brain, but a new
epistemology, a new recognition of the relations between three
distinguishable states, viz. {a) the world around us, {b) our ex-
perience of it, and {c) what we say about our experience. In the
traditional epistemology these three have been either (i) identified,
e.g. 'I'm telling you exactly what happened', no distinction being
made, or (2) regarded as in one-to-one correspondence with each
other, e.g. Out there is a pebble,,, inside my skin is my cognition^
of the pebblca {a:b = i : i) and I can say [That is a pebble],, my
remark, being apparently related one-to-one to my experience;,
(a : b : c=i : 1). The slightest acquaintance with nervous system
function renders this view untenable and in its place is required a
new epistemology postulating, not one-to-one, but many-to-one
relations between a, b and c. When this was adopted, whether
consciously or unconsciously, new theories became possible, in
physics, biology, communication, neuropsychiatry, etc., but such
new theories admittedly cannot be made sense of, or understood,
by anyone still employing—as a matter of unconscious habit
—
the ancient epistemology we have inherited from Neanderthal Man.
There is no reason why the new epistemology should not also
be used to formulate new and more effective theories of psi pheno-
mena, provided that psychical researchers will train themselves in
the novel and largely unfamiliar technique.
V
'
By Antony G. N. Flew
'~
'
A
'The mind is able to abstract information from its present and
future environment without the use of any of the recognized
channels of sense' (p. 477). Rightly Stevens ^ picks out this sen-
^ Mr Stevens sent a copy of his comments to Mr Flew.
—
Ed.
548 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
tence as crucial. It is supposed to express a 'fact . . . established
by experiment '
(p. 477). And indeed so it does : but only pro-
vided that it is interpreted as equivalent to the statement that
some people have ESP capacity. But if it is to be interpreted (and
this must surely be hov.' Smythies means it : or else why does he
think that psychical research is relevant to his theory?) in a
different way, as stating that 'the psyche ... a potentially inde-
pendent agent ... in control of the brain' (p. 500) picks up this
information it most certainly does not express a fact, experiment-
ally established. Indeed it is hard to see how this fact—if fact it
be—ever could be established, if psyches—those putative so long
elusive objects—are really to be found only (as Smythies suggests)
'on the other side of the most impenetrable of all barriers, a
dimensional interface' (p. 500).
Clearly something is going wrong : and it is—as Stevens claims
—something quite fundamental to the entire theory. I suggest
that the trouble arises mainly from two mistakes : first, Smythies
misconstrues the word 'mind' and its associates ;
second, he con-
fuses enquiries about the meanings of words with investigations of
the facts about things.
There are in the English language (and indeed in innumerable
other languages) many picturesque and suggestive 'mind'-idioms.
We speak of Miss Helen Keller's achievement as a triumph of
mind over matter, of Sir Stafford Cripps as having an absolutely
first-class mind, and of the perfect co-ordination of body and mind
displayed by a ballerina. Such idioms suggest that the word
'mind' refers to an object, as does the word 'brain'. Though of
course to an unfindal3le object; whose elusiveness has to be
excused by explaining that it is invisible and immaterial, or con-
cealed behind a 'dimensional interface '. But this is a mistake.
'Mind' is not that sort of word : it is much more like the word
'temper' which
—
pace the Red Queen—does not denote an object
at all. The meaning of 'mind' expressions can be rendered
adequately into talk of the things which people can do and feel and
understand, talk which suggests no elusive objects. To say that a
man has a third-class mind is not to say that he possesses some
clandestine organ, unhappily rather defective ; but to say that his
academic ability is very slight. Disputes about such assertions are
settled—if they are settled at all—by examining his capacities ;
and not by investigating his problematical shadow anatomy. I
will not labour the point here ; for I have recently developed it
elsewhere ^ against Rhine ; and in any case Smythies also knows
his Ryle (cf. pp. 494 ff.). :
^ 'Minds and Mystifications' printed in the Listener, 27 September
1951-
1952]
'
The Extension of Mind' : Comments on Dr Smythies's Paper 549
Nevertheless it does seem that he fails fully to appreciate the
force and relevance of Rylean theses. For instance, he suggests
that Ryle's proceedings are arbitrary : writing of his 'defining
mind to mean a verbal cloak to cover such processes as thinking,
perceiving, feeling, etc' ; and conceding '
It is, of course, mean-
ingless to discuss whether the "mind" is extended or not if by
mind we mean what Ryle means by the word' (p. 493 : his in-
verted commas ; and lack of them). He also assumes (and for this
Ryle's mode of expression ^ is probably to blame) that Ryle is just
appealing to commonsense. But this is wrong. Ryle is not just
being arbitrary here : for he is using the word 'mind' in the ac-
cepted way. Nor is he here appealing primarily to common-
sense (which indeed is notoriously 'a most misleading guide' (p.
494) about the facts of nature). He is appealing—and this is a very
different matter—to common linguistic usage, as the standard of
correctness in speech. Neither is this trivial or irrelevant to the
present theory. For it is surely only by unwittingly slipping to
and fro between the ordinary and correct interpretation of 'mind'-
expressions (which he thinks of as an arbitrary invention of Ryle's)
and his peculiar and mistaken one (which he presumably takes to
be correct) that Smythies is able to persuade himself that the
ESP phenomena prove, or even tend to prove, that psyches, con-
ceived as potentially independent agents in control of the brain,
pick up information, or even exist at all. To put it crudely :
Smythies interprets the sentence quoted in our first paragraph in
one way—the correct way—when he is establishing that it ex-
presses an experimental fact ; but in a wholly different—and mis-
taken—way when he goes on, assured that it expresses a fact, to
erect his theoretical structure upon the alleged fact which it is now
supposed, wrongly, to state.^ It is unkind, but irresistibly
apposite, to quote his own warning that 'Confusion is caused by
the use of the words . . . "mind" and "psyche". These words have
several different meanings, and the confusion arises when deduc-
tions are drawn . . . when one of the other meanings of the words
is really intended' (p. 479).
We turn now to the second sort of mistake, the confusion of
problems of meaning with problems of fact. Smythies notices
^ In The Concept of Mind he often makes his points as if his business
were with the non-linguistic world rather than, as it is, with words or
concepts. His paper 'Systematically Misleading Expressions', reprinted
in my anthology Logic and Language (Oxford, Blackwell, 195 1) gives a
better idea of his method, and would be suggestive here.
^ This may also suggest why Rhine now seems unable to make up his
mind—in spite of his earlier certainty—whether parapsychology has as
yet experimentally established the existence of any sort of soul (cf. Tele-
pathy and Human Personality, passim.).
550 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
two theories of 'the possible nature of the psyche' (p. 500). But
the first is about the meaning of the word 'psyche' : while the
second is a speculation about the nature of psyches, the thing?
which the word 'psyche' is thought by some to denote. He thus
bundles together two radically different sorts of question. This
is all too easily done : for unfortunately both can be asked in the
same form of words 'What is (the nature of) (an or the) XV ;
which may express a question about the meaning of the word 'X';
or about the nature of the things, X's, which the word denotes.'
But it is essential to distinguish these two sorts of question :
which is perhaps best done by putting inverted commas round the
word when it is a word that is being mentioned (hence my petulant
parenthesis about Smythies's faulty inverted comma-ing). When
this distinction is made, it becomes clear first that questions about
the nature of the objects, psyches, can only arise if there are such
objects and, second, that the existence of these putative objects
is neither guaranteed by our ordinary significant use of 'mind'-
idioms nor yet established by the extraordinary discoveries of para-
psychology. Once it has been shown that neither of these gives
grounds for believing any such entities to exist, it is difficult to
justify further speculation about their possible nature and loca-
tion (cf., e.g., p. 500 at foot).
Another but much more subtle and complicated example of the
same sort of confusion can be found in the attack on 'the common-
sense fallacy of the TNS' (p. 494) : which consists in supposing
that 'the familiar world of perception is ... a direct view of the
physical world' (p. 480) ; and ignoring that we are all wholly
dependent for our knowledge of things on 'an extensive signalling
mechanism' (p. 481), the nervous system. This cannot be relied on
to be perfect, perfectly transparent as it were. It may be mechani-
cally defective : and its operations can at best permit us to put
forward the very existence of the world only as an hypothesis.
Smythies, following a great tradition, but adding all modern
technological sophistications, pictures our human cognitive
predicament on the analogy of 'the controller in the parent aero-
drome and a radio-controlled pilotless aircraft . . . fitted with
television cameras and other instruments. ... He observes all
that is taking place on the television screen, and attends to the
other information signalled back. ... he cannot see, and has never
seen, anything except the screen before him' (pp. 491-2). Many
if not most philosophers nowadays—Ryle certainly—reject totally
all such epistemological models. This rejection really is total :
they do not accept such models and then argue or assume that,
fortunately, the nervous system is transparent. Certainly the
mechanism is essential : perception could never occur without it.
1952] 'The Extension of Mind' : Comments on Dr Smythies's Paper 551
Certainly it may go wrong : and even when it is working with its
usual near-perfection it is still possible for us to make perceptual
mistakes (being, for example, deceived by optical illusions or
eidetic imagery). But neither of these facts has the slightest
tendency to show that we never really see anything (directly). We
do not look out on the world through this mechanism : the
mechanism is part of us. To explain why so many philosophers
now reject as fantasies all such ghost-in-the-machine models would
take us far too long.^ But it must at least be pointed out that this
rejection is not based either on invincible ignorance of discoveries
in neurophysiology or on a mere appeal to the notoriously fallible
pronouncements of commonsense. It rests rather on a constant
more or less explicit appeal to common and correct linguistic
usage. It is, for example, simply not correct to describe what we
should normally call a case of being able to see a tank (when, of
course, the suggestion that it is part of an insubstantial pageant or
is only an hallucination has been eliminated) as if it was not really
a case of being able to see a tank (directly) : no one in such a situa-
tion, if he modestly claims to be able to see a tank, is making any
reckless inferences to the forever unobservable ;
for this is
precisely the sort of thing which is meatit by the expression, 'I can
see a tank'. Neurophysiologists have much to teach us about the
mechanism without which perception could not happen : but they
do not and cannot prove that (direct) perception does not occur at
all. (In the only sense, that is, v/hich has so far been given to
'(direct) perception'—i.e. the everyday sense. If—as Smythies
maintains
—
(direct) perception does not occur, w^hat is it that he
means by 'perceiving directly'})
This treatment has necessarily been crudely skeletal and in-
adequate, presenting just two major objections in harsh and garish
outline : but to deal fairly and fully w^ith all the philosophical
issues raised would need several entire numbers of the Journal.
B
Yet even if we have been right in arguing that this paper is
radically misguided, much might be excused if it nevertheless held
out prospects of heuristic fertility. But I do not think that it is
even intended to olTer that sort of theory : the Summary sug-
gests that it is not, that its 'aim ... is to examine some . . . funda-
^ But it is perhaps worth mentioning some important papers in con-
temporary Anglo-Saxon epistemology : inmy Logic and Language, chapters
V (G. A. Paul) and VI (M. Macdonald), and in P. A. Schilpp's The
Philosophy of G. E. Moore the papers by J. Wisdom and N. Malcolm are
both reasonably accessible and extremely relevant. Papers by N. Mal-
colm in the American Philosophical Review are particularly apt to the
present physiological variant of this fantasy.
552 'Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
mental assumptions, and to suggest a series of alternative assump-
tions which give a more coherent account of the universe and the
place of conscious mind in it' (p. 477). This enterprise has, I
think, been unsuccessful. And partly, surely, because it is so
premature. It seems to me—as I have argued elsewhere—that
what we need at present in our subject is primarily and above all
more experiments and ideas for experiments. We must build up a
solid body of experimental fact : both by confirming through
repetition the work already done ; and by establishing new facts
and correlations. Then we shall surely find, as Dr Thouless
recently suggested, that 'Either the essential step in thought will
have become easy or at any rate the road will have become easy for
a future Einstein of parapsychology. Let us, then, do more
experiments' {this Journal, Vol. 35, No. 657, p. 210).
C
In two recent broadcasts ^ I poured scorn on philosophical
sensationalism in parapsychology and argued that it was a mistake
to think, with Rhine, that it had metaphysical implications. I
should like to take this chance of conceding that, while the errors
I tried to expose are indeed errors, the results of parapsychology
do have some implications which might be called metaphysical,
and that those who consider them philosophically sensational are
to that extent right. First, ESP while it may not formally contra-
dict any established laws or theories in natural science, does
certainly conflict with something more fundamental even than the
most basic of these. For it is incompatible with some of the
fundamental beliefs
—'absolute presuppositions' ^ if you like-
still almost universally shared even by contemporary scientists,
about the sort of thing which can happen and the sort of law
which can apply. These scientific beliefs can be modified by
reason and experience, and it is absolutely necessary to have some
such beliefs to guide research : so 'prejudices' is not the word for
them. Being concerned with the 'ultimate nature of reality' they
might well be dubbed 'metaphysical assumptions'. The great
Helmholz was expressing one such when he declared, 'Neither the
testimony of all the Fellows of the Royal Society, nor even the
evidence of my own senses could lead me to believe in the trans-
mission of thoughts from one person to another, independently of
the recognized channels of sensation.' ^ This basic belief now has
* Printed in the Listener for 27 September 195 1 and 4 October 1951.
^ Cf. R. G. Collingwood, An Essay on Metaphysics.
^ Quoted by Professor Michael Polanyi in his 'Scientific Beliefs' in
Ethics for October 1950. Though he would probably still not approve
this paragraph, I owe anything of value in it to his writings, his lectures,
and to discussions with him.
1952]
'
The Extension of Mind' : Comments on Dr Smythies's Paper 553
to be scrapped ; because ESP does occur. Second, as indeed I
suggested in my second talk, the scientific handling of ESP pheno-
mena may well call for some revision of, or innovation among, the
basic explanatory concepts. We may, for instance, here have to use
a new concept of 'cause', perhaps one revised along the lines sug-
gested by Mundle {Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, Supp.
Vol. XXIV, pp. 222 ff.). These two facts might well be said to
constitute metaphysical implications of ESP, and even to be
philosophically sensational.
VI
By C. T. K. Chari
The paper by Dr Smythies in the Journal for September-October
1 95 1 merits the most careful attention not only of physicists,
biologists, and psychologists, but also of philosophers. I am
afraid that philosophical opinion concerning psychical research
still lags behind the most informed British opinion. Dr T. M. P.
Mahadevan, Reader in Indian Philosophy at the University of
Madras, told some of us at a meeting that, during a recent tour of
the United States, he happened to mention Dr Rhine's work and
the S.P.R. in private conversation with some prominent philo-
sophers and evoked only 'peals of laughter'. I imagine that most
of these philosophers lack the candour of Dr Archie Bahm of the
University of New Mexico who, in a letter to me dated January 27,
1 95 1, said :
'. . . I am still distrustful of "parapsychology"
—
partty because I am not sufficiently familiar with its findings. . .
.'
After sketching a tentative theory of time, he added : 'It also
leaves open the possibilities involved in parapsychology'. I have
been busying myself for some time with a topological generaliza-
tion of the theories propounded by Dunne and Saltmarsh. A
crude outline of my hypothesis may appear in Mind. I should
like to say something here about the difficulties I have en-
countered in 'spatial' models of the universe designed to accommo-
date psi phenomena.
(i) Dr Smythies urges that his hypothesis offers a 'credible'
explanation of 'normal' and 'paranormal' facts (p. 500). Ought
we to accept 'credibility' or 'probability' as a criterion for evaluat-
ing the theories of psychical research? If we assume that the
uniformities established by orthodox physics, biology, and neuro-
physiology have a 'high probability'—just what the statement
means on the theories proposed by Kolmogorov, Doob, Feller,
Neyman, Cramer, von Mises, Reichenbach, Carnap, and Jeff'reys
is another question
—
no theory of psi phenomena sets out with
554 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JAN.
any 'high probability'. It has been conceded by the best authorities
on the subject that it demands a very drastic reconstruction of our
system of scientific expectations. But to be conceivable at all, the
new system of postulates that we erect must bear some analogy to
the existing framework. And if it does, will it go far enough to be
really serviceable in psychical research? How formidable is the
task of reconstruction may be judged with reference to the 'basic
limiting principles' that Professor Broad has formulated. ^ One of
them is that 'it is self-evidently impossible that an event should
begin to have any effects before it has happened'.^ I maintain
that any attempt to modify or reconstruct (and precognition leaves
us no option but to modify or reconstruct) a principle like this
necessitates a collateral epistemological inquiry into the 'limits of
conceivability'. So far as I am aware, only Mr Tyrrell has paid
serious attention to the problem. The perspectives that he has
unfolded in his Homo Faber ^ must be kept well in view in all our
attempts at theory-building. I shall return to this point at the end
of my letter.
(2) Dr Smythies makes a great deal of what he calls the 'TNS'
fallacy. I quite realize that to anybody who has much to do with
neuro-physiology Naive Realism must appear very naive indeed.
But is it necessarily fallacious? It seems to me that the hypothesis
proposed by Dr Smythies involves us in some at least of the diffi-
culties of the older epistemological dualism. How can we know
that 'events in our perceptual world follow faithfully the events in
the physical world' when the latter, ex hypothesi, are never directly
accessible? The analogy of the controller in the aerodrome and
the radio-controlled aircraft (p. 491) gives us no help here. Per-
haps Dr Smythies would like to appeal to the 'isomorphism' of
Gestalt psychology. But does it eliminate the epistemological
difficulty? I am not at all sure that we can afford to ignore the
ingenious reconstruction of Direct ReaHsm attempted by Captain
M. M. Moncrieff in his book The Clairvoyant Theory of Percep-
tion.^ Professor Price in commending the theory says : 'Perhaps
we shall no longer be obliged to suppose, as so many philosophers
have, that sense-data or sensa or sensation contents are the only
entities we are directly aware of in perception. ... It is curious
that an important and influential school of contemporary philo-
sophers has arrived at a very similar result in an entirely different
way, by using the methods of linguistic analysis developed by Dr
Wittgenstein'.^ I agree with Professor Price that Captain Mon-
crieff's rehabilitation of Direct Realism is worth while. The late
^ Philosophy, 1949, xxiv, 291-309.
^ London, Methuen, 1951.
^ Ibid., Foreword, p. 8.
^ Ibid., p. 293.
" London, Faber, 1951.
1952] 'The Extension of Mind' : Comments on Dr Smythies's Paper 555
Whately Carington, as is well known, argued that all material
bodies could be resolved without any remainder into fundamental
particulars which he christened 'cognita'. I believe that a theory
could be worked out along these lines without accepting the kind
of neutral monism or logical positivism to which Carington so
wholeheartedly committed himself in his later years. We have a
wide range of possibilities to explore, even the seeming meta-
physical lunacies. It is noteworthy that J. C. F. Z6llner,i who was
probably the first distinguished psychical researcher to adopt the
working hypothesis of a multi-dimensional space, held that it was
quite compatible with an extreme Mentalism or Berkeleism. He
conjectured that the 'representation of our whole real corporeal
world' (italics not mine) may have a status not dissimilar to that of
the 'hallucinations' evoked in the hypnotic and post-hypnotic
states. The 'parable' that Mr Tyrrell developed in his Grades of
Significance ^ may be far more significant than many of us imagine.
(3) Dr Smythies says (p. 502) that his hypothesis 'provides the
organization seemingly required by the activity of the "censor"
as described by Soal'. Possibly. But does it account for the
peculiar symbolism often associated with spontaneous psi pheno-
mena? My own extended investigation of a case involving osten-
sible paranormal cognition and ostensible para-physical pheno-
mena (telekinesis and apports) suggested symbolism of the weird-
est kind. I found strong indications that the 'spirit communica-
tors' who claimed to be responsible for the phenomena were com-
pound entities formed on the same lines as the 'dream figures' of
Freudian and Jungian psychology. My observations lend support
to the hypothesis advanced by Dr John Layard." The fact that the
cases cited by him came out poorly when judged by stringent
evidential standards does not rob them of their very great theo-
retical value.* My evidence (of better quality and obtained in an
intimate circle) argues for those queer creatures having 'one foot
in the world of reality and the other in a dream . . . worthy of the
maddest ideahsm' to which F. C. S. Schiller referred once.^ While
I quite approve of 'psi' as a non-committal omnibus term for 'para-
normal' phenomena, I am by no means convinced that it has a
great theoretical advantage over Myers's 'Subliminal' hypothesis.
I think it is as likely as not that a reformulation of his hypothesis,
perhaps in the language of a non-metricized dynamics of the kind
sketched by Kurt Lewin and his followers, will suggest fresh lines
^ Transcendental Physics (Eng. tr. with preface and appendices by C. C.
Massey, 3rd ed., Boston, Colby & Rich, 1884, pp. 150-3)-
2
2nd ed., London, Rider. ' Proc. S.P.R., I944- xlvii, 237-47.
* See Dr Wiesner's remarks, Proc. S.P.R., 1945, xlvii, 270-1.
5 Proc. S.P.R., 1922, xxxii, 145-6.
556 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
of experimental inquiry. We may say that a 'boundary' is some-
thing in crossing which the phenomena change their character.
Psychical research and modern 'depth psychology' suggest, at
least as a first generalization, that the empirical ego is a 'boundary'
in a complex 'psychological field'. We might adopt a term like
'praeter-conscious' as a generic term for all deep-lying or not
ordinarily introspectable mental processes. As we move away
from the empirical ego into the praeter-conscious, the laws of
orthodox scientific psychology become less and less relevant. By
a cautious interpolation and extrapolation we can posit praeter-
conscious processes starting with the behaviour data of experi-
mental psychical research. And 'spatialization' of a certain kind
is not precluded.
(4) As anybody who cares to read my article 'Time as Min-
kowski's Fourth Dimension' appearing in the 1952 Annual
(January) Number of the Indian Astrological Magazine ^
will see,
I am not a little suspicious of the attempts made by Dunne,
Ouspensky, G. C. Barnard, C. A. Richardson, and others to
extract from Relativity suggestions for a theory of precognition.
I demur to the sort of view Dr Smythies seems to imply when he
says (p. 484) that 'Einstein supposed there to be a four-dimensional
space-time continuum containing observers travelling through it'.
I do not see that this view is entailed by the mathematics of
Relativity, especially if we accept the interpretations put forward
by A. A. Robb and E. A. Milne.^ Even in psychical research, may
not time-relations be more fundamental than space-relations and
the latter a manifestation of the former.? I am trying to speculate
on the possibility.
(5) I turn to a fundamental issue. How far will the 'geometriza-
tion' of time take us? Following Professor Broad, » I shall speak
of the extensive, the relational, and the transitory characteristics
of time. All attempts to represent time as geometrical extension
and 'passage' as a 'travelling' through it entail a second series ex-
hibiting the irreversible relation of temporal before-after and the
transitory characteristics 'past', 'present', and 'future'. A three-
dimensional psyche 'travelling' along the fourth dimension of a
1 Edited and published by Dr B. V. Raman, Bangalore 3, South India ;
avadable at John M. Watkins, 21 Cecil Court, Charing Cross Road, Lon-
don, and the International News Co., 131 Varick Street, New York City.
Notwithstanding his 'occult' interests, Dr Raman has been recently
devotmg some space to the scientific and philosophical issues of psychical
research. See my article 'Fathoming the Deeps of Mind' in the 1951
Annual Number of the Magazine.
2 My article gives references and quotes Relativists in extenso.
Examination of McTaggarfs Philosophy (Cambridge, 1938), Vol. 11,
Part I, Ch. XXXV.
1952] Reply by Dr Smythies 557
physical space-time will generate relational and transitory charac-
teristics which cannot be assimilated to any or all of the seven
spatial dimensions postulated by Dr Smythies. This does not
mean, of course, that the 'spatialization' of time is worthless in
speculation on psychical research. But it does mean that the
topology of manifolds alone will not carry us far without qualita-
tively nezv ideas about 'transitoriness' or 'passage'. I believe that
Professor Broad, at the Joint Session of the Aristotelian Society
and the Mind Association in 1937,^ hinted at the need for such
notions when he made a distinction between the extra dimensions
of space postulated by Hinton and Dunne and extra dimensions of
time. There may be an unfamiliar time in which the distinction
between a 'past' and a 'present' is irrelevant but not the distinction
between a 'present' and a 'future'.
There is unquestionably an urgent need for theorizing of the
rigorous sort in psychical research. But 'rigour', in this domain,
may consist largely in discovering the 'limits of assertability'. The
muddles about 'survival', for instance, may be just muddles about
its 'assertability' in any ordinary language. My approach invites
comparison with Mr Tyrrell's. Dr Smythies does not deny, I
think, that there may be intrinsic limitations in all speculation on
psychical research. He speaks of a psychic mechanism of 'a
fabulous complexity, and in part employing principles of which we
know nothing' (p. 491). And he admits (p. 500) that 'The nature
of the Self remains inexplicable'.
Reply by Dr Smythies
I WILL try and answer Professor Price's comments first. His first
point (p. 538) centres round, I think, my use of the word hypothesis
which I used throughout my paper in a modified sense of the
rather special way in which Dingle employs it. Dingle uses it to
mean a pseudo-atom or pseudo-molecule, and gives as a familiar
example the planet Neptune between the time that its presence
was hypothecated to account for the irregularities in the motion
of Uranus and the time it was first seen. He regards hypotheses as
being 'potential experiences though they are not actual memories
or (in general) representatives. These are known as hypotheses. . . .
These pseudo-atoms may have all the definiteness and locability
of actual experiences, but they are neither memories or repre-
sentatives'. ^ Thus it would be logically possible to observe events
in the physical world directly if our witnessing Selves could
^ Proc. Arist. Soc, Supp. Vol. xvi (London, Harrison, 1937), p. 203.
^ Herbert Dingle, Through Science to Philosophy (London, Oxford
University Press, 1937), p. 165.
558 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
leave their place inside the head of the perceived body, cross the
dimensional interface, and then observe in physical space, ?/ Selves
could then react directly to light. Until someone does this they
remain strictly hypotheses (but not 'mere' hypotheses) from which
the witnesses are individually cut off by material and spatial
barriers, but which we observe indirectly by means of signalling
mechanisms.
We might extend Dingle's definition of hypotheses thus :
(i) To include the class of all physical objects which are only
indirectly observable via signaUing mechanisms. A sub-set of
this class comprises the set of hypotheses in Dingle's present sense.
These have not yet been indirectly observed, but their presence is
inferred to account for the indirectly observed behaviour of other
objects, and it is supposed that it will be possible to observe them
indirectly at some future date and under certain special conditions.
(ii) To include the class of all objects which (it seems probable)
will never be even indirectly observable in the nature of things, but
whose presence we infer to account for the correlation between
directly observed events (i.e. sense-data) and brain events. This
class includes the intermediate parts of those psychical mechan-
isms connecting the field of direct observation^ with the brain, the
events at the proximal surface of which mechanisms we inspect or
observe directly as sense-data.
We might term these hypotheses of the first, second, and third
degree (or term) respectively. Third degree hypotheses border on
postulates in Dingle's sense.
Taking Professor Price's next point (p. 538) I should have said in
this passage that the signalling mechanisms of the nervous system
and psychical system are between the observer and the outside
physical world. The afferent function of the nervous system may
be to fashion a mnemically organized model of the internal and
external environment to form the target for Wy.
I must apologize for my error, which Professor Price notes next,
in locating the psychical mechanisms in perceptual space. Only
the proximal surface of any such mechanisms, which actually
present sense-data, can be located in perceptual space. The rest
of the individual observer's own mechanism would then be
hidden from his own direct observation, just as the inside of a
television set is obscured by the screen. The whole of other
people's psychical mechanisms would then be outside his range of
^ I take perceptual space to be the spatial sense-field open to inspection
or direct observation. It is the space system in which sense-data are
extended. Would a better term for this system be inspectual space, since
it is the space system in which inspection (in Broad's sense) takes place?
If so, what I have called the perceived body would be known as the
inspected body.
igja] Reply by Dr Smythies 559
indirect observation hidden behind a dimensional interface, as his
own mechanisms would be hidden from their sight. Perceptual
space is strictly limited to the confines of the perceived body and
the visual screen demonstrated by after-images and the strobo-
scopic patterns, and to the limits of mental imagery and the 'there-
ness' of sounds. The rest of visual space may be illusory. The
unobser\'able volume of space in which perceptual space is em-
bedded might be called psychical space. These changes are
summarized in the revised postulates of the theory given on pp.
568-9 and answer to some extent, I hope, some of the difficulties
that Professor Price has raised. The theory might also be re-
garded as an extension of Henry More's doctrine of 'essential
spissitude'.
With regard to the point that Professor Price makes on page 540
(line 21), I did not mean to imply that the common physical world
is not observed at all, but that it is observed indirectly by means
of a signalling mechanism. Visual space, or rather that part which
is not illusory, and tactual space, which is the space occupied by
the perceived body, are different locations in perceptual space.
When I suggested that Wy and Wk are physical forces, I meant
that they may prove detectable by instruments of suitable design.
'Trans-dimensional' forces would, I agree, be a better term.
One reason for my 'surprising' version of Descartes' philosophy,
which Professor Price mentions, and for the possible distortions of
the implications of relativity theory, to which Dr Thouless and
Mr Chari draw attention, is that I have learned about these sys-
tems of knowledge through their interpreters. This has been
regrettably necessary owing to the size of the field I have tried to
cover and to the mathematical difficulty of relativity theory. For
Descartes I have relied largely on Burtt, and for relativity on
Eddington and Jeans. If perceptual space is regarded as being a
direct cross-section of physical space-time, as Jeans seems to
suggest is implied in relativity, ^ is that not the TNS theory?
I have been in touch with Mr Warner Allen since the publication
of my paper and I now see that I was mistaken in attributing to
him the TNS fallacy. James's 'Chamber of Consciousness'
should, however, I think, be attributed with spatial extension. It
seems to have more than the merely temporal extension with which
Mr Warner Allen attributes it in his works. I must apologize for
my misinterpretation of his views.
To pass on the main epistemological difficulties that have been
raised. These may be summarized as follows:
1
Sir James Jeans, Physics and Philosophy (Cambridge University
Press, 1942), PP- 63-9.
560 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JAN.
(i) How is it possible to gain accurate information about one
series of events (i.e. physical events) by observing a second series
of events (i.e. experiential events or sense-data) occurring at one
end of a signalling mechanism the other end of which is con-
nected to the second series of events, the whole arranged in such
a way that the first set may be said to represent the second, when
it is impossible ever to observe the second set directly?
(ii) How can it be possible to know that the first set is giving an
accurate representation of the second set and indeed that the
second set exists at all?
Such a fundamental question as this can hardly be dealt with
adequately in the space available, so I can only attempt a brief
defence of the representative theory. I would answer the first
objection by saying that perceptual situations of this nature,
though at a lower level, play an increasing part in modern life.
When I perceive a fluctuating series of grey and v/hite dots on my
television screen I do not limit myself to an account of the elec-
tronic behaviour of my set. I assume that I am perceiving, for
instance, a game of cricket at the Oval, and thus am gaining a lot
of information and knowledge that I would not otherwise have
obtained. It is then only necessary to postulate that my sense-
data, as I inspect them (in Broad's sense), representing the screen
of my set and the events occurring there, bear the same type of
relation to the actual screen and its actual events as these latter in
turn do to the actual cricket match at the Oval. In the latter case
the signalling mechanism is formed by light, television camera,
transmitter, and receiver : in the former case it is formed by light,
eye, optic nerve, brain, and I would add Wy and psychical mechan-
ism. This analogy with television is in fact more than an analogy,
as recent work in neurophysiology supports the view that the actual
mechanisms concerned in visual perception function along lines
very similar to television. As Grey Walter ^ has said, 'the tele-
visual system behaves very like the neuro-visual one'.
It may be objected that this postulated relation between sense-
data and physical events cannot be checked directly as can the
relation between the television set and the cricket match. This is,
in fact, the second objection given above. There may be various
ways of replying to it. In the first place, we do not always know
if anything does correspond in the physical world to certain ex-
periences (for instance, some kinds of visual hallucination induced
in normal subjects under hypnosis) if we are restrained from
^ 'Features in the Electro-physiology of Mental Mechanisms' in D.
Richter, ed.. Perspectives in Neuropsychiatry (London, Lewis, 1950), pp.
67-78 ; see also C. T. Morgan and E. Stellar, Physiological Psychology
(New York, McGraw-Hill, 1950), pp. 593-4.
1952] Reply by Dr Smythies 561
making more complex observations (looking for shadows, for
example—that is, making fresh perceptions for the purpose of
making observations from which inferences may be drawn) and if
we are not allowed to touch the object (i.e. checking by using
another sensory path). As E. A. Burtt ^ points out, we do not
check doubtful perceptions by making fresh observations in a
new manner on the physical objects themselves, but by making
fresh perceptions or observations in the old manner. At any
rate, we know soon enough when events in the perceptual world
cease to follow the events in the physical world to any severe
degree, and hallucinations and illusions develop, unless we lose
insight. In the latter case our behaviour will very largely be
determined by the events in perceptual space, as a study of
schizophrenia shows. The basis of the madness of a schizo-
phrenic is not that he has 'lost his reason' but that he ceases to
realize that the extraordinary events he is experiencing are
occurring in his own perceptual world only and consequently
behaves as though they were occurring in the public physical
world also. There are, of course, distortions of reasoning in
schizophrenia—the thought disorder and the peculiar symbolism
—but the schizophrenic remains a moderately reliable witness for
the phenomena he is experiencing.^ This may be better under-
stood if one experiences oneself a short artificial schizophrenic-
like psychosis such as is produced by the alkaloid mescaline. In
any signalling mechanism 'false' information may be inserted at
any level, but it remains information for all that. Its falseness is
merely a relative quality. It can tell us nothing about the objective
of the signalling mechanism, the system at which the mechanism is
directed, but such interference (e.g. hallucinations) can tell us a
great deal about the signalling mechanism itself and the environ-
ment of the mechanism, if this should be more extensive in any
way than the system comprising the objective of the mechanism
and the distal end of the mechanism itself. All experiences,
including schizophrenic ones, must be correlated.
The mode of presentation of our picture of the external world,
and certain aspects of our knowledge of it, have been built up by
many years of subconscious learning along the lines described by
J. Z. Young,^ in which the mode of action and electronic behaviour
of the mechanisms of the brain have been radically changed. Our
knowledge of the external world has also been built up, in the child
^ The Metaphysical Foundations of Modern Physical Science, 2nd ed.
(London, Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1932).
^ See, for example, Thomas Hennell, The Witnesses (London, Peter
Davies, 1938).
^ Doubt and Certainty in Science (London, Oxford University Press,
1951)-
562 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JAN.
as in the race, by conscious learning and by 'logical processes of
construction and hypothesis, and by inferences therefrom'.^ By
the time we reach adult life these two processes have established
the condition where, by the former process, the sense-fields are
presented in an orderly manner, and we can gain meaning from
what we inspect. When these mechanisms go wrong, or where
they have received no instruction, the sense-fields are presented
in a disorderly and confusing manner. In cases reported by J. Z.
Young 2 and Paul Schilder ^ of patients who are restored to sight
following congenital blindness, the visual field is just a confused
mass of colour in which no objects are perceived for several
months while the electronic mechanisms transmitting the patterns
of vision are learning. By the logical process of construction, etc.,
we gain the idea of a physical world which may be supposed con-
tinually to feed information into the manifold inputs of the
machine, of which one set of manifold outputs /orw the perceptual
world. Dobbs has dealt with this question with clarity in the
article already referred to. He states that all knowledge of physical
events, and thus of processes in physical objects, is inferential
and never direct knowledge. The only change I would suggest in
his account is that the one-to-one correspondence between
experential events and neural events is not gained though co-
incidence in space but by connexion by signalling mechanism.
Experiential events and their antecedent neural events are geo-
metrically entirely incongruous.
i
May I now answer some of Mr Mundle's points.
(i) It is not I who am responsible for the notion that Direct
Realism has been rendered untenable by neurophysiology.* I have 1
quoted the eminent authorities in this field upon whose deductions
I have based my arguments—E. L. Hutton and Sir Charles
Sherrington. To state that 'the objects of his study have their
existence only in him', and 'accepting finite mind as having a 1
"where" and that "where" within the brain' is surely to refute 1
Direct Realism.^
I am not suggesting that the function of the nervous system is
I
^ H. A. C. Dobbs, 'The Relation between the Time of Psychology and '
the Time of Physics', British Journal for the Philosophy of Science, 195
1
ii, 122-41. J
^ Op. cit., pp. 61-6.
^ Brain and Personality (New York, International Universities Press,
1951)-
* The sense in which I use this includes the findings of neurology,
neuropsychiatry, and experimental psychology (parts of).
^ See also Russell Brain's criticisms of Direct Realism in 'The Neuro-
logical Approach to Perception', Philosophy, 1946, xxi, 133—46.
1952] Reply by Dr Smytides 563
either 'selective' or 'creative' but mainly transmissive (with sub-
sidiary subconscious functions of control and communication).
Grey Walter ^ has said, 'The basic concept which runs through the
new approach to brain and mind is that the brain is an organ for
handling signals.' It is perhaps an advantage for this theory that
it entails the minimum change in the current theoretical position
in neurophysiology, and, I think, does not clash with any facts of
neurophysiology. The changes I am suggesting are mainly
additive.
I do not assume that the function of the optic nerve and brain
'must be to create private mind-dependent entities'. I suggest
that these latter are created by the mechanical part of the spatially
independent psyche. The total psyche-brain mechanism would
then be both transmissive, creative, and contain internal focussing
devices to aid the direction of attention. The brain may be one
half of Sherrington's telephone exchange. The subscribers may
inhabit the other half. I can see little justification for supposing
that we observe events in the physical world directly, in order to
persuade ourselves that there is such a world, when all the evidence
from neurology, neurophysiology, neuropsychiatry, and experi-
mental psychology indicates, to an overwhelming degree, that we
do not observe physical events in this fashion.
(ii) I have already to some extent dealt with Mr Mundle's
second point. The relation between A and B is given by postu-
lating that they form together an ^-dimensional continuum. On
page 492 of my paper I said that they may be non-coincident.
That is not to say that they do not have any spatial relation to each
other. They have the spatial relation of non-coincidence. The
intimate relations that exist between our minds and our bodies
may be accounted for by supposing that the body and the psyche
(including the Self) form together a single and unified organism.
Mr Flew states firmly that it is a mistake to use the word 'mind'
as though it referred to an object, as does the word 'brain', and
that his opinions are based on 'common and correct linguistic
usage'. I feel, however, that common linguistic usage can hardly
be held to be sufficient authority for deciding fundamental issues
in cosmology. No one can possibly claim to know whether events
do or do not occur in higher-dimensional space and whether or
not these events have anything to do with human beings. These
questions can only be answered by observation and experiment.
I have no objection if the phrase he finds most noxious in my
article be changed to 'People are able to abstract information, etc'
In that case, it is necessary to postulate that a person comprises a
^ Perspectives in Neuropsychiatry, p. 69.
564 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JAN.
body and an X. The particular label you attach to X does not
seem to me to be as important as Mr Flew claims ;
though, of
course, it avoids misunderstandings if the same term is used in the
same sense by everyone who uses it. X may be in part, or perhaps
wholly, an organized and material entity extended in a space of a
different dimensionality to that in which the body is extended. I
suggest that psyche is a good name for it. Part of the psyche seems
to divide naturally into Self and not-Self, the observer and what is
observed, the thinker and what is thought.
Mr Flew admits that he possesses a mechanism by the aid of
which he perceives the external world. It is, he says, part of him.
Where then, in the world that he perceives, is this mechanism
located .-^
To sustain his case he must suppose that it is located
inside his perceived head. If so, then it must be transparent since
his observing Self is presumably inside the semi-liquid mass of his
brain encased in an opaque and solid skull. If, however, he sup-
poses that his perceived skull and body are inside the mechanism,
as Hutton suggests, then he is propounding the representative
theory of perception at present widely held in neurology, where
perceived events are electron patterns in the brain. My theory is
only a variant of this latter theory where a part of the mechanism
is cut off from the brain by 'a great gulf fixed'. It is interesting to
note that Moncrieff, in his ingenious attempt to resurrect Naive
Realism, was forced to place the point of observation in the cavity
of the eye-ball behind the transparent cornea, aqueous humour,
crystalline lens and vitreous humour, and in front of the opaque \
retina, sclera, optic nerve, etc.^ It seems to me that until someone
can construct a detailed theory of brain function which can
account for all the determined facts of neurology and allied
disciplines and can yet support Naive Realism, the only three
defensible theories of perception are those given by Russell Brain
in his article in Philosophy to which I have already referred.
Mr Flew constructs his theories by a 'constant more or less
explicit appeal to common and correct linguistic usage'. How
does Mr Flew know that common linguistic usage is in fact cor-
rect? Language is merely the system of inter-observer communi-
cation and clearly cannot be used as the sole basis for an infallible
theory of perception, mind, or anything else, since it will inevit-
ably embody and reproduce any mistaken ideas that these ob-
servers may entertain, and any mistaken opinions that they, as
fallible human beings, may form of their own nature. The mere
argument that we all mean the same thing when we say T see a
tank' is really not a sufficient indication that Direct Realism is a
^ M. M. Moncrieff, The Clairvoyant Theory of Perception (London,
Faber, 1951).
1952] Reply by Dr Smythies 565
true theory. We would be equally in agreement if a representative
theory were true, as Hutton points out in the passage I quoted
from her work in my article.
Mr Flew seems to me to give words an undue importance rela-
tive to the entities that words are the labels we use to describe.
His philosophical criteria could not, for example, today be used
to support the Ptolemaic concept of the universe. This is because
science has progressed and common linguistic usage has changed
drastically in its train. Five hundred years ago, if Mr Flew's sys-
tem had been applied to astronomical matters, we would have dis-
covered the truth that the earth lay at the centre of the universe.
It seems doubtful whether this system can be decisive in answer-
ing the more difficult questions of the human mind and soul.
It is generally agreed that, while the facts of parapsychology do
not need any further experiments to establish them, they do need
a vast number of experiments to discover more about them. But,
as Plesch,^ among others, has pointed out, there is need for a
theory to account for them, a theory which may be tested by
further experiments. Mr Flew asks in his first paragraph how
objects as elusive as psyches may be detected. This may be done
by detecting the postulated and necessary influences they may
exert on material systems in physical space. Electrons are un-
observable for another reason. They are too small. But their
behaviour can be followed by using such devices as Wilson's cloud
chamber. We require analogous devices for investigating psi-fields.
Mr Stevens wonders why I did not make any further reference
to the theory of the psyche that he favours (
(i) on p. 500). I had
already pointed out its shortcomings in the first section of my
paper. I do not unconsciously assume that 'there must be a mind
around the place somewhere'. I have suggested an exact formula-
tion for this 'whereness' of the entity that might well be called
'mind', though I would agree that it is better to call this additional
organ the psyche. In an article in the Journal of Parapsychology ^
Mr Stevens says, 'Those who study behaviour in relation to brain
structure . . . have endeavoured to observe the activity of the whole
organism in its environment . .
.'
(p. 130) and 'we would deal with
the function of the organism as a whole' (p. 132). It is a very bold
assumption to hold that the body and brain of a man is the whole
organism and that the physical world is his total environment.
I should like next to deal in more detail with a most important
^ P. H. Plesch, 'Psychical Research as seen by a Physical Chemist',
Jnl. S.P.R., 1950, XXXV, 272-83.
^
1950, xiv.
566 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JAN.
point : the relation of the perceived body to the physical body. I
am suggesting that they ought to be differentiated under the
determinable of location in space. I do not think that anyone
would deny that the perceived body is extended in space. Russell
Brain ^ has stated, 'In our awareness of our own bodies we are
directly aware of a three-dimensional object.' The question then
immediately presents itself, 'What is the necessary spatial relation
between the perceived body and the actual physical body?' There
are three possible replies :
(i) The perceived body is coincident in space with the
physical body. (This is the almost universal view of common
sense.)
(ii) The perceived body is coincident in space with the body-
image in the brain of the physical body. (This is the current
position in neurology and allied disciplines, though it is not
usually stated in this form. It is usually left implied, so deeply
rooted are our common-sense notions.)
(iii) The perceived body is made of mind-stuff and is spatially
independent of any part of the physical body.
The neurological and neuropsychiatric evidence must make us
very doubtful of (i). The perceived body can change its shape
and size quite independently of the state of the physical body and
does this in cases where the mind is quite clear, and the judgement
unclouded. The best examples may be found in the phenomena
of 'phantom limb' and in people under the influence of mescaline.
One of our subjects, who was at the time in a state of observational
integrity, experienced the sensation that his perceived body
executed a series of complete turns from the waist down around
its longitudinal axis. He described it as being a most alarming
sensation. As he said later : 'It felt just as though I was being
wrung out like a sponge. I could never have imagined the experi-
ence without having taken the drug. It was quite foreign to me.'
Surely it is not possible for a body with its lower half reversed to be
coincident with the physical body which of course cannot execute
such movements? Mescaline interferes with the biochemical
processes in the brain that support the electron patterns that
delineate the body-image in the brain. It may even cause the
perceived body to disappear altogether, and to be replaced by a
humming feeling. All that has happened is that the electronic
arrangements conducting the patterns of bodily sensation have
been 'scrambled'.
In (ii) the difficulty is that the perceived body is not the same
shape as what appears to be the body-image in the brain. This latter
is upside down, split in half, and grossly distorted, and the parts
^Philosophy, 1946, xxi, 142.
1952] Reply by Dr Sitiythies 567
rearranged.^ These difficulties may be overcome by advances in
physiology, but I do not think that anyone will ever be able to fit
the perceived body into the brain with any degree of plausibility.
I am suggesting that the third possibility may be the true one.
As a tentative lead in the experimental investigation of this
theory, I should like to suggest that the extraordinary behaviour
of Ehrenhaft's dust particles ^ may possibly be due to the fact that
they are reacting to the extracerebral 'penumbra' of psi-fields (or
Eccles's mind influences ^). Ehrenhaft's system of minute dust
particles suspended in a low vacuum in a beam of concentrated
sunlight would seem to possess an important property similar to
that postulated by Eccles for the 'neurone net' in his development
of this concept : e.g. a high degree of 'poise'. They also possess
abundant free energy, as does the brain. It is interesting that
Ehrenhaft's discoveries were made when he was using an instru-
ment devised to detect minute magnetic forces. It is evident that
any physicist investigating the behaviour of such a delicately
balanced system, with which psi was in fact interfering, would be
led to construct curious theories to account for these phenomena,
if he left psi out of his range of possibilities. Ehrenhaft has in fact
attempted to account for his phenomena by means of theories with
which other physicists disagree violently. I visited Professor
Ehrenhaft in March 195 1, and am able to confirm Rabel's report
from personal witness, and further to suggest that Rabel's one
proff'ered explanation for this phenomenon (that it is due to
irregularities in the shape of the particles) seems to be untenable
since dusts of such widely differing shapes as graphite (flat plates)
and sponge sperm dust (globules) may be observed to spin along
exactly similar complex paths. Incidentally, the dust particles
seem to be tracing out Lissajou figures and a mathematical
analysis of these might yield interesting results.
It is also just possible that Wy may be responsible for the move-
ment of electrons in the brain that causes the alpha-rhythm (and
perhaps other rhythms) of the Electroencephalograph, and also for
Rohracher's phenomenon ^
—the minute, constant, and regular
mechanical vibration of the human body and the earth at a fre-
quency of about 10 cycles per second.
^ See M. A. B. Brazier, The Electrical Activity of the Nervous System
(London, Pitman, 195 1), figs. 3 and 4 on pp. 5, 6.
^ See article by Gabrielle Rabel, 'Matter Moved by Light', Discovery,
1951, xii, 151-3.
^ See the most important article by Professor J. C. Eccles, F.R.S.,
'Hypotheses relating to the Brain-Mind Problem', Nature, 195 1, clxviii,
53-7. which I had not read when I wrote my paper.
Hubert Rohracher, Mechanische Mikrostvingungen des jnenschlichen
Korpers (Vienna, Urban & Schwarzenberg, 1949).
568 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
I also suggest that, if we take into account the facts of para-
psychology, the most probable of the three relationships between
sense-data and the nervous system that Russell Brain ^
considers
is the second : 'A sense-datum is a psychical event unlike the
neural stimulus which initiates it and thus doubly removed from
the original physical stimulus.' When we change from inspection
to perception (both in Broad's sense),^ we should change the
frame of reference we are using. The two frames may be so re-
lated that there is at least one axis in each set which is in that set
only.
The relation R in Broad's formula o—R—s may be one of
connexion by signalling mechanism. ^ .
The two fundamental processes in the central nervous system
of excitation and inhibition may also extend to the relation be-
tween the brain and the psyche. The brain may also have the
additional function of exerting a continual inhibition over mind-
stuff, which may not be a mere passive mediator of sense patterns
and will but may possess the potentiality of a fierce life of its own.
The natural activity of mind-stuff may be the production of images
and pictures of startling beauty, intense poetic integrity, and
charged with an elemental significance and meaning. It is possible
that this inhibitory function of the brain may itself be inhibited by
mescaline. I feel that the phenomena produced by mescaline are
of absolutely fundamental philosophical importance.^ It seems
unlikely that visions of such overpowering beauty as mescaline
produces, and the extraordinary way in which the drug causes the
perceived world to become very much more beautiful, are pro-
ducts of a sick brain. Some mescal visions are the most beautiful
things that man on this planet has ever witnessed, so many intelli-
gent people who have experienced these things have alleged.
They can only be given an adequate explanation by supposing that
they represent the beauty of the soul (in Plato's phrase) gaining
partial release from its domination by the brain.
A Revised Set of Postulates (with Notes)
The basic postulate
I. Perceptual space is not coincident with physical space.
^ Philosophy, 1946, xxi, 145.
- C. D. Broad, The Mind and its Place in Nature (London, Routledge &
Kegan Paul, 1923).
' See, for instance, A. Rouhier, Le Peyotl (Paris, Gaston Doin, 1927)
and A. J. C. Wilson, 'Ayahuasca, Peyotl, Yage', Proc. S.P.R., 1949, xlviii,
353-63-
Reply by Dr Smythies 569
The subsidiary postulates
II. Perceptual space is part of a larger space system, psychical
space.
Note. This latter is usually unobservable for the reasons given, but
events in it can determine events in both observable space systems.
III. Psychical space is filled with mind-stuff, part of which
forms a signalling mechanism between the brain and the observer.
The proximal surface of this mechanism forms the limits of direct
observation.
Note. These limits comprise the limits of the perceived body and
the visual screen as demonstrated by after-images and the stroboscopic
patterns. The limits of auditory space and the space of mental imagery
are included but are less definite. The perceived body may for this
purpose be regarded as a complex sort of surface.
IV. Psychical space and physical space may be thought of as
forming together an ^-dimensional continuum, where n may be
4, 5, or 6. These endure in time. If psychical space and psychi-
cal time form a continuum, then psychical space-time and
physical space-time may form an «-dimensional continuum,
where n may be 5, 6, 7, or 8. Thus they may partially intersect
or be non-intersecting. The movement of the total human
organism through the ^-dimensional space-time continuum may
divide it into space dimensions and one or two time dimensions.
Note.
Two non-coincident and infinite straight lines form a 2-dimensional
system.
Two non-coincident and infinite planes form a 3- or a 4-dimensional
system.
Two non-coincident and infinite cubes form a 4-, 5-, or 6-dimensional
system.
Two non-coincident and infinite hypercubes form a 5-, 6-, 7-, or 8-
dimensional system.
V. We must distinguish between
(1) Direct observation : the Self's direct view of experiential
events or the behaviour of sense-data made of mind-
stuff, and
(2) Indirect observation : the Self's view of the physical
world thus obtained.
Note, (i) corresponds to our view of the events on a television
screen, and (2) to our view of events in the television studio thus ob-
tained.
Notes on general topology
An issue fundamental to the problems of perception seems to be
what events are to be regarded as taking place inside the human
57° Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
organism and what events outside it. Perceptual space may be em-
bedded in psychical space in that the two are of the same dimen-
sionaHty. The boundary surface between them is formed as
described in the note to postulate III. The boundary surface
between psychical space and physical space is a dimensional inter-
face. In this case the topological boundary of the total human
organism is formed by the skin and the surfaces of the psychical
mechanisms associated with the individual observer. Thus inside
comprises
(a) a portion of physical space inside the skin ;
{b) a portion of psychical space containing the psychical mech-
anisms ;
{c) the whole of perceptual space (which is limited in extent).
Outside comprises
(«) the rest of physical space ;
{b) the rest of psychical space.
Physical space is public : perceptual space is wholly private;
psychical space may be public if we all share one or private if we
each have one to ourselves. There may be no way of telling.
Postscript. Since writing this reply, I have read Professor
Broad's Scientific Thought. His conclusions on pp. 392-3 and
543-4 are revelant to this theory.
REVIEWS
Religion and the New Psychology. By Alson J. Smith. With
Introductions by Dr J. B. Rhine and the Right Rev. Austin J.
Pardue. New York, Doubleday, 195 1. 192 pp. $2. 50.
The New Psychology, for Dr Alson J. Smith, is parapsychology,
and he has discovered parapsychology as bringing new hope, 'the
hope of the world in this time of crisis', to 'the millions of nominal
Christians . . . whose acceptance of the scientific method has
shaken their faith'. For 'parapsychology . . . can make religion
intellectually respectable and science emotionally satisfying' (p. 6).
This enthusiasm, appropriate enough in a good Methodist, has
not prevented him from writing a book based upon a very wide
knowledge of the history and present position of the subject. And
the two Introductions, by the Protestant Episcopal Bishop of
Pittsburgh and by Dr Rhine, both much more than formal com-
mendations, should secure his book a reading in both camps.
That by Dr Rhine has indeed a note of personal autobiography
which gives it considerable importance, and the whole book has
the authentic hall-mark of Duke University upon it. The writer
has a first-hand and up-to-date knowledge of the experimental
work which is going on there, and has had access to the records of
1952] Reviews 57 ^
I
its early successes as well as to the later more carefully controlled
experiments in which those successes are now being tested. He
has also read widely in the history of psychical research, on both
sides of the Atlantic, and with all his enthusiasm gives a by no
means uncritical survey of the history from Patience Worth and
the Fox sisters to the present day.
His purpose lies in the presentation of the growing rigour of the
application of scientific method to fields of enquiry which involve a
re-casting of some of the most cherished presuppositions of modern
science. Parapsychology is now a scientific subject, but it obvi-
ously opens the door to hypotheses for which science has, until
lately, found no use. Some of man's oldest intuitions are becoming
respectable again, after long years of discredit. Personally I find
Dr Alson Smith's theological interpretations a little too enthusi-
astic. I respect and agree with his intentions, but there are a good
many gaps between the findings of parapsychology and his vision
for the Church of tomorrow. We are a long way yet from seeing
in parapsychology the hope for the re-union of Christendom 'by
emphasizing that supernormal element that all denominations have
j
in common', and by the revival of 'religion's ancient faith in man'
(p. 174). And a church whose password is not 'Credo' but 'Amo'
(p. 175) will in fact have a creed, drawn directly from the New
Testament (I John iv. 21, et passim), and one which parapsychology
has not yet gone very far to affirm.
Real students of parapsychology will, naturally enough, find
little that is new in this vigorous survey, and some inaccuracies
were inevitable, as in the references to Miss Beauchamp, where
'Sally' is given a second identity, and Doris Fisher, where the
more critical survey by T. W. Mitchell would have helped the
writer. He also does not know how open to criticism is the evi-
dence for An Adventure, though he shows a proper hesitation
about it. And some of his accounts of the phenomenal scoring by
subjects at Duke University, though true as they stand, need to be
read with a caution which those who know something about the
later work there will be able to provide, but which may be lacking
in the general reader.
But it is a stimulating and a lively book, and I am glad to have
read it.
L. W. Grensted
Second Sight : its History and Origins. By Lewis Spence.
London, Rider, 1951. 190 pp. i8s.
The focus of Second Sight manifestations seems by definition
to be the Scottish Highlands. Mr Spence has collected together a
572 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
great number of stories from old sources and claims that the
collection is exhaustive up to the end of the eighteenth century.
He shows that originally Second Sight was associated with the
worship of ancestral spirits.
The most interesting feature of the book is the tracking down of
the story material to roots in folklore. Although Lewis Spence
believes that Second Sight can be supernormal, 'When ignorant
and unlettered folk seek to enhance the circumstances of a tale in
order to make themselves momentarily important, they usually
fall back upon the stock material of primitive fiction'. This may
well 'ring a bell' with the student of poltergeists, particularly the
classic cases.
It is unusual in a book of this type to find not a single mention
of the Society for Psychical Research or of its publications.
Mr Spence appeals to psychologists to digest and elaborate on
the material he has collected, so it is a pity he has not provided an
index.
D. P.
Miracles. By Olivier Leroy. Bruges, Desclee de Brouwer, 1951.
152 pp.
M. Leroy defines a miracle as 'an extraordinary external event
not explicable by any natural cause known or conceivable, and
suggesting by its antecedents that its cause is invisible, personal
and intelligent'. He gives a number of interesting and well-
documented cases which he regards as falling within this definition,
especially some cases of faith-healing. In some other cases,
readers may feel that the incidents he relates are more easily
explicable by normal means than M. Leroy seems to admit. He is,
however, commendably cautious in the conclusions he draws, and
students of psychical research will agree with him that an incident
should not be dismissed as impossible on a priori grounds. We
should consider all available evidence and determine, if possible,
what actually occurred.
H. DE G. S.
Journal of Parapsychology, Vol. 15, No. 2, June 1951. Dur-
ham, N.C., Duke University Press. $1.50.
Professor Rhine's editorial on Parapsychology and Physics dis-
cusses the relation of psi phenomena to physical principles and the
part which their study may play in advancing understanding of
those problems in biology which defy physical methods of explana-
tion.
1952] Reviews 573
The first main article is a shortened reprint of the report of
Thouless's experiments on PK which has already been printed in
our Proceedings.
Two articles deal with Soal's work on reinforcement effects in
card-guessing experiments where two successive target cards are
the same. Soal's original way of estimating the reinforcement
effect was criticised by Professor M. S. Bartlett, and Greville
contributes 'A method of evaluating the reinforcement effect'. In
a longer article by Pratt, some of the Soal-Goldney reinforcement
data is re-evaluated by this and another method. Significant
evidence for reinforcement is found.
The most novel and interesting report in the Journal is one by
Lyndon and Ronald Rose on Tsi experiments with Australian
aborigines'. Highly significant results were obtained in card-
guessing experiments, but no significant results in P K experiments.
Both high ESP capacities and PK capacities are supposed by the
aborigines to be found amongst a small number of 'clever men'.
None of these was tested, but the authors intend to try to get some
such subjects in a later investigation.
Mrs Rhine reports a long series of PK tests of the 'placement'
type. The total results were not significant, but there are some
suggestive indications of relationships within the total series.
Casper reports an experiment on the effect of attitude of subject
on ESP scoring. He adopts the erroneous method of comparing
the total scores of different kinds of subjects instead of treating it
as a problem of contingency in which the numbers of subjects
scoring at various rates in different groups are compared. The
method adopted systematically over-estimates the significance of
any observed difference, and such over-estimation of significance
is liable to lead to contradictions between the findings of different
experimenters.
Robert H. Thouless
CORRESPONDENCE
ESP AND Information Theory
Sir,—I listened recently to a wireless discussion of the results of
experiments in psychical research and after I had thought over
what I had heard, an idea came to me for an interesting test to be
applied to existing data. My suggestion concerns the application
of the concepts of the mathematical theory of information.
574 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jan.
The results of all the experiments which I have heard described
have been analysed without any explicit account being taken of the
time element involved. It is true that the effects of varying the
rate of presentation in the five-card experiments have been noted,
but time does appear as a variable in the statistical analysis. But
in the communication of information from one place to another
—
and the telepathy experiments would appear to be tests of some
communication system—time is an essential parameter. In a
fundamental paper, C. E. Shannon has shown that the physical
properties of a channel place an upper limit on the rate at which
information can be transmitted through it, and that this limit is
independent of the form the signal takes. It is thus of interest to
determine whether the same sort of limitations apply to the psi
channels.
The starting point of information theory is the setting up of a
numerical measure of amount of information, and the unit now
generally adopted is the binary digit—the information contained in
the correct choice from a pair of equally probable alternatives.
The next step is the determination of the a priori probabilities p„
of the possible messages. The a priori 'entropy' of an ensemble
of possible messages is defined as the sum of -p^ log2^„ over the
whole ensemble. When a message is received unequivocally, the
a posteriori probability of that particular message becomes unity
and that of all the others zero. When it cannot be assumed that
the received message is correct, i.e. that it is the one transmitted,
our a posteriori knowledge can be expressed only as a new set of
probabilities p^' calculated from experience of receiving a number
of messages. The average information contained in a message is
the difference between the a priori and a posteriori entropies. In
the first case quoted above—where the message is received un-
equivocally—the a posteriori entropy is zero, so the average infor-
mation in a message is directly measured by the entropy of the
ensemble from which the message is selected.
In the five-card experiment the a priori probability of each
elementary message is 1/5. Let us denote the probability of the
received message being correct by (1/5 If 5X is small com-
pared with unity, then it is easily shown that the average informa-
tion in each message is 2x logs e binary digits. The rate at which
mformation is being transmitted is zxN logj e binary digits per
minute, where is the number of cards exposed per minute.
Now, if the psi channel is saturated, we should expect this
transmission rate to be constant independently of how rapidly
cards are presented, so that the excess of the receiver's score above
chance should be inversely proportional to the rate at which cards are
presented. To within the limits of the approximation used in this
1952] Correspondence $75
calculation the excess of score over chance should be independent
of the number of alternative cards. It would seem an easy matter,
by analysis of existing data, to test whether or not these relation-
ships hold.
The significance of the theory of information would be under-
estimated if the test were confined to the five-card experiment in
its simplest form. If an information rate limit exists, it is inde-
pendent of the way the messages are coded. For example, if serial
correlation between symbols was introduced, the information
content of each symbol would be reduced and the number of
correct guesses should rise.
E. R. R. HOLMBERG
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
JOURNAL
of the
Society for Psychical Research
Volume XXXVI No. 669 March-April 1952
TWO SERIES OF PK TESTS ON
PARAMECIA
By Nigel Richmond
introduction
The following experiments were designed to test whether an
ability of P K exists which would influence the behaviour of proto-
zoa. Paramecia were chosen as suitable subjects for these tests
because they are very common, are easily recognized, and usually
swim about in random fashion in search of food.^ The purpose
of the experiments was to influence, by thought alone, the direction
in which a chosen animalcule would swim during a selected period.
The method of assessing the success of each attempt, vi^hich was
made under a low-power microscope (magnification x 75), was to
divide the field of view of the microscope into four by cross wires
in the eyepiece of the instrument (Figure I). The attempt was
timed by a stop-watch for a given period, and the quadrant con-
taining the Paramecium at the end of this time was noted. The
quadrant into which the paramecium was to be willed was selected
by turning up cards from an ordinary pack of playing cards, each
suit indicating one of the four divisions.
PROCEDURE IN THE FIRST SERIES
A sample of water containing paramecia and mud particles was
placed on a flat microscope slide and a cover slip placed over it to
prevent movement due to air currents on the surface of the water.
A typical field of view at the start of an attempt is shown in
Figure 1.
^ The Paramecium is a single-celled organism, about o oi ins. long.
It is common in all natural pond water and propels itself in the water by
moving the hair-like processes (cilia) on its body.
A 577
578 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
A Paramecium was then chosen which was making more or less
random movements about the field of view. No attempts were
made on paramecia swimming in a straight line, for these were
moving too fast, and it was thought that strong stimuli were al-
ready acting upon them. The microscope stage was then moved to
bring the paramecium under the cross wires, as in Figure I. A
stop-watch timing of 15 seconds was started, and at the same mo-
ment a card indicating one of the quadrants was turned up.
The timing, card-turning, and scoring may be done by a second
person if these activities disturb the concentration of the experi-
menter. In this first series some tests were made with this
CROSS WIRE
MUD PARIICLKS
PARAMECIUM
Figure I
Typical Field of View in First Series
assistance and some without, with no noticeable change in the
results. There was, nevertheless, a possibility of some error in the
timing in this series, and the technique was improved for the
second series of tests.
The experimenter then attempted, by thought alone, to drive
the Paramecium into the quadrant selected by the card. Precisely
at the end of the 15 seconds the position of the paramecium was
noted, together with the selected quadrant. The microscope stage
was again moved to centre the paramecium under the cross wires
and another attempt was then made. When the paramecium swam
out of the field of view during the test period the exit quadrant
was scored. Tests were considered void in which the paramecium
appeared under a cross wire at the end of the period.
1952] Two Series of PK Tests on Paramecia 579
A separate series of runs was also made, interspersed with the
tests already described, in which the procedure was exactly the
same as above except that no conscious effort was made to influence
the paramecia and the card was not turned up until the end of the
15-second period.
I have called these 'control' runs to distinguish them from the
'attempts', although perhaps this term is not entirely appropriate
24.4.48 25.4.48
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
TOTAL TESTS
UPWARD CTOVE: "ATTEItPT"
vmmitss CURVE! "control"
Figure II
Deviations from Chance Expectation. Series I
since there was a target (post-determined) for each and, as Dr
Rhine has commented, the possibility was not excluded of the
experimenter becoming aware of the card extrasensorily and then
applying the influence unconsciously either in a positive or nega-
tive direction.
RESULTS OF THE FIRST SERIES
Figure II shows the deviations from chance obtained in the 794
'attempts' and 799 'controls' which make up this series. The
580 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
final results are tabulated in Table I. Although the field of view
of the microscope is divided into four, the chance expectation is
taken to be one half. This is because I suspected that influence
applied in one direction would sometimes have its effect in the
diametrically opposite direction, according to the kind of mental
work employed. The experimenter may either influence the
Paramecium according to his conscious will, or alternatively he
may set up an unconscious resistance which will strengthen
its direct opposite, in this case the equivalent of scoring in the
diametrically opposite quadrant.
As it was not possible to ensure that the thought process was
controlled correctly, both the chosen quadrant and that dia-
metrically opposite were, for assessment purposes, counted as
targets, although during the experiment only the selected quadrant
was treated as such. It should be remembered, however, that the
experimenter was aware of a success in the opposite quadrant even
though he would will towards the selected one. The results for
the selected quadrant and the one diametrically opposite may be
found in Table I.
TABLE I
Series I Series II Series I & II
'Attempt'
Runs
Number of Runs 794 701 1495
Deviation in
chosen direction + 31-5 + 7775 + 109-25
Deviation in
opposite direction + 54-5 + 1575 + 70-25
Total Deviation + 86 + 93-5 + 179-5
Critical Ratio + 6-1 + 7-06 + 9-28
Percentage success + 217 + 267 + 24
'Control'
Runs
Number of Runs 799 701 1500
Deviation -41-5 -15-5 - 57
Critical Ratio - 2-94 - I-I7 - 2-94
Percentage success - 10-4 - 4-4 - 77
Assessing the 'attempt' runs first, shown in Figure II by the
curve above the chance (o) line, the total of 86 extra-chance suc-
cesses in 794 attempts gives a critical ratio of + 6-i. Turning then
to the 'conti'ol' runs (shown in Figure II by the curve below the
1952] Two Series of PK Tests on Paramecia 581
chance line), there appears the peculiar circumstance of a signifi-
cant negative deviation of 41-5 (C.R. -2-94).
Another useful way of evaluating these results has been sug-
;
gested by Dr Thouless which expresses the success as a per-
centage of the attempts made. Thus, in the 'attempts' of the first
series, chance would predict 397 successes. There are, however,
86 more than this, which means that 86 predicted failures have
been turned into successes. As there are also 397 failures pre-
dicted, the proportion of successful runs is 86/397—i.e. 21-7 per
cent.
In the 'control' runs the percentage of 'success' is - 10-4, or
about I in 10 less correspondence with the chosen quadrants than
predicted by chance.
I
CONSIDERATION OF THE RESULTS OF THE FIRST SERIES
An interesting and quite unexpected factor in the results is the
negative deviation in the 'control' runs. Figure II indicates that
not only is a negative deviation obtained, but the curve of this
deviation bears a crude likeness to the positive curve in the
'attempt' runs.
This significant negative deviation can only reasonably be
thought of as the result of E S P , unless so large a deviation can be
considered attributable to chance. It is only in the mind of the
experimenter that the relation between target and card suit exists ;
it is thus reasonable to suppose that his mind is the only link
existing between the pack of cards and the direction the Para-
mecium will take, and that it is responsible for the negative devia-
tion found experimentally. In practice this means that the experi-
menter must have extrasensory knowledge of the card suit before
he can influence the paramecium eff^ectively in 'control' runs.
If the resemblance between the two curves of Figure II is due
to 'negative' PK applied through extrasensory perception of the
card, there would probably be a relation between the rate of suc-
cess of 'attempts' and 'controls' made at approximately the same
date. The average deviation per 100 tests, and date, is tabulated
below. This shows an approximate resemblance between
'attempts' and 'controls' made on the same day, or within a day
of one another (except for those made on 24 and 25 April 1948,
which are discussed later).
This would seem to indicate that when one is successful in a
normal P K run, one is at the same time successful in keeping the
'controls' well below chance expectation by ESP and PK, and if
one faculty is disturbed the other is also.
582 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
TABLE II
Average Deviation per 100
Date Attempts Controls
(April 1948)
13th 935
15th 8-s
17th 1
1
-5
i8th Il-g
19th 80 78
2ISt 7-5
22nd 3-5 2-6
23rd 05
24th 17-0 80
25th 22-0 6-2
As this series of tests progressed, the number of 'control' runs
carried out were gradually allowed to lag behind the total number
of 'attempts'. At the same time the successes obtained in the
'attempt' runs began to fall off until on 22 April a deviation of
only 3-5 per 100 was obtained. (See Table II and Figure Ill-
solid Hne.) Upon noticing this at the time, it seemed that there
might be a connexion between the negative deviation in the 'con-
trol' runs and the successes obtained in the 'attempts'; so on
0 100 200 300 400 500 600
TOTAL TESTS
UPWARD CURVE: "ATTEMPT"
DOWNWARD CURVE: "CONTROL"
Figure III
Solid Line shows 'Attempt' Runs made on 22 April 1948 with
'Control' Runs out of Step. Series I
1952] Two Series of PK Tests on Paramecia 583
23 April 'controls' were made to bring the total number up to the
same as for 'attempts' (Figure IV), and thereafter I intended to
keep them in step. To this end, on 24 April, 40 'controls' were
made after every 40 'attempts' (Figure II), which gave the highest
success yet obtained. Carrying this idea further on 25 April 'con-
trol' runs were carried out after every 5 'attempts'. This gave the
highest positive deviation of all (Figure II).
0 100 200 300 400 500 600
TOTAL TESTS
'
UPWARD CURVE 5
"ATTEMPT"
DOWNWARD CURVE: "CONTROL"
Figure IV
Solid Line shows 'Control' Runs made on 23 April 1948 to bring
THEM into Step with 'Attempt' Runs. Series I
These last two results are in sharp contrast to the previous two,
and the negative deviation does not correspond with the positive
one as did the earlier tests (see Table II). Some fundamental
change was caused by keeping the 'control' runs in step with the
'attempts'.
One of the possible interpretations of this result is to consider
the 'control' series as releasing forces formed in opposition to the
intention of the experimenter, whether these are thought of as exist-
ing solely in the mind of the experimenter, or in some psychic
584 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
structure including the paramecia. In either case these forces
would be released through the mechanism of extrasensory per-
ception of the suit of the selecting card by the experimenter in the
'control' series.
The small negative deviation obtained on 24 and 25 April,
v\rhere high positive scores were made, is also in keeping with this
compensative explanation. If a compensating force is being built
up, the more often it can be released the less effect it will produce
in negative deviation in the 'control' runs and depressive effect in
the 'attempt' runs.
PARAMECIUU
FILTER STRIP
SCRATCH
( DIVIDIHG LINE )
Figure V
Typical Field of View in Second Series
changes of procedure for the second series
Other than the decision to make this series with 'controls'
closely interspersed with 'attempt' runs, it was suggested by a
number of people that borderline cases, where the paramecium is
near the cross wire at the end of the 15-second period, might be
misjudged in favour of a high score. I agreed that this was a
possible source of error, and devised a guarding procedure to
overcome it.
The cross wires in the eyepiece of the microscope were replaced
by crossed strips of light blue gelatin filter, with a scratch longi-
tudinally down the centre of each, giving a field of view as shown
in Figure V. As can be seen from this illustration, the scratches
1952] Two Series of PK Tests on Paramecia 585
take the place of the cross wires and the width of filter on each side
of the scratch is about the width of a paramecium when viewed
under X75 magnification.
All scores were to be noted down as usual, and in addition all
those in which the paramecium was within, or partly within, the
area covered by the filter strips at the end of the 15-second period.
If misjudgements were made to favour a high score within the
filter area, the average scoring rate for results within this area
would be higher than for results in which the paramecium was else-
where in the field, so that comparison of average scores within and
Figure VI
Fifteen-second Delay Circuit
Before the beginning of a trial the linked switches Si and S2 are as shown in
the figure, and the condenser is discharged through the resistance Ri. When a
trial is due to begin, Si is pressed on (automatically releasing S2), and the con-
denser takes 1 5 seconds to charge up to the striking voltage of the neon (no volts).
The neon then flashes, flooding the field of view with red light and a spot
judgment can easily be made.
outside the filter area would detect any misjudgement near the
dividing line.
In addition to errors on the dividing line, misjudgements could
also be made in timing the 15-second period, and this also could
be made unconsciously to favour the score. This would apply
almost entirely where no assistance was used in timing the period.
To get over this difficulty while working alone, a neon indicator
tube was strapped immediately under the microscope slide, to
which the 15-second delay circuit shown in Figure VI was con-
nected to enable a spot judgement to be made.
586 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
RESULTS OF THE SECOND SERIES ;
This series consists of 701 'attempts' and 701 'controls', the
'controls' being made after every 5 or every i 'attempt'. The differ-
ence between these was only one of personal convenience ; the scor- |
ing shows no advantage to either. Making 5 'attempts' and then |
5 'controls' made the better working rhythm. The deviations ob- j
tained are plotted in Figure VII and the final results are shown in
Table I.
Of the 444 successes in the 'attempt' runs, 253 were in the
desired direction and 191 in the diametrically opposite one (Devia-
tion + 93'5 ; C.R. +7-06; percentage success 26-7). In the
'control' runs there is a negative deviation of 15-5 (C.R. - 1-17).
Of 501 'attempts' which were made with the guarding procedure,
96 ended within the guarded area, giving an average deviation of
+ 10-4 per ICQ trials. The remaining 405 trials gave an average
deviation of +I3'7 per 100, showing that the scoring is, if any-
thing, slightly disfavoured by judgements near the dividing line.
106 trials were made using a magnification of x 25 instead of the
usual X 75 (Figure VII). The results of these were markedly 1
poor, only 58 out of 106 being successes (Dev. +5). This low j
scoring agrees with an impression obtained during the tests that j
the first impulse of influence appears to be the strongest, and that its
maintenance during the whole 15-second period is difficult.
When a X 75 magnification is used, the paramecium often leaves
the field of view during the first half of the attempt period (when
the departure quadrant is scored), and in consequence the first
part of any influence the experimenter has will have more effect.
During the trials using x 25 magnification, the paramecium very
rarely left the field of view during the whole 15 seconds, and the
effort to influence it had to be maintained for the whole period.
CONSIDERATION OF THE RESULTS OF THE SECOND SERIES
The high rate of success in the 'attempt' runs, the general
straightness of the plot (Figure VII) (discounting the period of
x 25 magnification), and the small negative deviation in the 'con-
trol' runs, is in keeping with the explanation put forward for some
of the secondary effects in the first series (page 583).
The results of the tests using x 25 magnification indicate that <\
this is a fairly critical factor with which the length of test period ^
may be interdependent.
u
The first part of the 'control' curve of the first and second series
(Figures II and VII) bears a similarity which is worth noting, al- ,
though no conclusions may be drawn from only two such results.
^
1952] Two Series of PK Tests on Paramecia 587
When more tests of this nature have been made it will be possible
to see whether this form occurs to a significant extent.
O CO
El
H w
< n
p
+ 90
+ 80
+ 70
+ 60
+ 50
0+40
%
g+30
+ 20
+ 10
0
- 10
-20
CO
lAGNI
-*—
25
FICAI'I
1 ON
100 200 300 400
TOTAL TESTS
TJPWAED CURVE: "ATTEMPT"
DOWNWABD CURVE: "CONTROL"
500 600 700
Figure VII
Deviations from Chance in Series II
CONCLUSION
The overall results of these two series of tests are tabulated in
Table I. These results show that throughout the whole experi-
ment an average of approximately every fourth failure predicted by
probability calculation has become a success.
The absence of an overall decline in successes may be related
to the procedure of making a second and contemporary series
of tests in which no conscious effort is made to influence the
588 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
score. This, together with the practice of allowing diametrically
opposite results as successes without prejudicing the statistical
procedure, may have the effect of reducing or eliminating the
causes of decline, which are probably psychological.
If the faculties of ESP and PK are accepted, however, there is
the possibility of results being biassed by these abilities in favour
of a theory held by the experimenter ; successes being uncon-
sciously reduced under circumstances in which the theory may
predict chance results. The lack of reproduceability in this type
of work makes it very difficult to find out whether this occurs or
not, but unless such secondary effects are found to be generally
reproduceable they cannot be taken as more than reflections of the
psychological situation in the experiment in which they occur.
AN EXPERIMENT IN THE ELECTRO-
ENCEPHALOGRAPHY OF MEDIUMISTIC
TRANCE
By C. C. Evans and Edward Osborn
introduction
If it be accepted {a) that in mediumistic trance information has
been given which could not have been obtained by normal means,
and [b) that the trance state is an essential factor in the process, it
is important that inquiry should be made into the nature of the
trance itself. Even if the genuineness of the phenomena be
regarded as open to question, it is still of interest to try to discover
whether the mediumistic trance possesses distinctive features of
its own.
There are those who regard it as a state of hysterical dissocia-
tion, in which 'a greater or smaller part of the personality takes
command and dictates the general behaviour, the rest of the normal
personality becoming apparently incapable of consciousness for
the time being and having no influence on conduct'.^ It has also
been described as a state of 'self-induced hypnosis'. Such
opinions have been based on personal judgements, because no
objective evidence has been available. It was in an attempt to
provide data whose interpretation would not depend on individual
assessment that an exploratory experiment with the electro-
^ Henderson and Gillespie, A Text-book of Psychiatry, 7th ed. (London,
Oxford University Press, 1950), p. 179.
1952] The Electro-encephalography of Mediumistic Trance 589
encephalograph ^ was carried out in the Society's rooms on 20
and 21 September 1951. Although the electro-encephalograph
has been used for chnical purposes for some years, the principal
difficulty has been to find as subjects for experiments mediums
whose trance is regarded as genuine and who are able to enter the
trance state in the conditions required for the recording of the
E.E.G. The experimenters were fortunate in securing the full
co-operation of Mrs Eileen Garrett as subject, and welcome this
opportunity of thanking her publicly for making possible what is
believed to be the first experiment of its kind to be carried out in
this country.
A few general remarks about the E.E.G. may be helpful. The
electrical activity of the cortex consists of more or less continuous
rhythmic fluctuations of potential. In normal adults, awake,
relaxed, and with eyes closed, the brain rhythm, in the absence of
specific stimulation, ranges in frequency from 8 to 13 cycles per
second, with an average of about 10 c/s., while the amplitude may
fluctuate spontaneously. Both frequency and amplitude vary from
individual to individual, and to some extent within the E.E.G. of
a single individual. This rhythm, which is known as the alpha
rhythm, is suppressed by attention or perception. During the
process of going to sleep, marked changes occur in the E.E.G.
The various stages may be described in general terms as follows :
{a) relaxed and resting, but awake—normal alpha rhythm, followed
by diminution of amplitude ;
{b) drowsy, entering the stage of
light sleep—the alpha rhythm fades away and short spindles of
faster activity often appear, followed by slow waves of 4 to 5 c/s. ;
(c) real sleep—spindle-shaped bursts of waves, about 14 c/s.,
appear, and slow waves increase in magnitude and decrease in
frequency ;
[d) deep sleep—spindles disappear, and slow waves
become very large and very slow, less than i c/s.
In cases of hysterical dissociation there is no change in the
alpha rhythm. It is also regarded as established that in hypnosis
the E.E.G. shows none of the characteristics present in sleep
records. If, therefore, the E.E.G. in mediumistic trance were not
in accordance with these findings—and there are reports ^ which
give reason for thinking that this may be so—this would indicate
^ The electro-encephalograph is an instrument for recording the
electrical activity of the cerebral cortex. Electrical discharges, picked up
by electrodes normally placed on the scalp, are amplified about a million-
fold and activate inkwriting oscillographs which trace records on a
moving strip of paper. The resulting record is known as an electro-
encephalogram—E.E.G. for short.
' For example, Thomson, Forbes, and Bolles, 'Brain potential rhythms
in a case showing self-induced apparent trance states', Amer.J. Psychiat.,
1937, 93, 1313-14-
590 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
that it was not identical with hysterical dissociation or the hypnotic
state.
Those who took part in the experiment were Dr C. C. Evans,
head of the Department of Electro-physiology at Belmont Hos-
pital, Sutton, Surrey ; Dr E. B. Strauss, Physician for Psycho-
logical Medicine at St Bartholomew's Hospital, London ; F. Wil-
son, of the Development Laboratory of the Edison Swan Electric
Company ; and Mrs K. M. Goldney and Edward Osborn, both
members of the Council of the Society. The Council are greatly
indebted to the Edison Swan Electric Company for lending an 8-
channel electro-encephalograph and frequency analyser for the
experiment.
E. O.
EXPERIMENTAL SET-UP
An 8-channel ink-writing recorder was used in conjunction
with a frequency analyser.^ Six channels were used to record the
E.E.G., while another recorded the E.C.G.^ and another the
P.G.R.3
The 6 E.E.G. channels could be arranged to record either in one
continuous chain extending from low down on the right temporal
area, up over the vertex and down to the left temporal area ;
or,
alternatively, in two parallel rows each about 2 inches from, and
on opposite sides of, the mid-line, and running in the A.P. direc-
tion, each row utilising 3 channels.
The subject was seated in a chair for all experiments, and a
microphone close by recorded all conversations and utterances on a
magnetic tape recorder. At 30-second intervals a time signal was
recorded simultaneously on the sound track (through a second
microphone) and on the E.E.G. record for the purpose of syn-
chronising the two records.
^ An instrument which resolves a compound wave form into its simple
sinusoidal components. The E.E.G. often contains several oscillations
of different frequency compounded together, and sometimes it is re-
quired to know the actual frequencies of the components present, in
addition to seeing the composite wave form.
^ The electrocardiogram is a record of the electrical changes accom-
panying the muscular contractions of the heart, and in this case was
recorded to observe the changes in the heart rate during the various
phases of the experiment.
^ The psychogalvanic-reflex depends on the changes of electrical
resistance of the skin which accompany changes in the emotional state of
the subject under test. Any stimulus word given, or other sound or
situation which causes emotional change in the subject, results in a
deflection of the recording instrument which is beyond voluntary control
of the subject. ......
1952] The Electro-encephalography of Mediumistic Trance 591
Recordings were made on the two successive evenings of 20 and
21 September 1951, and the sequence of events and results of both
occasions will be dealt with in turn.
20 September
Preliminary samples of the resting E.E.G. were taken, with the
subject seated in a chair but not attempting to go into the trance
state. Recordings were made for 7 minutes with the electrodes
arranged in the A.P. lines, and then for 6 minutes in the trans-
verse plane.
The resting record was of low voltage, and showed an alpha
rhythm of 11 c/s. dominant, but this was poorly maintained, and
at times was absent altogether. Traces of faster activity (beta
A.P. arrangement Transverse arrangement
rhythm) and of slower activity (theta rhythm) were also present at
times, but without any definite localization. The record is rather
lacking in any decisive rhythm or in localization of specific
features, and in that respect does not lend itself readily to accurate
or detailed description. Such inhibition of alpha rhythm is often
caused by mental apprehension or by the subject taking a vital
interest in the proceedings, and being unable to relax sufficiently.
This factor was probably partly responsible for the low voltage of
the activity, as at the end of the experiment, just before switching
off, the amplitude of alpha activity was greater than at the start.
It was decided that the A.P. arrangement for recording was the
most informative, and recording was continued thus while the
subject was asked to go into trance. In this phase a coarse tremor
of the eyes and eyelids became apparent, and was recorded as an
artefact in the frontal leads of the E.E.G. ; this eye tremor re-
592 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
mained a constant feature of the trance state. There was also
increase in the muscular tone of the arm, which probably reflected
a generalised increase of muscle tone. This was recorded as an
artefact in the channel recording the P.G.R. from the hand and
wrist, and, com.bined with clenching movements, completely
masked any P.G.R. response.
The heart rate rose from about 93 during the resting record to
about 105 during the commencement of the trance state, and there
was much yawning.
After about 2 minutes, the alleged Control 'Uvani' began to
make some utterances, and it was assumed that trance had com-
menced.
For the sake of clarity, the sequence of events is given below
with the times of occurrence :
Time
Zero Subject asked to go into trance—pronounced eye
tremor, yawning, increased muscle tone and move-
ments, increase of heart rate. No appreciable change
in E.E.G.
+ 2 mins. First utterances of Uvani heard, and Mrs Goldney
establishing a conversation.
+ 4 mins. Uvani talking freely about Harry Price, and continued
to do so for some while.
No appreciable change in the eye tremor, nor muscle
tone nor E.E.G. Subject now less restless.
+ 7' 20" Uvani asked by Mrs Goldney to try and relax the
muscles and eyes of the medium but without any change
resulting.
+ 8' 20" Mrs Goldney inquired whether Uvani considered the
state of trance light or deep, and the reply was that he
'thought the trance was light'.
+ 8' 40" Subject becoming more restless—much movement
artefact on P.G.R. channel. Pulse 108. E.E.G. no
appreciable change—low voltage as seen in the initial
recording.
+ 9' 20" Uvani now asked by Mrs Goldney to remain present
but to be silent for a while, and to try to keep the
medium still. This was followed by a marked reduc-
tion in the eye tremor.
+ 9' 50" The first significant change in the E.E.G. was observed.
The amplitude increased by about 100% and 4-5 c/s.
activity appeared in conjunction with rather unstable
alpha rhythm in all channels. The increase in cortical
activity persisted for about 30 seconds until the silence
1952] The Electro-encephalography of Mediumistic Trance 593
was broken by Mrs Goldney speaking again. The
pulse rate fell to about 93.
+ 10' 20" Mrs Goldney speaks, and the E.E.G. resumes its for-
mer character.
+ 10' 40" Mrs Goldney asks Uvani to open the medium's eyes,
and a few seconds later Mrs Goldney opens them with
her own fingers. There is no significant change in the
E.E.G. , but the eye tremor temporarily increases in
frequency, and muscle artefacts become superimposed
on the frontal channels.
+ 11' 30" Eyes closed again, and Uvani asked to remain silent as
before. In spite of a longer period of silence lasting
i' 40", no increase of amplitude was observed as before.
+ 13' 10" Mrs Goldney again speaks to Uvani. Eye tremor now
increases in amplitude. E.E.G. remains essentially the
same.
+ 14' 30" Uvani asked by Mrs Goldney to leave the subject
temporarily, her other Control, 'Abdul Latif', requested
to take control.
+ 15' 30" Uvani still present—asked again to call Abdul Latif.
+ 16' 20" Silence—awaiting Abdul Latif.
+ 17' o" Medium sighing—head bent forward. Eye tremor
moderate. Pulse rate 105. E.E.G. low voltage and as
in preliminary record.
+ 18' 10" Medium raises head and becomes more restless.
Muscle tone increases.
+ 18' 40" Laughing. Abdul Latif takes control, and remains
talking for nearly 2 minutes, during which time the in-
creased muscle tone remains present.
+ 20' 20" Abdul Latif requested to remain present, but be silent
for a while—no appreciable change in record, except for
reduction of movement artefact.
+ 21' 10" Abdul Latif invited to talk again.
+ 23' 10" Eye tremor and frontal muscle artefacts pronounced.
Dr Strauss requests Abdul Latif to relax medium's
tremor, but no appreciable change is recorded.
+ 23' 45" Abdul Latif asks Dr Strauss to place his fingers on the
medium's eyelids, but again no appreciable relaxation
is obtained.
+ 25' o" Mrs Goldney requests Abdul Latif to leave, and allow
medium to come out of trance.
A noticeable decrease of the eye tremor and muscle
artefact followed this request.
26' 26" Sudden increase in movements and muscle tension.
Medium sighing, and coming out of trance.
594 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
+ 26' 55" Out of trance. Eye tremor and muscle tremor artefacts
disappear temporarily, and spontaneous brain rhythms
show some increase.
+ 27' 10" Burst of normal alpha rhythm of about 2 seconds dura-
tion, of the greatest amplitude yet recorded in this
experiment. Traces of low voltage theta rhythms are
still present.
+ 28' 10" Recording ceased.
21 September
This session again began with recording in the 'normal' state
with the A.P. grouping of electrodes as used previously. After
some minutes of relatively low voltage and ill-defined activity, as
recorded at the commencement of the previous session, the alpha
rhythm became more prominent, and approximately 30 seconds
later some 5 c/s. theta rhythm appeared, mainly in the parieto-
occipital leads, either replacing normal alpha rhythm or else super-
imposed on it. This phase lasted some 15 seconds, and gradually
disappeared, leaving once again the lower voltage and irregular
rhythms as seen at the start. Pulse rate was approximately 70.
This change, involving increase of amplitude and the presence of
slower frequencies, and also considerable reduction of eye tremor
artefact, was similar to that described in the first experiment, when
the Control was asked to remain silent on the first occasion. This
time, however, the medium was not in trance.
After several more minutes recording, no further changes
occurred, and Dr Strauss began to induce the hypnotic state.^
The immediate response to this was a violent temporary increase
in the eye movement artefacts, but no significant change occurred
in the E.E.G. throughout the period of hypnosis.
Hypnosis commences—no significant E.E.G. change.
Considered to be in the hypnotic state.
Dr Strauss suggests that Mrs Garrett shall pass from
hypnotic 'sleep' into real sleep.
Silence—no E.E.G. change.
Silence still maintained—-no E.E.G. change. Dr
Strauss now suggests that Mrs Garrett shall pass back
from 'real' sleep to hypnotic 'sleep'. No significant
E.E.G. change.
^ Mrs. Garrett had, according to her own statement, been hypnotised
on several previous occasions. In a preliminary test before this session
began, she appeared to respond to hypnotic suggestions given by Dr
Strauss. The other experimenters were not present at the time.
Time
Zero
+ l'20"
+ 4' O"
+ 4' 40"
+ 7' 40"
1952] The Electro-encephalography of Mediumistic Trance 595
+ 9' 30" Dr Strauss now suggests Mrs Garrett shall pass into the
trance state.
+ 9' 45" Movements and yawning. At times some well-defined
II c/s. alpha rhythm in the E.E.G.
+ 11' 10" Mrs Goldney asks, 'Is that you, Uvani?' Eye move-
ment artefacts more prominent.
+ 11' 40" Uvani replies, speaking slowly.
+ 12' 20" Uvani talking. Muscle tension increased, and showing
as artefact on P.G.R. channel. Eye movement artefacts
increased.
+ 13' 50" A cushion placed under Mrs Garrett's arms to give
more comfortable support, in an attempt to reduce the
muscle artefact in the P.G.R. channel.
+ 14' 26" Dr Strauss gives 'suggestion' that the arms become
more relaxed—no appreciable result.
+ 15' 10" Mrs Goldney talking to Uvani. Muscle and eye move-
ment artefacts still present, and no appreciable change
in the general E.E.G. pattern.
+ 17' 40" Uvani still talking.
+ 20' o" Mrs Goldney talking with Uvani.
+ 22' o" Uvani asked to remain silent for a while.
+ 22' 22" Increase in amplitude of rhythms by about 100% and
also increase in the slower components at about 5-6 c/s.
+ 23' o" Gradual and spontaneous return to original amplitude
and pattern of rhythms.
+ 23' 5" Dr Strauss talking to Uvani; suggests that he should
leave, and that the medium should transfer again to the
hypnotic state. No appreciable E.E.G. change.
+ 24' 20" Medium now out of trance, but in hypnotic state and
told to wake in one minute's time.
+ 26' 30" Opening eyes and general movements—awake. No
significant change in E.E.G.
+ 28' o" Recording ceased.
SUMMARY
The E.E.G., as already stated, is of low voltage and at times
shows some 11 c/s. alpha rhythm but at other times is unstable
and no clearly defined rhythms can be described.
A slight but significant change occured on three occasions in the
two sittings : (i) while taking a sample of 'normal' record before
the trance state and in silence ; (2) and (3) while in trance but
with the Control silent.
The change was characterised by a fairly sudden increase of
amplitude, of about 100%, ahhough the voltage was low through-
596 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
out all records, and by the appearance of 5-6 c/s. activity, which
was most prominent in the parietal areas. On one occasion this
new pattern disappeared when the Control was addressed, while
on the two other occasions it disappeared spontaneously. As this
changed pattern occurred out of trance as well as in trance, it can
not be claimed that it is related to the trance state. A condition
common to the three occurrences was silence. Spontaneous
changes in the E.E.G. are often caused by the subject becoming
temporarily drowsy, and this may be the explanation of the
changes observed in these experiments.
There was no significant E.E.G. change when the subject went
into or came out of either the trance state or the hypnotic state.
Eye tremor and muscular tension appeared to be maximal in the
trance states.
The P.G.R. readings were masked by movement artefacts to
such an extent as to be unreliable, and are therefore ignored as
such.
In conclusion, I would stress that this is only a factual account
of preliminary tests carried out on one individual, and that no
claims are made to prove nor disprove the genuineness of medium-
istic trance by this means.
C. C. E.
REVIEWS
West African Psychology : a comparative study of psycho-
logical and religious thought. By G. Parrinder. London,
Lutterworth Press, 1951. (Lutterworth Library, Vol.
XXXVII) ix, 220 pp. 25s.
In this volume Dr Parrinder, who was for some years doing
missionary work in French West Africa and is now at University
College at Ibadan, discusses and summarises the various psycho-
logical and religious beliefs of some West African peoples. Al-
though the book is really a summary of such beliefs, Dr Parrinder
shows himself well aware of the linguistic pitfalls into which so
many anthropologists have fallen. He points out that there is
something to be said for the African view that white people cannot
understand things that Africans know, and that when their beliefs
are described in a European language, the idea in the translator's
mind may be very dilTerent from what the African actually thinks.
From the point of view of the psychical researcher the book
1952] Reviews 597
contains much of interest, although it is clear that Dr Parrinder
has not attempted any really serious investigation. He notes the
presence of phenomena which may be classed under such headings
as possession, hypnotism, telepathy, and clairvoyance, and has a
good deal to say on African dreams and their interpretation accord-
ing to modern Western standards. He points out that the mechan-
ism of the African mind is not different from that of the West, but
that what is different is environment and tradition, a fact which
ought never to be lost sight of when dealing with mediumship
amongst African or Oriental peoples. But even when we take
these things into account, it would seem that investigation, even
though it be slight, indicates that the search for the supernormal in
Africa might be as unrewarding as it is in Europe. Thus, in
quoting the account of Dr Field's work amongst the Ga people,
the author shows that, in cases of glossolalia, knowledge of foreign
tongues seems to proceed from the medium's subconscious
memories or from words and sentences which have been over-
heard.
As a succinct account of the main features of West African
psychology and religious ideas this book is useful, and it is to be
hoped that later Dr Parrinder will be able to describe in greater
detail some of those features which it is the duty of the psychical
researcher to examine in whatever part of the world they may be
found.
E. J. Dingwall
Mental Prodigies. By Fred Barlow. London, Hutchinson,
1951. 256 pp. I2S. 6d.
This is a fascinating and long overdue account of the extra-
ordinary calculating feats performed by certain gifted individuals
who have attracted public attention from time to time during the
last 200 years. Many of them, such as Zerah Colburn, were at the
height of their powers as young children and lost the ability when
they reached maturity. Occasionally, as with George Parker
Bidder, the power was retained in adult life. Most of us have
heard of these two, but Barlow brings upwards of twenty others to
our notice in chronological order. With Miss Shakuntala Devi
(born 1920), who appeared recently on television, he brings us
up to date.
Many instances of the remarkable calculating achievements are
given—for example, Colburn named the cube root of 41 3, 993 '34^'
677 in five seconds (answer, 7453). Johann Dase of Hamburg mul-
tiphed 79,532,853 by 93,758,479 in 54 seconds. Maurice Dagbert
of Calais raised 89 to the sixth power (496,981,290,961) in 10
598 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
seconds and gave the number of seconds in 58 years, allowing for
leap-years, in 23 seconds (answer, 1,830,297,600).
Barlow devotes a chapter to considering the modus operandi of
the various prodigies. (There is almost a virgin field here for
experiment.) Few of them were able to analyse the workings of
their own brains. Bidder, however, says : 'If I am asked the pro-
duct of, say, 89 by 73, the answer (6497) comes immediately into
my mind. I muhiply 80 by 70, 80 by 3, 9 by 70 and 9 by 3,'
Dagbert and others made much use of mnemonics and in a later
chapter the author reveals to us some of the secrets of stage
'mentalists'. For example, any reader can learn in a few minutes
how to astonish his friends by giving with lightning speed the day
of the week for any date from 1753 to 2,000 a.d. The Giant
Memory Act, practised by many magicians, is also revealed and
Mr Barlow's own private code is a very ingenious one.
There are chapters on arithmetical recreations and magic
squares which lie rather outside the author's chosen theme, but
they make very interesting reading, and indeed entertaining and
startling facts and stories worthy of quotation can be found on
every other page.
D. P.
Unseen Adventures. By Geraldine Cummins. London, Rider,
1951. 183 pp. 15s.
Members of the S.P.R. will welcome this book, written by a
lady who has the rare distinction of being a contemporary auto-
matist of repute. Like Mrs Osborne Leonard and Mrs Piper,
Geraldine Cummins has invited scientific examination and
criticism. Both she and her collaborator and recorder, the late
Miss Gibbes, deserve the commendation and appreciation of all
students of psychical research for their work in its cause.
But on the evaluation of her pubhshed work many of us will
part company with Miss Cummins.
On page 46 of her book, she says : 'My extra sense has not
merely related these correct facts, which were unknown to me, it
has also insisted that these messages come from people who are
dead. Why does my extra or sixth sense invent this falsehood.?
For it is a falsehood if the dead do not survive.' Then on page 133
we read : 'I am suspicious of the inventive powers of my sub-
conscious mind.' Alas, the history of psychical research shows
how well founded are her suspicions!
For people who are inclined to oversimplify the problem of
mediumship, a perusal of the Smead Case in the Proceedings of the
American S.P.R. and in our own Proceedings 'The Psychology of
Mrs Piper's Trance', by Mrs Sidgwick, will give them cause to
Reviews 599
reflect. Mrs Smead, a non-professional medium, was the wife of
a clergyman who was himself a keen student of psychical research.
Mrs Smead went into trance and the information given in this
state invariably claimed to come from the dead. Professor Hyslop
was satisfied that the trance condition was genuine, but the facts
clearly pointed to subliminal impersonation, and in this lengthy
verbatim record there quite clearly emerges evidence that however
honest and worthy a medium may be consciously, the danger of
subconscious fabrication is always a factor with which we must
reckon. The object of this paper was to illustrate the adapt-
ability of the subconscious to the requirements of so-called com-
munication. Mrs Sidgwick's detailed analysis of the Piper
mediumship made it obvious that there were excellent reasons for
refusing to accept the 'communications' at their face value. Con-
trary to a common view, and one apparently shared by Miss Cum-
mins, mediumship has by no means been neglected by officers
of the S.P.R. The fact is, it often raises far more problems than
it solves.
Since those papers were written, further progress has been
made. On page 29 Miss Cummins states : 'My communicators
on the whole fail, while I am fairly successful in prophecy. . . .
Their gross inaccuracy was to me evidential of a separate entity
from myself using my hand. . .
.' With this statement we need
not concern ourselves. Nevertheless, it is evident that Miss
Cummins regards precognition as strengthening the evidence for
communication, but thanks to the work of Rhine, Soal, Carington
and others, it has come to be regarded as experimentally estab-
lished—in other words it is a form of E S P. Most of the sensitives
employed by Osty never claimed to be in touch with the dead, yet
not only were they able to acquire knowledge paranormally, but
they were also successful in predicting events in the lives of people
with whom they were able to make contact.
It must be undue modesty which causes Miss Cummins to
describe herself as 'slow of speech and an uninformed conversa-
tionalist'. A moderately successful authoress and playwright
must be thought to possess an imagination capable of being
drawn on. It is not difficult to conceive that the possession of
ESP in addition could produce almost anything, and we need not
necessarily postulate an extraneous personality to account for the
material, however striking.
On the other hand, the case of 'Marguerite Foote' mentioned in
the Appendix to the book, which was originally printed in the
Journal, is impressive. If an investigator is satisfied that the
evidence from psychical research taken as a whole reveals an
apparently non-physical level of the personality, capable of sur-
6oo Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
viving the dissolution of the body, then he might regard this as
one of those rare cases pointing significantly to communication
from the dead. He would, however, want much more informa-
tion than is contained in the printed report.
Miss Cummins devotes a chapter to psychometric and healing
experiments. The few examples of psychometry given do not
justify specific conclusions, but in respect to healing Miss Cum-
mins says : 'The proof of the pudding is in the eating.' Unfor-
tunately we not only have an intangible pudding in this instance,
but a purely hypothetical one. Patients were said to have been
cured. It may very well have been the effect on the minds of the
uninitiated of a few paranormally acquired facts which made them
more susceptible to constructive suggestion. In the light of our
present knowledge, however, we can only maintain the pro-
verbially 'open mind'.
All students of psychical research should make a point of read-
ing this book, not only because it is interesting but because we can
trust Miss Cummins to give us the facts accurately. We are all at
liberty to form our own conclusions.
Leah Longman
More than Meets the Eye. By James Langham. With an
Introduction by Lord Dunsany. London, Evans, 1951.
xii, 214 pp. lUus. I2S. 6d.
This book is written in a popular style and is not intended for
the expert. Within the limits which he has set himself, Mr Lang-
ham gives a very fair picture of the various types of phenomenon
which have intrigued and puzzled men through the ages. He
includes a description of modern methods of conducting ESP
experiments and a short summary of research carried out in this
field. There is even a chapter dealing with hoaxes which have
been perpetrated on the Society for Psychical Research.
Under the heading 'Some Stage Mysteries' Mr Langham dis-
cusses various stage mystery acts and comments that, while the
majority of such entertainers do not claim psychic faculties, the
Piddingtons are an exception to the extent of their statement, 'So
far as we are concerned, telepathy works'. This would rather
seem to depend on just what meaning the Piddingtons attach to
the word 'telepathy'. Mr Langham could have pointed out that
this statement is a good example of the technique used by stage
'mind-readers' to encourage belief in their possession of special
powers. Avoiding any direct claim, they make ambiguous pro-
nouncements, and in next to no time the uncritical credit them
with psychic faculties. Members of the Magic Circle have
1952] Reviews 601
assured me that a skilful illusionist can duplicate and even im-
prove on all the turns in the Piddingtons' repertoire.
From 'magicians' he turns to the study of the minds of animals
and states that while various animals are capable of realizing
instinctively the power of man and the demands made upon them,
it is the dog and horse that usually 'react' with greater speed and
versatility, presumably because of their long familiarity with men's
ways. I am not sure from this remark whether we are meant to
presume the inheritance of this acquired characteristic. How-
ever this may be, he goes on to review a number of classic cases of
calculating horses and talking dogs and other animals as well as
some more modern ones.
Up to this stage of the book, Mr Langham has generally just
stated the known or reported facts, has pointed out any gaps there
may be in our knowledge of what occurred, and left the reader to
draw his own conclusions without any comment from himself.
From this stage on, however, one finds such comments as, 'I
believe her story to be true although it is not corroborated by
documentary evidence' (p. 108) or 'Both . . . are "second-hand",
but I have no reason to doubt their authenticity' (p. 137). This is
after earlier chapters where he has pointed out the essential
requirements on which to base evidence. Mr Langham is, of
course, as entitled to his own ideas as any of us, but it seems rather
a pity that he should abandon the purely objective statement.
Some of his ideas come out incidentally and it is rather startling
to find (p. 139) the phrase 'as the dreamer enters the body . .
.'.
There has been no mention of astral travelling, but it makes one
wonder.
Ghosts and poltergeists are dealt with in the penultimate chap-
ter, while the last is simply entitled 'The Future Can Be Seen' and
is mainly composed of reported cases of 'Second Sight' from the
past.
There is a Bibliography and complete acknowledgement of
sources and of help given by the Society.
Blemishes in the book are few and unimportant, and it is
greatly to be desired that all popular expositions of the subject
should give as objective a picture to the general public of the state
of present knowledge concerning matters pertinent to psychical
research.
H. S.
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research.
Vol. 45, No. 4, October 1951. New York, A.S.P.R. $1.50.
In honour of an English Quaker who settled in the United
States and who was interested in psychical research, the John
6o2 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
William Graham Lectures have been founded. The first of the
series was delivered in April 1951 by Professor C. J. Ducasse, one
of the A.S.P.R. Board of Trustees, who makes a scholarly and
penetrating survey of the whole field of paranormal phenomena.
He has some interesting things to say on the intellectual dilemma
which confronts many of us in the study of the work of Sir
Willi am Crookes (and elsewhere). 'In the face of this [the con-
ditions being beyond reproach], I submit that if, as indeed is the
case, I still find psychological difficulty in believing that the
levitations reported occurred, then there is for me only to confess
that my psychological reluctance to follow where the evidence
leads means that I am not as rational as I should be.'
Hereward Carrington in a short paper on Hypnosis gives his
opinion that from the point of view of educing paranormal powers
in hypnotic subjects, hypnotists have until now been barking up
the wrong tree. Instead of saying, 'You are sinking down deeper
and deeper into relaxed sleep, etc' they should say, 'You are
rising higher and higher into a superconscious realm, etc'
'An Unusual and Recurrent Experience' by Esther De Leau
describes a typical haunting of the 'evil presence' type. An
editorial comment by L.W.A. accords with my own assessment of
the report and expresses it a lot better than I could. It is not a
type of case that can be summarised briefly in a review.
D. P.
CORRESPONDENCE
'The Clairvoyant Theory of Perception'
Sir,—In reference to the review of my book, The Clairvoyant
Theory of Perception, in the Journal (November-December 1951)
the reviewer has, probably from lack of clearness of exposition on
my part, drawn certain inferences that are contrary to the tenets of
my thesis. Hence the following.
First of all, no theory can be expected to provide a full and
adequate explanation both in respect of normal and abnormal
conditions of vision. On the other hand, if the Clairvoyant Theory
is able to give a better explanation of vision in the case of the
majority of normal conditions but is held to fail in a few abnormal
conditions—and the conventional theories of vision are, as we
believe, incapable of adequately explaining even the majority of
nortnal conditions of vision—then, as a working hypothesis, it is,
1952] Correspondence 603
we would contend, preferable to the latter. My thesis is, as your
reviewer states, mainly a criticism of current theories of perception.
If they have any basis in fact and are valid, the above contention
[
of mine holds. I may cite here one of them, namely, the in-
adequacy of the conventional theories to explain the compound
vision of insects.
j
As an example of abnormal conditions, the reviewer of my book
states that distortion of clairvoyant vision due to cataract will not
fit into my theory. He says :
'
It seems to be a necessary con-
sequence of this theory that diseases of the nervous system
proximal to the retina should not affect vision. For if we consider
the case of progressive cataract, as long as a glimmer of light can
get through to the retina impulses will reach the cortex and there
exercise their powers of evocation on the mind.'
With reference to the above the following two examples may be
of interest. A resident of Nelson, New Zealand, had his lenses
removed for cataract and had in consequence to wear three kinds
of glasses, for long distance, middle distance, and short distance
(for reading). Some years after the operation he had occasion to
go to an optician to have the short glasses repaired. While the
optician was fitting the repaired glasses he had to leave the patient
to attend to a customer in an adjoining compartment. When he
returned he was amazed to see the patient reading (without
glasses) a pamphlet that happened to be lying on a table close
beside him. The optician asked him to read out several passages
in the pamphlet that he selected, and the patient accomplished this
task correctly. On being asked how he could read without the
glasses he replied that he had in the course of time and with prac-
tice come to see things both near and distant, and even to read a
book, but only for a short time as it brought on a headache. These
details I unfortunately only obtained after the patient had died at
the age of eighty years. I have every confidence in the truthfulness
and integrity of the optician as I had known him for several years.
A possible explanation of the above in terms of my theory
would be as follows. The patient had learnt mentally by training
to overcome the lack of well-defined and therefore weak stimula-
tions of the retinae from the removal of the lenses, but there
remained sufficient stimuli to initiate impulses up the optic
nerves to evoke clairvoyant sight from points of view at the
retinae.
I read a book some time ago entitled A Hypnotist's Case Book—
the name of the author I have forgotten, and as I am writing this
away from my home I cannot give it now—in which the author
claimed to have effected in one case a permanent cure of blindness
and in the second only an impermanent one. If the facts related
6o4 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [march
are genuine, they would seem to support the suggestion given
above.
{a) The case of a girl i6 years of age who was born only with a
small part of the outer periphery of the retina intact, and con-
sequently was totally blind. After a series of hypnotic treatments
lasting several months the patient began first to distinguish fairly
large block forms with no detail, then these forms gradually
assumed more definite details or characteristics, and at the end of
the treatment she perceived them in their natural colours, eventu-
ally acquiring approximate normal vision. She was very keen to
become a ballet dancer, and had so far recovered her sight after
this hypnotic treatment that she was accepted as a pupil in a dancing
academy, and eventually became a professional dancer in the ballet.
On the other hand, she was never able to read a printed page.
[h) The case of a woman who had normal sight up to middle age
and then became totally blind from '
white atrophy of both
retinae '. She attended the London Opthalmic Hospital, but was
informed that nothing could be done to restore her sight. After
a number of treatments in the form of hypnotic suggestion that
she could eventually see, in spite of the fact that not a vestige of a
healthy retina remained, she acquired the power of sight quite as
good, if not better, than before she became blind. But unfortu-
nately this power of sight diminished every hour after a treatment,
and in the course of a few days she became totally blind again.
After each treatment the same thing happened. The cure was
only temporary since there were no retinal stimulations and
consequently no evocation of clairvoyant sight.
If these two cures were actually effected by a succession of
mental hypnotic suggestions, they would seem to point to the
ability of the mind in respect of sight to overcome the diseased
conditions in the visual sensory organs, very much in the same
way as the rectification of damaged and diseased parts, and the
taking over vicariously of the functions of these parts by other
healthy parts in the process of growth of living organisms.
From the conventional standpoint, it is generally admitted that
visual perception is of a mental nature ; that is to say, visual
sensations of external material things are mental and not physio-
logical. The production of visual sensations by stimuli at the end
terminals of the optic nerves in the cortex is still a mystery for
science, and there are many other unexplained things in connection
with vision that have no satisfactory explanation in terms of the
conventional theories.
As evidence against my theory of vision, Dr Smythies mentions
certain abnormal cases such as bilateral vascular lesions of the
parietal lobe which produce inability to perceive simultaneously
ig^z] Correspondence 605
a number of external objects and in which right and left orientation
is entirely lost, which abnormal physiological conditions in the
brain cause '
the disorders of space perception directly, which is
the very position this theory was designed to avoid.'
I would reply that my theory does not reject the view that
abnormal physiological conditions in the brain may produce
abnormal effects in clairvoyant vision. For, if clairvoyance is a
mental faculty, such abnormal cerebral conditions as above would
naturally be expected to produce them. For instance, I cited in
my book how a drug such as santonin causes us to perceive
external objects as yellow instead of their proper colour. Thus,
in the case of ' vascular lesions of the parietal lobe '
we would hold
that their effects on vision may possibly be due to the lack of in-
tegration or correlation in respect to the cerebral processes.
Again, the inability to estimate distances and to recognise whether
an object is receding or approaching may be due to the patient not
being able to perceive more than one of two objects at a time.
Explanations on somewhat similar lines could be put forward
for Dr Smythies's other examples, namely from (i) to (5), which
for lack of space we cannot give here. Accordingly, my theory
does not entail ' that diseases of the nervous system proximal to the
retina should not affect vision ', which I exemplified in my explana-
tion of colour blindness and the effects of santonin.
With reference to the cases (a) and (b), I would classify (a) as
an abnormal example of what I call '
Common Perceptual Clair-
voyance '
or C.P.C. ; that is to say, it comes under the category
of ordinary visual perception since the fragments of the retinae
enabled a very small amount of neural impulses to reach the
brain. Case (b) comes under an entirely different category as there
is no stimulation at the retinae (the latter being non-existent) and
consequently there is no stimulation at the cortex. It might be
classified as a form of '
Travelling Clairvoyance ', which requires
no retinal stimulation. Thus, instead of a '
point of view '
outside
the body, the mind of the patient as a result of strong hypnotic
suggestion clairvoyantly sees from '
points of view '
at the retinae.
Moreover, since no neural impulses travel up the optic nerves to
the brain, the power of exercising '
Travelling Clairvoyance
'
cannot be sustained without repeated hypnotic suggestions.
I hope this letter will go some way in removing certain miscon-
ceptions of my theory, namely, that '
the distorted form of the
nervous stimuli arriving at the cortex consequent on the distortion
of the cornea and lens bears no relation to the subsequent dis-
ordered perception of the external world.'
M. M. MONCRIEFF,
Nelson, New Zealand.
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN
BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
Society for Psychical Research
31 Tavistock Square • London • WCi
SUPPLEMENT
TO
JOURNAL
March-April 1952, Vol. XXXVI, No. 669
FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR 1951
I. Our Seventieth Year
The Society, which came into being in February 1882, has now com-
pleted seventy years of existence. The Council feel this to be a suitable
occasion to pay a tribute to the memory of the men and women no
longer with us, many of them persons of the highest distinction, who
have promoted the Society's work both by taking an active part in it and
also by generous donations and bequests. They consider that they may
reasonably congratulate themselves and their fellow-members on the
number of those who have shown a desire in recent years to^ engage
actively in psychical research, and to assist the Society in its financial
difficulties. These causes for satisfaction are all the more notable in
view of conditions prevailing since the War which have increased the
burden of other work on most of our members and imposed very heavy
financial burdens on all. The serious economic position is reflected in
the increased number of resignations during the year. Although the
total of Members and Student-Associates elected in 195 1 was only one
less than in 1950, there has been a net decrease of 17 in the total mem-
bership (see p. xii).
The Council have for some time been considering plans for celebrating
the completion of the Society's seventieth year suitably, and an
announcement will shortly be made.
2. Research
The Home-testing ESP experiments organized by Mr G. W. Fisk
have continued, and a large quantity of data has been accumulated.
Contact has been made with experimenters as far afield as France,
Iceland, India, Nigeria, Sweden, and the United States of America.
The curious negative displacement scoring has persisted (see Journal
ii Supplement to Journal, March-April ig52
for November 1951) and all possible analyses are being made to try to
determine whether these scores represent a genuine phenomenon or a
mere statistical freak
A considerable number of tests have been made with a new technique
of differential scoring in ESP experiments in which '
Clock '
cards are
used. First results are certainly promising. The formidable mathe-
matical problems involved in the correct appraisal of results have been
tackled by Mr J. Fraser Nicol (now at Duke University) and by one of
our new members, Mr Alan Mitchell, to whose enthusiastic co-operation
we are deeply indebted. It is hoped to publish a preliminary report
shortly.
Two series of ESP tests have been carried out by Dr West using as
subjects psychotic patients in mental hospitals. A report for the
Journal is in preparation. An account of some earlier work with mental
patients has just been published in the Journal of Parapsychology, and
Dr Humphrey's report on her work in mental hospitals in London is
expected to be available shortly. It will be interesting to compare the
results of the various investigators.
Dr West is at present working on an experiment designed to investi-
gate the connexion between motivation and results in ESP tests.
It is gratifying to hear that ESP research is in progress in at least three
English Universities, Oxford, Durham, and Nottingham.
At Oxford, Mr William G. Roll, a member of the Society, has re-
ceived a grant from the Committee for Advanced Studies and is con-
ducting experiments in ESP under the supervision of Professor H. H.
Price. Collaborating with him are Mr B. Babington-Smith, Lecturer at
the Institute of Experimental Psychology, Dr F. B. Steiner, Lecturer in
the Department of Social Anthropology, and Dr R. Kosterlitz, Extra-
mural Lecturer in Psychology. Personality tests (the Bernreuter
Personality Inventory and the Rosenzweig Picture Frustration Test)
are given to each subject. At present the subjects are being tested for
ESP in their normal state ; it is proposed at a later stage to test them
under hypnosis.
In the University of Durham, Dr G. D. Wassermann, Lecturer in
Applied Mathematics at King's College, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, has
received a grant from the College to carry out ESP experiments. Ran-
domisation of targets will be effected by means of an electronic computer
which he has constructed.
In the University of Nottingham another member, Dr S. C. Wall-
work, a Lecturer in the Department of Chemistry, has been conducting
ESP experiments in conjunction with the electro-encephalograph. In
an attempt to see whether there is any correlation between successful
calls or sequences of successful calls and changes in the character of the
alpha rythm, the subject makes his calls with the recording electrodes
in position on his scalp. This type of experiment has its difficulties,
one of them being the need to find subjects who can be relied upon to
produce significant scores and who also have clearly defined alpha
rythms. The experiments, which followed a suggestion made by Dr
J. R. Smythies, must be regarded as exploratory at this stage.
Supplement to Journal, March-April ig^z iii
In September (as reported in the Supplement to the November 195
1
issue of the Journal) an experiment in the electro-encephalography of
mediumistic trance was carried out at 31 Tavistock Square. The
Council are greatly indebted to Mrs Eileen Garrett for acting as subject
and to the Edison Swan Electric Company for lending their latest
8-channel electro-encephalograph and a frequency analyser. This
experiment, which is believed to be the first of its kind to be attempted
in this country, may be of importance as a first step in a new approach
to some of the problems of trance mediumship. A report appears in the
Journal for March 1952. The magnetic tape-recorder used in this
experiment was the gift of Mr T. E. Wood, to whom the Council wish
to express their warmest thanks. This piece of equipment is indis-
pensable for mediumistic sittings and has many other important uses.
In September Mr A. J. Garratt, then physicist to the Festival of
Britain organization, and the staff of Ferranti Ltd kindly offered to
place at the disposal of the Society for experimental purposes the
'
Nimrod '
electronic computer set up in the Science Exhibition in
South Kensington. Mr Parsons was able to arrange two test sessions
and was fortunate enough to secure the co-operation of Mrs Gloria
Stewart, Dr R. H. Thouless, and Mrs Frank Heywood as subjects for
ESP and PK tests. The computer was specially modified by the Fer-
ranti engineers and provided a very convenient and attractive method of
presenting a random series of symbols. Unfortunately, no significant
results were obtained, and it proved impossible to arrange further
sessions before the Exhibition closed.
The Officers of the Society receive from time to time requests,
sometimes very urgent ones, to investigate poltergeists and other
phenomena of haunting at houses in various parts of the country. So
far as is practicable they meet all these requests in cases where there is
any prima facie reason to suppose that there is anything worth investi-
gating. It is not, however, always recognized by the persons making
these requests that compliance with them may involve several visits to a
distant place or of continuous residence on the spot by an experienced
investigator, and that this makes a very great demand on the time of the
investigator and is in present conditions ven,' expensive. Notwith-
standing these difficulties, a number of cases have been investigated,
but none of sufRcient interest to warrant a formal report. The Council
wish to thank members of the Society who have shown themselves
willing to co-operate in undertaking investigations in their own districts.
Many members will have read in the press about a poltergeist case in
West Norwood during July. Mr Augustus Greenfield and his family
were disturbed by poltergeist phenomena over a period of about five
weeks. The case, which was in many ways t^'pical, was ably followed
up for the Society' by Mr Thomas Greenwell, a member who lives in the
neighbourhood. We are also indebted to Mr Philip Paul, a journalist,
who provided some additional notes on the case.
In the psychic press much publicity has been accorded to the Super
Ray machine of the Spirit Electronic Communication Society, which
iv Supplement to Journal, March-April ig32
has its headquarters in Manchester. Under the influence of the Super
Ray, it is claimed, many people fall into trance and are controlled by
spirit entities. The nucleus of the apparatus is a glass-enclosed coil
said to have been invented by a Dutchman named Zwann. Mr Alan
Mitchell, a Bournemouth member of the Society with a considerable
laiowledge of electronics, reports that the device would not be expected
to produce any physiological effect. Another electrical engineer has
confirmed this. Dr P. H. Plesch kindly reported on the device in action
in Manchester. It had no effect on him personally, but he witnessed its
effect on others. He was not impressed, and there was no way of
distinguishing the effect of the machine from the influence of suggestion.
An Oxford County Engineer, Mr George De La Warr, received some
publicity during the year in connexion with his claim to have designed
a camera which photographs the past. It is said to be based on the
familiar idea that every animal, vegetable, and mineral substance has a
specific radiation. Mrs Oliver Gatty, a member of the Council, made
contact with Mr De La Warr, but owing to the cloak of secrecy which
surrounds his laboratory she was not able to make a full investigation.
Much publicity has lately been given in the press to psychic healing.
At the suggestion of the late Mr Abdy Collins, efforts have been made to
conduct an inquiry into the healing powers of Mr Harry Edwards, the
well-known spiritualist healer. At the instance of Mrs Goldney, the
Organizing Secretary, Dr Louis Rose, a London psychiatrist, has
agreed to carry out an investigation. This must be considered a long-
term project.
Two large meetings for platform clairvoyance from a well-known
medium were held on the Society's premises during the year in test
conditions. These involved a great deal of preliminary work and
subsequent analysis, and it is hoped that a report will be published later.
A great part of the Society's work throughout its history has depended
on the co-operation of persons appearing to have supernormal powers of
some kind, and willing to have those powers investigated under such
conditions as will exclude the sources of error that experience has
shown to be prevalent in the absence of proper precautions. Not-
withstanding widespread inquiries and strenuous efforts, the Council
have not recently been fortunate in finding suitable subjects for in-
vestigation in many of the traditional branches of psychical research.
In the Spring Dr Soal, accompanied by Mrs Soal, visited the United
States and spent some weeks at Duke University, where he worked on
an inquiry into '
position effects '
in Mrs Stewart's data (see report in
the Journal of Parapsychology, September 195 1). Dr Soal delivered
lectures at Yale University (Wooderson Foundation Lecture), Pittsburg
University (at a meeting sponsored by Sigma Xi) ; the College of the
City of New York, Psychology Dept. ; the American Society for
Psychical Research, New York ; the AH Universities Psychology Club
at Boston University ; the Washington Society for Psychical Research ;
Duke University ; and the University of North Carolina (Statistical
Dept.).
Supplement to Journal, March-April ig52 V
Members of the Society will be interested to learn that since August
Dr Soal has been engaged on a book entitled Modern Experiments in
Telepathy to be published under the authorship of himself and Mr F.
Bateman by Faber and Faber Ltd.
In May Mr J. Fraser Nicol, a member of the Council, joined the staff
of the Parapsychology Laboratory at Duke University. The Council
consider that Dr Soal's visit and Mr Fraser Nicol's work at Duke
University are likely to further the very fruitful collaboration that has
always prevailed between British and American psychical researchers.
Another officer of the Society who visited the Parapsychology
Laboratory was Mr Edward Osborn, Editor of the Journal, who spent
a few days at Duke University in June while on a short visit to the
United States.
3. Finance
The accounts show that the total excess of income over expenditure of
the three Funds (Blennerhassett, Research, and General) taken together
is £S6g. This is in spite of the fact that salaries show a considerable
increase over the year, owing to the appointment of Miss Nangie
(part-time) and the honorarium now being paid to the Editor of the
Journal. It must, however, be borne in mind that expenditure on
printing has been lower than usual, owing to the issue of fewer publica-
tions during the year, and that there has been little demand on the
Research Fund. Further, the Society may have to pay some ;^6oo in
death duties on the gift of ;£iooo made by the late Lord Rayleigh a few
years ago. A further anxiety is the question of the Society's future
premises when the present lease runs out in five years time.
The Society has been fortunate enough to receive several bequests
and gifts during the year. Among these may be mentioned a legacy of
£2°° from the estate of the late Miss May Walker, and a most generous
gift of .^100 from a member who wishes to remain anonymous.
The Council wish to express their warm appreciation of the donations
which many members regularly make in addition to the annual sub-
scription. In view of the fact that the subscription has not once been
increased during the past seventy years, such gifts are a valuable
addition to the Society's revenue. The Council earnestly hope that
more members will find it possible to make donations of this kind,
however small.
4. The Press and Broadcasting
More space than usual was devoted to articles on psychical research
in the popular press. In May and June a series of articles under the
heading of '
The Sixth Sense '
was published by the London evening
newspaper the Star. The articles were by a Star features writer,
Merrick Winn, who is a member of the Society, and technical advice
was given by Mr Denys Parsons. The subjcts covered were telepathy.
vi Supplement to Journal, March-April ig52
j
clain'oyance, apparitions, psycho-kinesis, and precognition. Spiritual-
ism and mediumistic phenomena were not included. Although the
articles had to be popular and entertaining in character, the author must I;
be commended for avoiding the sensational note which is so often
associated with popular articles on our subject. The articles were
followed by publication of spontaneous cases from readers' letters
extending over six weeks, one guinea being paid to the writer of each
letter published. About 2,000 letters were received by the Star, and
about 800 were published. A few cases which appeared promising
were followed up by members, but with disappointing results. Mr
Winn's articles were also printed by a number of provincial news-
papers.
Towards the end of the year, the Sunday Chronicle, the News Chronicle,
the Sunday Pictorial, and Reynolds Neios each published several articles
on the more sensational kinds of alleged paranormal phenomena. In
the United States, the mass-circulation magazine. Collier s, printed an
article by Robert Musel rather inappropriately entitled '
Can Man
Foresee the Future? '
This was based on material supplied by the
Society, but contained inaccuracies and was accompanied by drawings
which can scarcely be said to have contributed to an understanding of
the subject.
Psychical research was the subject of several B.B.C. broadcasts during
the year. On 27 July the Home Service programme included a dis-
cussion on telepathy, previously broadcast in the Midland Home
Service, the speakers including Dr S. G. Soal, Dr R. H. Thouless, and
Professor A. C. Hardy, all of whom are members of the Council. On
3 September Mrs K. M. Goldney gave a broadcast in the '
Books and
People '
programme of the '
London Calling Asia '
service of the
B.B.C. It was a general talk on psychical research, linked with a
review of Paul Tabori's book Harry Price : the biography of a ghost-
hunter. On the 19th and 26th of the same month Mr Antony G. N.
Flew, Lecturer in Philosophy at King's College, Aberdeen, and a mem-
ber of the Society, gave two talks in the Third Programme on '
The
Significance of Parapsychology ' (published in the Listener of 27
September and 4 October). During the summer Mr W. H. Salter
took part in a programme, broadcast in the Midland Home Service,
marking the centenary of the birth of Sir Oliver Lodge.
Psychical research also featured in the B.B.C's Television Service.
On II July Dr J. Bronowski and Anthony Barnett devoted the fourth
of a series of programmes called '
Enquiry into the Unknown '
to one
entitled ' Telepathy : is it fact or fake? ' This included a demonstration,
in which Mrs Gloria Stewart acted as percipient and Mr Denys Parsons
as agent, of one of the methods used in properly conducted ESP experi-
ments.
5. The Presidency
Dr S. G. Soal was re-elected President for a second year of office.
INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 1951
FREDERIC W. H. MYERS MEMORIAL FUND
JTEREST ON INVESTMENTS (GroSs)
ILES OF Lectures
Total Income
ess Expenditure :
Tenth Myers Memorial Lecture
Excess of Expenditure over Income for Year
BLENNERHASSETT RESEARCH FUND
oterest on Investment (Nett)
JCOME Tax Recoverable
Total Income
«j Expenditure :
Postages - - -
Excess of Income over Expenditure for Year
RESEARCH ENDOWMENT FUND
mREST on Investments (Nett) -
HCOME T.\x Recovered ant) Recoverable
Total Income .....
eii Expenditure :
Travelling and General Research Expenses -
Grant for Dr Betty Humphrey's Visit ...
Award to P. H. Marsh for ESP Experimental Work
Contributions towards General Fund :
Rent
Secretarial Assistant . . . _ .
Sittings with Mediums .....
Sundry Expenses ......
Grant to A. T. Oram ------
Excess of Income over Expenditure for Year
GENERAL FUND
obscriptions :
Members 1950
1951
Associates 1949
1950
1951
KOPORTioN OF Life Members' Subscriptions
nterest on Investments
nterest on Bank Deposit Account - - - .
ucome Tax Recovered and Recoverable ...
jlONTRIBUTION TOWARDS ReNT
Iontribution towards Secretarial Assistant's Salary
ublet Rent
£31
27
6 II
6 8
£58 13 7
115 4 II
£56 II 4
£24 7 2
20 19 2
£45 6 4
5 6
£45
£410 II
III 14
£522 5
48 6
62 10
34 10
112 8 6
1,394 5 II
£i,S06 14 5
I 15 I
10 16 II
94 4
1950
£31
10
£41
38
£3
£25
20
£45
£45
£413
1 10
£523
46
150
IS
I2S
3
£156 6 6 340
£365 18 10 £183
£1,613 10
52 10
225 o
3 8
55 o
62 10
34 10
162 10
5 £1,751
152
226
54
125
Total Ordinary Income
toNATIONS (Annual)
Life Members ...
Members ....
Associates ....
£2,208 19 2 £2,408
£20 17 II
219 7 6
14 8 o
toNATIONS as per Schedule
i.EGACY
RocEEDS OF Piper Fund ......
REPAYMENT OF DEPOSIT FOR PURCHASE OF LIBRARY BOOKS
ALE OF Books and Waste Paper .....
EES FROM Press, Film Company and Publishers -
254 13
104 1
1
300 o
3 2
74 I
317
83
225
32s
63
4
Total Income £2,945 8 6 £3.425
INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS (cont'd)
Total Income (brought forward)
Less Expenditure :
Office Expenses :
Rent ... -
Rates
Insurance ---------
Fuel and Lighting - - - - - - -
Salaries (Secretary, Organizing Secretary, Secretarial
Assistant, and Editor of Journal) - - - -
Clerical Assistance -------
Cleaning and Caretaker's Wages & Uniform
National Insurance -------
Stationery and General Printing -----
Telephone - -- -- -- -
Postages ---------
Repairs - -- -- -- --
Sundry Expenses -------
Cost of Printing and Binding Publications :
Proceedings -------
Journal -------
Binding -------
Other Books and Pamphlets - - - -
(f2,945 8 6
1950
Less Proceeds of Sales
Expenses of Meetings
Pension—Miss I. Newton - - - -
Audit Fee
Library Books and Binding - - - -
Legal Expenses ------
Travelling Expenses
Total Ordinary Expenditure -
Depreciation of Furniture, etc. - - -
Total Expenditure - - - -
Excess of Income over Expenditure
£240
f\c
"5 1
5
7
24 9 0
1 10 5
721 0 0
45 4 II
210 4 9
23 7 5
127 2 10
23 ^
14 A
0
170 7 s
22 7 7
£1,942 2 1
1
128 14 I
555 10 9
26 16 I
5 5 0
r
D J J
306 7 5
£409 18 6
12 0 I
26 5 0
40 16 7
5 10 0
£2,436 13 I
50 18 0
£2,487 II I £2.373
£457 17 5 £1.052
BALANCE SHEETS—31 DECEMBER 1951
FREDERIC W. H. MYERS MEMORIAL FUND
CURRENT ASSETS:
Cash at Bank - - £44 q 10 £101
Investments at Book Value as per Schedule . - . . 1,106 17 6 1,107
(Market Value at 31 December 1951 =£855 i8 9)
£1,151 7 4 £1,208
CAPITAL AND ACCUMULATED INCOME:
Balance at i January 1951 - 1,207 18 8
Less Excess of Expenditure over Income for the year to date as per In-
come and Expenditure Account - - - - - - - 56114
£1.151 7 4 £1,208
BLENNERHASSETT RESEARCH FUND
CURRENT ASSETS:
Cash at Bank - - - - - - - - - - £118 08 £39
Income Tax Recoverable - 10153 to
Debtor ------------ 35
Investment at Book Value as per Schedule i,5io o o 1.510
(Market Value at 31 December i95it=(Ci,i65 o i)
£1,638 15 II £i,S94
CAPITAL AND ACCUMULATED INCOME:
Balance at 1 January 1951 - -- -- -- - £1,593 '5 '
Add Excess of Income over Expenditure for year to date as per Income
and Expenditure Account - -- -- -- - 45010
£1,638 15 11 £1,594
I
BALANCE SHEETS (cont'd)
RESEARCH ENDOWMENT FUND
UKRENT ASSETS:
Cash at Bank and in Hand ------- £1,216 7 8
Income Tax Recoverable .-- 57 72
Investments at Book Value as per Schedule - - - . i7,o43 10 4
(Market Value at 31 December 1951 =£13,943 12 3)
—
£18,917 S 2
Less Amount owed to General Fund ------ 97 ° °
£18.820 5 2
APITAL AND ACCUMULATED INCOME:
Balance at i January 1951 -- 18, 454 6 4
Add Excess of Income over Expenditure for year to date as per Income
and Expenditure Account - -- -- -- - 305 18 'o
£18,820 s 2
Cheditor - -- -- -- -- --
1950
£791
54
17.644
£18,489
£18,489
£18,820 5 2 £18,489
GENERAL FUND
IXED ASSETS:
Office Furniture, etc.
at cost less sales - - - - - ,
- £i44 13 3
(Purchase prior to 31 December 1946 remain-
ing unvalued)
Additions during year :
Furnishings, etc. ------ 271 I2 10
Recording Machine - - - - - 92 136
508 19 7
Less Depreciation - - - - - - 50180
Library Books and Experimental Apparatus - Not valued
Total Fixed Assets
URRENT ASSETS:
Cash at Bank and in Hand . - - - £1,619 2 o
Not YET Received for Sales of Publications - 10 15 6
Amounts owing by Research Endowment Fund 97 o o
Income Tax Recoverable 3587
Payments in Advance ----- 12 9 9
Investments at Book Value as per Schedule - 9,585 12 10
(Market Value at 31 December 1951 = £8,179 i o)
£11,360 8 8
Less CURRENT LIABILITIES:
Life Membership Account :
Balance at i January 1951 ----- £1,176 o o
Add Life Subscriptions received during year to
date - -- -- -- - 84 00
1,260 o o
Less Transfer to Income & Expenditure Account 52 10 o
Balance, being 50% of existing Life Members'
Subscriptions ------ 1,207 10 o
Aknual Subscriptions and Donations Received
IN Advance - - - - - - - 118 10 6
Sundry Creditors - -- -- - 72143
Total Net Assets - - -
APITAL:
General Fund :
Balance at i January 1951-
Add Excess of Income over Expenditure for year to
date as per Income & Expenditure Account
Transfer from Income Reserve Fund towards
cost of furnishings ------
Contribution from T. E. Wood for purchase of
Recording Machine . . - - -
£1,398 14 9
£9,051 8 4
457 17 5
264 8 10
92 13 6
£458
£458
£l4S
£145
£11,004
9,961 13 II 1,280
£10,419 15 6 £9,869
£9,866 8 I
BALANCE SHEETS (confd) ^
Brought forward - - - - 9,866 81 ''^^
Less Transfer to Income Reserve Fund being Legacy
and Anonymous Donation - - - . 400 o o £9,466 8 i
Income Reserve Fund :
Balance at i January 195 1 ----- 633 6 3
Add Transfer from General Fund - - - 400 o o
£9,051
£1,033 6 3
Less Transfer to General Fund - - - - 264 8 10
£768 17 5 £633
Special Donations :
Balance Unexpended - 184100 185
£10,419 15 6 £9,869
Note. No Account has been taken of Post War Credits for Income Tax amounting to £2 15 o.
Report of the Auditors to the Members of the Incorporated Society for
Psychical Research
We have obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge andi
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit. In our opinion proper books of account have been
kept by the Society so far as appears from our examination of those books. We have examined the
above Balance Sheet and annexed Income and Expenditure Accounts which are in agreement with the
books of account. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations
given us the said Accounts give the information required by the Companies Act, 1948, in the manner
so required and the Balance Sheet gives a true and fair view of the state of the Society's affairs at
31 December 1951, and the Income Sc Expenditure Accounts give a true and fair view of the Society's
revenue transactions during the year ended on that date. We have also verified the investments of
the General, Research Endowment, Myers Memorial, and Blennerhassett Funds.
Miall, Harper & Co.
9 Idol Lane, Eastcheap, London, E.G. 3. Chartered Accountants.
14 February 1952.
DONATIONS
Denys Parsons - £220
W. H. Salter --- 296
Anonymous 100 00
£ I 04 II 6
SCHEDULE OF INVESTMENTS
MYERS MEMORIAL FUND
3i% Conversion Stock 1961
3% Savings Bonds 1960/70
BLENNERHASSETT RESEARCH FUND
British Transport 3% Guaranteed Stock
1978/88
RESEARCH ENDOWMENT FUND
4% Consolidated Stock - - - -
3% Funding Stock 1959/69 - . -
3i% War Stock 1952 or after - - -
British Transport 3% Guaranteed Stock
1978/88
British Transport 3% Guaranteed Stock
1967/72
3% Defence Bonds - - - - -
3% Savings Bonds 1960/70 - - -
Australia 2i% Stock 1967/71 -
2i% Consolidated Stock - - - -
GENERAL FUND
4% Consolidated Stock . - - -
York 3% Redeemable Stock 1955/65 -
Australia 3% Stock 1955/8 . . -
Nigeria 3% Stock 1 95 5 - - - -
East India Railway Deferred Annuitv
Class D ----- -
3% Savings Bonds 1960/70 - - .
3% Savings Bonds igSS/^S - - -
Australia 3i% Registered Stock 1965/9
Nominal Book Value Value
31 December
1951
£250 0 0 £287 10 0 £204 7 6
•Ten 0 819 y 6 651 1
1
3
£1,106 17 6 £855 18 9
1,510 10 10 £1.510 0 0 £i.i6s 0 I
y r 6on I 6 £ r .3 lo 7 0
2,300 0 0 2.504 2 6 2,009 12 6
800 0 0 864 0 0 64s 0 0
6,626 I 5 6.472 17 1
1
5,1 10 7 0
5'4 0 0 539 14 0 416 6 10
600 0 0 670 5 0 597 IS 0
3.157 9 - 3.449 9 5 2,743 0 10
995 2 9 1,040 10 0 801 I 8
504 3 8 403 10 0 310 I S
£17.643 10 4 £13.943 12 3
86 1
1
1
1
£100 15 4 £77 14 5
800 0 0 848 0 0 716 0 0
250 0 0 262 10 0 240 0 0
1,200 0 0 1,272 0 0 1,197 0 0
23 8 0 590 17 0 5" 17 6
3,000 0 0 3.240 2 3 2,606 5 0
1,664 12 4 1.703 10 3 1,525 4 I
1,500 0 0 1.567 18 0 1,305 0 0
£9.585 12 10 £8,179 I O
xii Supplement to Journal, March-April ig^2
6. Membership of the Council
During the year Professor A. C. Hardy, F.R.S., and Mr G. W. Fisk
have been co-opted members of Council. The Council have renewed
the co-optation of Mrs Goldney, having been advised that her position
as Organizing Secretary did not debar her from membership of the
Council.
7, Obituary
The Council regret to record the death of several Members and
Associates of long standing, some of whom had taken an active part in
the Society's work, in particular. Lady Clwyd, Mr Abdy Collins, Miss
E. B. Gibbes, Nina Duchess of Hamilton, Mr J. Arthur Hill, and Miss
Hermione Ramsden.
8. Membership of the Society
During the year 82 Members, 9 Student-Associates, i Corresponding
Member, and 1 Hon. Associate were elected. The total loss in member-
ship from deaths, resignations, etc., was 108, resulting in a net decrease
of 17 in the total membership, which now, including Hon. and Corre-
sponding Members (16) and Hon. Associates (12), stands at 985.
9. The Staff
At the last Annual General Meeting reference was made to the need
for additional staff. In June the Council engaged Miss Ava Nangie,
M.A., for part-time work. Miss Nangie, who took a first-class honours
degree in modern and mediaeval languages at Cambridge, was formerly
on the staff of the International Institute of African Languages and
Cultures and of the Medical Research Council. Since her appointment
she has been assisting both in the research and the general secretarial
work of the Society.
10. Publications
Part 179 of Proceedings, containing Dr Thouless's paper '
A Report
on an Experiment on Psycho-kinesis with Dice ', was published in
February.
Dr Soal's Presidential Address, delivered on 3 November 1950, was
published in April 195 1 as Part 180 of Proceedings. The tenth Myers
Memorial Lecture, which was given by Professor Rhine on 10 May
1950 under the title '
Telepathy and Human Personality ', was also
published during the year.
Six numbers of the Journal and three Supplements were issued
during the year.
Supplement to Journal, March-April ig§2 xiii
II. The Library
During the year the number of books borrowed by Members and
Associates was 670, and 85 books were borrowed by the National
Central Library.
12. Meetings
8 Feb. ' Tlie Fatima Case '
by the Rev. C. C. Martindale, S.J.
I Mar. '
Some Noteworthy Incidents in my Sittings with Mrs
Leonard '
by the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas.
15 Mar. '
Is Psychical Research a Rational Subject? '
by Mary
Scrutton, M.S.
5 April ' Psychical Research and the Press '
by H. J. D. Murton.
19 April '
Some New Techniques in ESP Research '
by James Hayes.
3 May '
A New Theory of Some ESP Effects '
by D. J. West,
M.B., Ch.B.
24 May ' Spontaneous Phenomena in Modern Psycho-analytic
Technique '
by Alice E. Buck, M.D.
'
Astrology '
by John Addey.
'
Seeing Apparitions '
by Phoebe Payne.
The President, Dr S. G. Seal, on his Recent Visit to Duke
University.
1 1 Oct. ' Psychical Experiences in Central Africa '
by Matthew
McKay.
13 Dec. '
The Investigation of Haunts and Spontaneous Cases '
by
Professor F. J. M. Stratton, F.R.S.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
469th 27 Sept. 195 1 Chairman : The President, Dr S. G. Soal.
470th 16 Nov. 195 1 Chairman : The President, Dr S. G. Soal.
471st 13 Dec. 195 1 Chairman : The President, Dr S. G. Soal.
472nd 24 Jan. 1952 Chairman : The President, Dr S. G. Soal.
MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY
246th Thursday, 13 December 195 1, at 6.30 p.m. Professor F. J. M.
Stratton :
'
The Investigation of Haunts and Spontaneous
Cases '.
247th Wednesday, 16 January 1952, at 6.30 p.m. Dr J. A. Hadfield :
'
The Biological Function of Dreams '.
248th Tuesday, 12 February 1952, at 6.30 p.m. Antony G. N.
Flew :
'
Minds and Mystifications '.
xiv Supplement to Journal, March-April ig52
NEW MEMBERS
Members
{Elected 27 September 1951)
BowDLER, Dr W. a., Leadon Court, Fromes Hill, Ledbury, Hereford-
shire.
Chari, C. T. K., M.A., Staff Bungalow, Madras Christian College,
Tambaram, S. India.
Garbutt, G. F., 14 Palace Gardens, Enfield, Middx.
Hadfield, Dr J. A., 4 Upper Harley Street, London, N.W. i.
Jordan, William K., M.D., Dept of Neurology, School of Medicine,
University of Arkansas, Arkansas, U.S.A.
Schwartz, Dr Emanuel K., 65 East 76th Street, New York 21, U.S.A.
Shalliker, J., 272 Colne Road, Burnley, Lanes.
Smith, Rev. A. Handel, 2 Maxey Road, Helpston, Peterborough,
Northants.
Student-Associate
Richards, Douglas S., 204 Rugby Road, Binley, nr Coventry.
Members
{Elected 16 November 1951)
Brandstetter-Klausner, Mrs M., 144 Hayarkoustreet, Tel-Aviv,
Israel.
Campbell, J. G., B.A., M.Sc, University of Melbourne, Melbourne,
N. 3, Victoria, Australia.
Canetti, Elias, D.Phil., 14 Crawford Street, London, W. i.
Chitty, Ernest E., 65 Salisbury Road, Dover, Kent.
Clover, Albert E., 36 Churchill Avenue, Bendigo, Victoria, Australia.
Crawford, Merwin R., 36 East Fourth Street, Cincinnati, Ohio,
U.S.A.
GiLMOUR, W. D., B.A. Oxon., 27 Heath Drive, Gidea Park, Romford,
Essex.
Hewan, T. a. D., Whins, Hook Heath Avenue, Woking, Surrey.
Ivens, M. W., 26 Nevern Place, London, S.W. 5.
Matheson, J. D., B.Sc, 15 High Street, Invergordon, Ross and
Cromarty.
Mayne, Alan J., B.A., B.Sc.
Phillips, N., 10 Linnell Drive, London, N.W. 11.
Richardson, W. R., 28 Meadway, Barnet, Herts.
Schumacher, E. F., Holcombe, Weald Way, Caterham, Surrey.
ViNOD, D. G., M.A., Ph.D., 864 Sadashiv, Poona, India.
Williams, Miss J., 400 Ferry Road, Edinburgh 5.
Supplement to Journal, March-April ig52 xv
Student-Associates
Brett, M. J., 18 Salisbury Road, Banstead, Surrey.
Freeman, M. A. R., 27 Fountain House, Park Lane, London, W. i.
Members
{Elected 13 December 1951)
Bannister, R. T., M.B., B.S., Trelorgan, Lidden, Penzance.
HiMES, G. H., Post Office Box 472, Las Vegas, Nevada, U.S.A.
Keating, Mrs G. M., 113 Byng Drive, Potters Bar, Middx.
Kerr, T. H., B.Sc, 22 Birchett Road, Cove, Farnborough , Hants.
Librarian, National Library Service, Wellington, New Zealand.
Little, J. G., B.Sc, 33 Dorchester Way, Kenton, Harrow, Middx.
Van Der Maas, C. J., Netherlands Consultat-General, van Meteren-
kaai 4, Antwerp, Belgium.
{Elected 24 January 1952)
Brown, Ernest R., 36 Dale View Crescent, Chingford, London, E. 4.
Brown, Slater, Sherman, Conn., U.S.A.
Farrar, W. v., B.Sc, Ph.D.(Lond.), 75 High Street, Manchester 13.
Hamer, J. E., 67 Revelon Road, London, S.E. 4.
Leadley-Brown, Miss C, M.B.E., 18 Devonshire Road, Liverpool 8.
Librarian, The Meadville Theological School, 5701 Woodlawn
Avenue, Chicago 37, Illinois, U.S.A.
Librarian, Starr King School for the Ministry, 2441 Le Conte
Avenue, Berkeley 9, California, U.S.A.
Mactaggart, M., Farce, Tewin, Welwyn, Herts.
Musgrave, Flying Officer W., R.A.F., 175 Coppins Road, Clacton-
on-Sea, Essex.
Nelson, Rev. Robert A., 16 Kenilworth Park, Rathgar, Dublin, Eire.
NoRONA, Delf a., P.O. Box 344, Kingwood, West Virginia, U.S.A.
Sandstrom, Inge, M.A., iob Banersgatan, Malmo, Sweden.
Selby, P., 79 Roundwood Way, Banstead, Surrey.
TiLFORD, Judge Henry J., 291 1 Lilac Way, Louisville, Kentucky,
U.S.A.
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
JOURNAL
of the
Society for Psychical Research
Volume XXXVI No. 670 May-June 1952
THE DIEPPE RAID CASE
A Collective Auditory Hallucination
Investigated by G. W. Lambert, c.b., and
Kathleen Gay
On the 4th August, 1951, two English ladies, Mrs Dorothy Norton
(pseudonym) and her sister-in-law Miss Agnes Norton (pseudo-
nym), while staying for a holiday at Puys (Puits) near Dieppe
(France), had a remarkable experience in the nature of a collective
auditory hallucination. In order to safeguard those concerned
against unwanted publicity, the real names of the percipients and
the exact address at which they were staying are not given in this
report. For the sake of brevity the two percipients are referred
to below as D. and A. respectively. Their ages at the time were
thirty-two and thirty-three.
D., accompanied by her two young children and their nurse,
arrived at Puys on the 26th July, 1951, A. having arrived on the
preceding day, for a visit lasting till August 5th following. Puys
was chosen for the holiday by D. and her husband during a three-
day visit to Dieppe at Easter 1951. Neither percipient had any
particular interest in what happened at Dieppe during the Second
World War. Both had read in the press about the Dieppe Raid
of the 19th August, 1942, at the time of its occurrence, but had not
looked up the history of it in connexion with the visit. They have
been friends since childhood, but had not previously been on a
holiday together.
The percipients' Statements recording what they heard are
reproduced below. They are based on notes taken during the
experience, which, it will be seen, lasted nearly three hours, from
about 4 a.m. till about 7 a.m. The Statements were prepared
from the notes partly on the same day (4th August) and partly on
the following day, before the party left for England. At D.'s sug-
gestion the notes were written independently. The Statements
were posted to the Society by D. with a covering letter dated 9th
^ 607
6o8 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
August, written after her return. This letter merely described the
circumstances in which the experiences took place, and inquired
whether the Society had had any other reports of this kind. The
writer of this report has seen the notes from which the Statements
were prepared, and has checked the Statements against them.
At Puys D. and A. shared a bedroom on the second floor of a
three-storey house facing towards the sea, which was about a
quarter of a mile away, down a steep path. The house had, so they
were informed, been used as quarters for German troops during
the war. The nurse and two children, who heard nothing unusual,
were in another bedroom on the same floor, two doors away. The
times mentioned in the Statements were taken by D. and A. from
their wrist watches. Both percipients agree that A.'s watch was
keeping better time than D.'s, which was losing slightly. A. was
in the Women's Royal Naval Service during the war, and became
accustomed to the accurate recording of time. A.'s time is there-
fore to be preferred, where there is any discrepancy. Both
watches were set to 'Single Summer Time' (one hour ahead of
G.M.T.), which was also in use on the 19th August, 1942, for
service purposes in the Allied Forces and for civil purposes in
France. The weather was fine throughout the experience.
I. Copy of statement by Mrs Dorothy Norton
Saturday, August 4th, 1951
At 4.20 a.m. A. got up, and went out of the room. I said
'Would you like to put the light on?', but she didn't. She came
back in a few minutes. She said, 'Do you hear that noise?' I
had in fact been listening to it for about 20 minutes. I woke up
before it started. It started suddenly and sounded like a storm
getting up at sea. A. said she had also been listening to it for
about 20 minutes. We lay in the dark for a little listening to the
sound. It sounded like a roar that ebbed and flowed, and we
could distinctly hear the sounds of cries and shouts and gunfire.
We put the light on and it continued. We went out on the
balcony where we could look down towards the beach, though
we could not actually see the sea. The noise came from that
direction and became very intense, it came in rolls of sound and
the separate sounds of cries, guns and divebombing were very
distinct. Many times we heard the sound of a shell at the same
moment. The roaring became very loud. At 4.50 it suddenly
stopped. At 5.5 a.m. it started again and once more became
very intense, so much so that as we stood on our balcony, we
were amazed that it did not wake other people in the house. By
now it was getting light, cocks were crowing and birds were
singing. We heard a rifle shot on the hill above the beach.
1952] The Dieppe Raid Case 609
The sounds became more distinctly that of divebombers
rather than the cries and shouts we had heard earHer, although
we could still hear them. The noise was very loud and came in
waves as before. It stopped abruptly at 5.40.
At 5.50 it started again but was not so loud and sounded more
like planes. This died away at 6 a.m. At 6.20 the sound be-
came audible again but it was fainter than before, and I fell
asleep as I was very tired.
I was woken by a similar sound on Monday, July 30th, it
sounded exactly the same only fainter and not so intense. At
the end I seemed to hear a lot of men singing. It ended when
the cocks started crowing and I went to sleep. My sister-in-
law did not waken.
2. Copy of statement by Miss Agnes Norton, sister-in-law of
Mrs Dorothy Norton
Saturday, August 4th
I woke in what I realized was very early morning although
not yet dawn as no birds were singing. I was immediately
aware of a most unusual series of sounds coming from the
direction of the beach which were cries of men heard as if above
a storm.
After listening for about 15 minutes I got up to leave the
room and D. spoke to me and asked if I would like to put on the
light which I did not in fact do. On my return I asked D. if she
heard the noise too, and she said 'Yes', whereupon we put on the
light and checked the time as 4.20 a.m. Our next move was out
on to the balcony where the sounds intensified and appeared
to me to be a mixture of gunfire, shell-fire, dive-bombers,
landing craft and men's cries. All the sounds gave the im-
pression of coming from a very long distance, i.e. like a broad-
cast from America in unmistakable waves of sound. At 4.50
a.m. all noise ceased abruptly and recommenced equally
abruptly at 5.07 a.m. At 5.50 a.m. planes distinctly heard in
large numbers and other fainter sounds dying away at 6 a.m.
At 6.25 men's cries heard again growing gradually fainter and
nothing at all heard after 6.55 a.m.
The remarkable feature of this case is the close correspondence
between the times of the 'battle sounds' heard by the percipients
on the 4th August, 1951, and the times of the actual battle sounds
resulting from the operations on the 19th August, 1942. The
correspondence is brought out in tabular form below, but the
reader will be in a better position to appreciate the comparison if
Reproduced by permission of the Controller of Her Majesty's Stationery Office
1952] The Dieppe Raid Case 611
he is first given a brief outline of the plan and course of the Raid.
For fuller accounts, see the section on Dieppe in the volume
Norway-The Commandos-Dieppe ^ by Christopher Buckley, which
was published in January 1952, some five months after the experi-
ence of the two percipients, and The Canadian Army 1939-45 ^ by
Colonel C. P. Stacey.
At Dieppe, as will be seen from the accompanying map, the
French coast runs, roughly speaking, east and west. The plan was
first to land small forces by surprise at places on either side of
Dieppe to destroy coastal batteries. These flank landings, as
they were called, were directed to Puys, about il miles east of
Dieppe, and to Berneval, about 5 miles further east ; also to
Pourville, about 2\ miles west of Dieppe, and to Varengeville
about 3 miles further west. All these flank landings were due to
take place at 4.50 a.m., to be followed half an hour later, at 5.20,
by the main landings at Dieppe itself. The main landings were to
be preceded and covered by a bombardment of Dieppe by the
destroyers accompanying the force, and by air attack.
In the event the flank landings west of Dieppe took place
punctually. They met with so little opposition on the beaches
that they were doubtless hardly heard at all at Puys, on the other
side of Dieppe. On the east, the allied vessels closing on Berneval
ran accidentally across a small protected German convoy at 3.47
a.m., when about seven miles from the French coast. Firing
started immediately after between the opposing vessels, and the
noise gave about an hour's warning to the Germans, anyhow on the
east side of Dieppe. The accounts of the engagement do not
show exactly when this firing stopped, but there is evidence that
it lasted till after 4 a.m.
Meanwhile the vessels closing on Puys moved on, arriving 17
minutes later, i.e. at 5.07 instead of at 4.50. (This time, 5.07, has
been established as more correct than 5.05, the time indicated for
this landing in a report by the Naval Commander, Captain J.
Hughes-Hallett, R.N., dated 30th August, 1942, published on
14th August, 1947, as a Supplement to the London Gazette of the
12th of that month. That report makes the time 15 minutes late
on 4.50, i.e. 5.05.) The Germans, who had had time to man their
beach defences, waited until the landing craft had almost touched
down and then opened heavy fire on the disembarking Canadian
troops. A second 'wave' went ashore a few minutes later, followed
by a further landing at about 5.45. Those troops who succeeded
in getting ashore were confronted by a high sea-wall which gave
little shelter against a murderous enfilading fire from enemy pill-
^ London, H.M. Stationery Office, 1952.
* Ottawa, The King's Printer, 1948.
6i2 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
boxes. Very few penetrated inland, and at 8.30 a.m. the survivors
of those pinned to the beach surrendered. Buckley (p. 249) sums
up the situation in these words :
In the space of two or three hours the Royal Regiment of Canada
had been practically exterminated. Of 26 officers and 528 other ranks
who had embarked for the operation on the previous night, all the
officers and 496 other ranks became casualties. Two officers and 65
others, half of whom were wounded, were brought away ; no less
than eight officers and 199 others were killed ; 16 officers and 264
others, wounded and unwounded, fell into German hands. . .
To the noise of machine-gun and rifle fire from positions com-
manding the beach there was added the sound of firing from a
German howitzer battery, situated a few hundred yards south of
Puys, which was directed at the allied shipping lying off the shore.
The noise of the shells passing overhead must have been audible
to persons in the house in which the percipients found themselves
nine years later. German records show that the number of shells
fired during the course of that morning by the battery in question
was 550.
At 5.12 the destroyers accompanying the main force started to
bombard Dieppe, preparatory to the landing there, and, just
before that landing started, beginning at about 5.15, Hurricanes
made a cannon-firing attack on the sea-front buildings. The land-
ing itself was met by a heavy outburst of firing from the shore. At
the same time (5.20) air cover was increased to its maximum, but
the increasing noise of aircraft was probably masked for the time
being by the naval gunfire.
At 5.40 the naval bombardment stopped, and the sudden drop
in the amount of noise audible at Puys must have been very
noticeable. On the other hand the sound of aircraft must have
become much more pronounced, rising to a maximum at 5.50 a.m.,
when there was a change-over of the air cover, forty-eight fighters
arriving from England to relieve an equal number due to return
there. By that time, too, there was a considerable increase in the
number of German aircraft overhead.
From 5.50 to 6.55 there was so much activity at several points
of attack that one cannot estimate the result in the way of noise, as
heard at Puys. It is only necessary to add that there was a con-
siderable amount of noise after 6.55 (when the experience ended),
including a good deal of gunfire from naval vessels covering the
re-embarkation of allied troops.
In the following table the left-hand column divides the experi-
ence into phases (Roman numerals), and under each phase brings
together corresponding extracts from the Statements of the two
1952] The Dieppe Raid Case 613
percipients. The right-hand column shows the officially recorded
times of relevant events at the same hour of the day on the 19th
August, 1942, and cites sources published before the 4th August,
1 95 1. After 6 a.m., as stated above, the increasingly complex
pattern of events makes it hardly possible to continue the com-
parison. If the reader should feel that, even so, the amount of
correspondence between the columns may have been exaggerated
by 'unfair' selection of events for the right-hand column, his best
recourse would be to read the recently published account of the
Raid in Norway-The Commandos-Dieppe,
bearing in mind that it
was not accessible to the percipients, and to study the course of
events against the wider background there presented.
COMPARATIVE TABLE
Percipients' Statements
I. About 4 a.m. (i.e. about 20
minutes before 4.20).
D. 'It [the noise] started
suddenly and sounded like a
storm getting up at sea. ... It
sounded like a roar that ebbed
and flowed . . . sounds of cries
and shouts and gunfire.'
A. '
. . . unusual series of
sounds coming from the direc-
tion of the beach which were
cries of men heard as if above a
storm.'
II. 4.50 a.m.
A. '. . . all noise ceased abrupt-
ly-'
D. '. . . suddenly stopped.'
in. 5.07 a.m.
A. '.
. . recommenced abrupt-
ly at 5.07 a.m.'
1 London, H.M.S.O., 1943.
Events on igth August, 1942
3.47 a.m. Assault vessels clos-
ing on Berneval ran across German
convoy. Firing began immedi-
ately after, and went on until after
4 a.m.
Note. This time (3.47 a.m.) was
published in several accounts, e.g.
Combined Operations ^ and The
Green Beret ^ by Hilary St G.
Saunders (p. 104).
At Puys there was probably
shouting by German soldiers
manning the beach defences.
4.50 a.m. was zero hour for the
iiank landings, which, at Berneval
and Puys, were delayed. There
may have been silence at Puys at
this stage.
Several published reports men-
tion 4.50 as zero hour but there is
nothing to suggest that silence fell
just then.
5.07 a.m. The first wave of
landing craft touched down at Puys
in the face of heavy fire.
" London, Joseph, 1949.
Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
614
Percipients' Statements
D. 'At 5.05 a.m. it started
again and once more became
very intense. .
.'
Note. This discrepancy of
two minutes is discussed below.
D. 'The sounds became more
distinctly that of dive-bombers
rather than the cries and shouts
we had heard earlier. .
.'
IV. 5.40 a.m.
D. 'It [the noise] stopped
abruptly at 5.40.'
{Note. A. does not mention
this.)
V. 5.50 a.m.
D. 'At 5.50 it started again
. . . and sounded more like
planes.'
Events on igth August, 1942
Note. This time was published
by inference in The Canadian
Army 1939-45 cited above. The
landing of the first wave is
recorded as having been 17
minutes late—i.e. 4.50 plus 17
minutes (p. 71). Buckley (p. 247)
also puts the delay at 17 minutes.
5.12 a.m. Destroyers started to
bombard Dieppe.
5.15 a.m. Low-flying Hurri-
canes attacked the sea front build-
ings.
5.20 a.m. The landing of the
main force at Dieppe began, in the
face of heavy fire.
5.40 a.m. The naval bombard-
ment of Dieppe stopped.
Note. A press correspondent in
The Times of 21st August, 1942,
stated that the bombardment con-
tinued for 20 minutes after the
landing had begun (i.e. till 5.20
plus 20 minutes).
5.50 a.m. Forty-eight R.A.F.
aircraft arrived from England (see
p. 612). 'By now, shortly before
6 a.m. . . . the noise of aeroplanes
had risen to a constant drone, like
a net of harsh sound under the
sky.' (Same correspondent as
under IV above.)
The only account of the Raid which was in the hands of the
percipients at the time was one contained in a French guide book
entitled Dieppe, a copy of which was handed to K. G. by D. They
say that they knew of the existence of this account, but had not
read it before the experience started. After the noise had begun,
they read it on the balcony at about the middle of Phase III. It is
therefore necessary to examine carefully passages in the account
from which clock-times up to about 7 a.m. might have been ob-
tained. They are as follows :
(i) Le 19 aout 1942, la population cotiere fut reveillee par une
canonnade en mer, au large de Berneval ; a 5h.5o, une multitude
1952] The Dieppe Raid Case 615
d'avions se pr^cipitaient sur Dieppe et ses environs, pendant que des
flotilles sous la protection de destroyers s'approachaient des cotes et
debarquaient en huits points differents de Sainte-Marguerite a Berne-
val, des contingents allies comprenant pres de 7000 hommes. (p. 30).
No reader not already acquainted with the facts would realize
that the firing off Berneval referred to at the beginning of the
above passage took place two hours before the time 5.50 mentioned
immediately after the semi-colon. Nor, from the use of the ex-
pression 'pendant que' would he be able to infer that the flank
landings had already taken place, and that the main landings were
well advanced by 5.50.
(2) A Puys, par suite de la fausse manoeuvre d'une flotille, le de-
barquement fut retarde et fut effectue comme le jour se levait. (p. 41).
This statement is correct, but the reference to the time of the
landing is too vague to account for the precise time 5.07 coming
out in A.'s statement.
(3) L'attaque principale se produisit a Dieppe. A 5h.20, les de-
stroyers allies ouvraient le feu. (p. 41).
According to a naval report, it was at 5.12 that the destroyers
opened fire. 5.20 was the zero hour for the landings at Dieppe, and
they started within two or three minutes of that time.
(4) Vers 7 heures, une vingtaine de tanks du 'Calgary Regiment' . .
.
debarquerent, sauf deux. . . qui furent coules. (p. 43).
These tanks arrived in vessels which touched down between
5.35 and 6.05 and, apart from two which were sunk, were all on
shore soon after 6 a.m.
It will be seen that the percipients' time-table could not have
been got from the French account, except perhaps the time 5.50
for the sound of aircraft at Phase V. Both percipients are sure
that they had never heard of the existence of any of the reports and
accounts mentioned above, apart from the French guide book and
anything they may have read in the press at the time of the Raid ;
and certainly had never read the Hughes-Hallett report or the
account in the Canadian volume. A. has also assured us that
during her service in the Women's Royal Naval Service she was not
in a position to see unpublished naval reports of operations.
Between the 4th and 9th August, when D. wrote to the Society,
neither percipient appears to have attempted to correlate the
times given in her notes with actual battle times.
Even if both percipients had noticed before 5.50 a.m. the state-
ment in the French guide book that a large number of aircraft
flung themselves on Dieppe at that hour on the 19th August, 1942,
a2
6 1 6 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
that knowledge would not ordinarily have caused hallucinatory
hearing of aircraft noise by two persons at that particular time.
It seems reasonable to attribute the 'appropriate sounds' heard at
5.50 to the same cause as those heard earlier at about 4 a.m. and at
5.07 a.m.
There are some details in the Statements which do not link up
with any ascertainable facts about the Raid, and for that reason
cannot be attributed to or checked by reference to accounts of the
operation. For instance, there is nothing in the accounts to sug-
gest that noise ceased suddenly at Phase II ; nor that noises died
away at 6 a.m. ;
nor, as A. says, that men's cries were particularly
audible at 6.25. There is nothing inherently improbable in any
of the statements, if they are read in relation to happenings
audible at Puys at corresponding times during the Raid.
Phase III, which furnishes the most remarkable coincidence in
the whole series, provides also a very curious puzzle. Both
percipients are sure that they simultaneously heard the noise start
again, but at this point there is a discrepancy of two minutes in
their timing. They attribute this to D.'s watch having been two
minutes slow on A.'s watch, which, as stated above, is more likely
to have been right than D.'s. All other times noted by both
percipients end in 5 or o, and it may be that A. was reading times
to the nearest minute, whereas D. was reading them to the nearest
5 minutes ;
also, that 5.07 was the only time 'clocked' which did
not, to the nearest minute, end in a 5 or o. Not to labour the
point unduly, the argument favours the conclusion that for the
left-hand column of the Comparative Table 5.07 is more accurate
than 5.05 for the beginning of Phase III.
Oddly enough, there is a discrepancy of the same two minutes in
the reports of the time at which the landing began at Puys on 19th
August, 1942. Captain Hughes-Hallett, in paragraph 12 of his
report, makes the time 15 minutes late on 4.50 (i.e. 5.05) but
admits in effect that his information about that landing was sub-
ject to correction in the light of a separate report from another
officer who was in a better position to know what happened. The
time accepted as correct by the historians of the Raid is 17 minutes
late, i.e. 5.07, and the discrepancy is clearly due to the fact that
two different observers, one in a better position than the other,
judged differently the time at which the landing began. There
accordingly appears to be no connexion at all between the dis-
crepancies as such, but as the clearing away of the discrepancies
leaves us with a 'corrected' time 5.07, on each side of the Table,
we are faced with a coincidence which seems far outside the bounds
of chance. No other landing than that at Puys is recorded as
having started at 5.07, and that minute stands out with grim
1952] The Dieppe Raid Case 617
significance in the history of what was known as the 'Blue Beach*
landing.
CONCLUSION
As many supposed auditory hallucinations turn out on investi-
gation to be cases in which some ordinary noise has been mis-
interpreted, it is perhaps necessary to point out that that explana-
tion will not serve here. Any theory that the noises heard were
due to water in pipes, or to artillery practice a long way off, the
sound of which had been carried to Puys by some freak effect,
would fail to explain why no one else heard the noises. The
percipients say that they inquired during the day (4th August) of
several persons whether they had been disturbed during the night
by any unusual noise, and received negative answers. In particu-
lar, they asked a fellow visitor who had repeatedly complained of
being disturbed at night by casual noises, as they had seen her
bedroom light on when they were standing on the balcony listening
to noises of 'amazing' loudness. She said she had not heard any-
thing unusual. Nor, it may be added, could the noises have come
from a cinema running through a film at an unusual hour, for
there is no cinema in Puys.
On the other hand, it would, in our opinion, be rash to assume
that the sounds heard were a sort of 'sound track' repetition of the
sounds of the Raid. The various kinds of sounds heard, gunfire,
dive-bombing, planes, a rifle shot, shouts and cries, are all appro-
priate, but there is not enough detailed information available as
to when the several kinds of sound first occurred to enable one to
judge whether they are 'phased in' correctly.
It will be seen from the last paragraph of D.'s Statement that
she had a slighter and much shorter experience of the same kind
on the morning of 30th July, which was not shared by A. who was
asleep. D. says she did not mention this to A. till about two days
later, as she (D.) was not in the mood to have her holiday inter-
fered with by 'uncanny' happenings, and when she did mention
it to A. neither of them thought it sufficiently mysterious to be
worth pursuing. This, followed by the much more 'successful'
performance on 4th August, suggests that some resistance had to
be overcome to 'put across' the sound effects, and they may have
been representative, rather than exact repetitions, arranged in a
manner that stressed certain clock-times by preceding intervals
of silence.
D. had had three previous experiences of a 'psychic' nature, but
none of them was a purely auditory hallucination, so she had no
reason to expect an experience of that particular kind at Puys.
Two of these earlier experiences were visual hallucinations which,
6i 8 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
though involving an apparition of a person well known to her,
would not necessarily be considered evidential. The third took
place one night during her visit to Dieppe at Easter. It, too, was
not evidential. Consisting of a peculiarly powerful impression
—
possibly a dream—of someone being chased through her bedroom
and towards the window, it is mainly of interest here because one
might possibly associate it with events which took place in Dieppe
during the Raid of August 1942, though this does not seem to have
occurred to the percipient. A. has never had any other psychic
experience, and it seems likely that the presence of D. had some-
thing to do with her hearing hallucinatory sounds at all on 4th
August.
We have been impressed by the commendable pains taken by
the percipients to record the evidence at once, on a day when they
must have been busy preparing to return to England, and by the
candour with which they have answered questions we have put to
them. They both seemed to the investigators to be well-balanced
individuals, with no tendency to add colour to their accounts.
Neither of them has shown any concern whatever to 'prove' by
the experience any preconceived theory of its cause, which would
have been likely to determine the form it took. Both as regards
form and content we think the experience must be rated a genuine
psi phenomenon, of which little or nothing was derived from
previous normally acquired knowledge. i '.
The accounts of the Raid in this report are based mainly on
information contained in the published sources to which references
are given, notably Norway-The Commandos-Dieppe by Christopher
Buckley and The Canadian Army 1939-45 t>y Lt. Col. C. P. Stacey.
For advice as to sources the writer of this report is indebted to the
Librarian of the War Office, and for certain details about the
movements of aircraft to the Librarian and Archivist of the Air
Ministry. The Controller of Her Majesty's Stationery Office has
kindly given permission for the reproduction of the map and for
the quotation on p. 612 from Norway-The Commandos-Dieppe.
G. W. L.
1952] ESP Tests with Psychotics 619
ESP TESTS WITH PSYCHOTICS
By D. J. West
Summary
Three series of tests ^ carried out over the last year are here
recorded. The first was exploratory, the second and third were
designed to test whether extremely hostile and suspicious attitudes,
commonly found in certain types of mental patient, would be con-
ducive to negative scoring. In none of the three series was there
found any clear evidence of an E S P effect. Some of the practical
difficulties encountered in administering ESP tests to psychotic
patients are described.
Introduction
It is often assumed that insane or peculiar people are likely to
make good psychic subjects. Certainly psychotic patients often
believe themselves to be possessed of special psychic gifts.
Ehrenwald (i) has gone so far as to base a theory of schizophrenia
on the supposition that these sufferers are in fact being over-
whelmed by an uprush into their consciousness of a chaotic mass
of extrasensory impressions.
Urban (2) has carried out many card tests with psychotic
I patients and has reported strikingly positive scores as well as
;
significant differences in scoring level between several diagnostic
I
groups. This work awaits confirmation. In my view his results
I
are unreliable on account of inadequate experimental precautions.
In 1937 Shulman (3), in some tests on psychotics in the Hudson
River State Hospital, obtained an overall score close to chance
expectation. The results from one of his fourteen disgnostic
groups—the manic-depressive depressed—give a significant
positive deviation (CR = 3-39). This is suggestive of an ESP
effect, in spite of the obvious selection factor, but there were not
enough patients in his series to demonstrate that the results of the
manic-depressive depressed were significantly greater than what
might have come about by variation in the patients' scoring levels
independently of diagnosis.
In 1938 Margaret Price (4), of the Duke University Para-
psychology Laboratory, carried out a large series of ESP card
tests with 50 mental patients in the Ohio State Hospital. A
report was not published until thirteen years afterwards, since
'the work did not meet the more stringent experimental require-
1 My thanks are due to the authorities of the Bethlem Royal and
Maudsley Hospital, Horton Mental Hospital, Surrey, and Northumber-
land House, Finsbury Park, where the tests were carried out.
620 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may i
ments of that time, and it had little chance for immediate publica- j \
tion'. In 1700 runs of high aim trials the patients achieved an t
average score of 5-54 (CR= 11-05, P^io-^*) and in 495 runs of i
low aim the average score was 4 65 (CR = 3-89, P = io-*). The [
effect was a fairly generalised one, found in patients of all diagnos-
j [
tic types. A breakdown into co-operative, apathetic, and irritable I
'
patients showed that both the first two categories scored signifi- 1
1
cantly better than the last one. Thus the attitude of the patients i
j
tested had considerable influence upon the results obtained, 1
,
whereas the nature of their mental derangement did not seem to
make much difference.
Dr Betty Humphrey and other American experimenters have
recently carried out further ESP tests with mental patients, but
their findings have not yet been published.
Series I
The first series of card tests was entirely exploratory, intended
'
to discover any special peculiarities in the results that might be 1
obtained from a group of unselected psychotics. Twenty-five |
patients were tested, comprising eighteen schizophrenics, one
schizo-affective disorder, five psychotic depressions, and one case
in which the diagnosis proved doubtful. The patients were
selected solely on the basis of their availability and their being
neither too disturbed nor too uncooperative to be testable.
Each subject was given four runs of DT trials with the standard
ESP cards. The cards were randomised, arranged in packs of
twenty-five, and enclosed in numbered envelopes by an assistant.
The experimenter presented the envelopes to the subject one at a
time, asking him to call twenty-five guesses at the order of the
pack from top to bottom inside the envelope. After every twenty-
five calls, the target envelope was opened, and the guesses checked
in front of the subject. Since there was often no observer present,
it was an important condition that the experimenter did not know
the order of the target cards until after he had written down the
subject's calls, and that the experimenter's record of the target
order was later checked against the record that had previously been
made by the assistant who randomised the cards.
The results obtained showed a close agreement of total score
(both in direct hits and displacement hits) with chance expecta-
tion :
-I o +1
Observed hits 477 512 451 , .,,
Expected hits 480 500 480
There was no significant scatter of subjects' scores. The largest
deviation obtained was by Mr T., who scored negatively. The
1952] ESP Tests with Psychotics 621
next largest negative deviation was produced by Mrs C. These
two subjects were exceptional in that both were highly paranoid
and both fitted the experimenter into their delusory systems in a
persecutory role. Mr T., who was one of the experimenter's own
patients, believed that the experimenter was responsible for the
'voices' that plagued him all day long. Mrs C, although she was
unknown to the experimenter before the test, 'recognized' him at
first sight as someone from South Africa who was concerned in a
plot against her. Their scores were as follows :
Table of Scores
1st run 2nd run yd run \th run Deviation C.R.
Mr T 2 3 I 4 -10 -2.50
MrsC 31 5 5
- 6 -1.50
Total -16 -2.8
This result suggested that a highly hostile and suspicious attitude
might be connected with negative scoring. It was with this sug-
gestion in mind that a second series of tests was carried out.
Series II
The purpose of this series was to test the hypothesis that
hostile, paranoid patients would tend to produce negative scores.
Twenty-two subjects were tested. (It was originally planned to
try fifty subjects but, owing to the experimenter leaving the
hospital, and the experiment proving time-consuming and
apparently unproductive, the series was interrupted.) All the
subjects were psychotics with paranoid delusions ; most of them
were suffering from chronic paranoid schizophrenia. A difficulty
was encountered in that the most hostile and most paranoid
patients refused to have anything to do with the test, and some of
those who were included in the series did not exhibit overt
suspicion or hostility in the test situation. The method of testing
used was DT clairvoyance, with four runs per subject, exactly as
in Series I.
The results were completely null, there being no evidence of any
negative trend and no significant displacement effects :
- 1 o +1
Observed hits (23 subjects) 442 459 433
Expected hits 422.4 440 422.4
Five of the subjects who were noted to be especially hostile did
not produce outstanding scores. Series II included a retest of
Mr T., who had produced the largest negative deviation in Series I,
622 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
but this time his score was close to chance. It must be admitted,
however, that in no case in Series II, not even in the retest of Mr T.,
did the subject express the delusion that the experimenter was a
persecutor.
Series III
This series consisted of a group test which, Hke Series II, was
designed to investigate the effect on scoring of marked hostihty
and suspicion in the subjects. Dr F. K. Taylor of the Maudsley
Hospital supplied the subjects. They consisted of six patients
who met regularly once a week with a doctor in order to receive
psychotherapy as a group. All of them were highly paranoid,
several were definitely deluded and psychotic, and the rest were
borderline cases. All of them felt persecuted, and tended to be
aggressive and suspicious in their dealings with other people.
D. J. West sat in on one of their weekly sessions, listening in
silence and taking notes while they discussed their intimate affairs
with their doctor. At the end of the session, when it may be
safely assumed they were feeling peculiarly resentful and sus-
picious, they were required to take part in an ESP test.
The test consisted of eight runs, DT clairvoyance, under the
same general conditions as in Series I and II, except that the sub-
jects wrote down their guesses, all at the same time, and all aiming
at the same target. No significant trend was found in the results ;
Subject No. of Runs Deviation
A 8 +3
B 8 -6
C 8 +1
D 4 +2
E 8 +3
F 8 +3
Total 44 +6
A Note on the Practical Difficulties of Administering ESP
Tests to Psychotic Subjects
In the investigation of possible correlations between the mood
of the subject and ESP scoring, psychotic patients provide useful
material, since in them moods such as aggressiveness, suspicion,
elation, or apathy, occur spontaneously in forms more extreme
than are ever likely to be encountered in normal people. Unfor-
tunately, largely because of these violent moods, psychotics are
often uncooperative or inaccessible to the experimenter. Even
when they appear superficially to agree to co-operate in the ESP
test, they often succeed in resisting by indirect means. They
1952] ESP Tests zvith Psychotics 623
sometimes keep up endless arguments about whether it is right for
them to take part in the test, or try to put off the test to another
day. Others take so long over their calls, trailing off into such pro-
tracted discussion of the pros and cons of each choice, that the
experimenter's patience becomes exhausted. Another, and even
commoner habit, is to employ systematised guessing. In an ex-
treme case they may say 'Let's have them all crosses' or 'five
circles, then five waves, then five stars, then five squares and then
five crosses'. More commonly they call the cards in sets of five,
e.g. 'cross, square, star, wave, circle', repeating the sequence over
and over again either in the same or reversed order. The persistent
use of one or other rigid system of calling, after the experimenter's
repeated requests to guess the cards at random, is such a common
feature of psychotic behaviour in the ESP test situation that it
could almost be used as a diagnostic aid.
Systematic card-calling presumably tends to prevent any
genuine ESP response, and should therefore be discouraged. It
will be remembered that when Dr Soal's subject, Basil Shackleton,
adopted fixed guessing habits, he did not score above chance. But
no matter how far from random the subject's calls may be, spurious
extra-chance scores cannot be produced provided the target cards
are strictly randomised.
The chief disadvantage in the use of psychotic patients as sub-
jects is the great amount of time taken up in making contact with
them and in conducting the tests. It was not uncommon to have
to spend a whole afternoon in obtaining a subject willing to co-
operate and in persuading him to complete four runs, which, with
a normal subject, could easily be completed in a quarter of an hour.
While the subjects' guesses have throughout this report been
referred to as 'calls', in practice it was found necessary to arrange
samples of the target cards in front of them and ask them to
indicate their choice with a pointing finger. Many psychotics
were prepared to co-operate to this extent who would not have
been prepared to call out audibly the names of the cards.
REFERENCES
(1) Ehrenwald, Jan. Telepathy and Medical Psychology. London,
Allen & Unwin, 1947.
(2) Parapsychology Bulletin. No. 14 (1949) and No. 19 (1950).
Duke University Press.
(3) Shulman, R. 'A Study of Card Guessing in Psychotic Sub-
jects.' J. Parapsychol., 1938, ii, 95 -106.
(4) Bates, K. E., and Newton, Marietta. 'An Experimental Study
of ESP capacity in mental patients.' J. Parapsychol., 1951,
XV, 271-7.
624 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
THE SOCIETY'S NEW PRESIDENT
For the year which marks the Society's seventieth anniversary,
the Council invited its most distinguished member, Dr Gilbert
Murray, O.M., to accept the Presidency. He was formally elected
on 23 April.
Dr Murray joined the Society in 1894, twelve years after its
foundation, and was President for the year 191 5-16. He was a
member of the Council for many years, and has been a Vice-
President since 1920. His Presidential Address will be delivered
at 8 p.m. on Wednesday, 21 May, in the Great Hall of the Caxton
Hall, Westminster, S.W.I.
REVIEWS
The Psychology of the Occult. By D. H. Rawcliffe. London,
Ridgway, 1952. 551 pp. Illus. 21s.
The main purpose of this book is to discredit psychical research
(for which the author prefers to use the emotive term 'occult
research') which he says is today 'assuming alarming proportions'
and even 'invading the precincts of our most distinguished
universities' (p. 9). It has seemed to many of us that it was better
that experimental inquiry should be taking place into such matters,
and that such experimental inquiry by trained researchers was the
most hopeful way of sifting the true from the false. Mr Rawcliffe
seems to feel no need for such sifting ; it is all 'occultism' and,
therefore, all false. All that needs to be done is to think of a
'rational' explanation of any apparently successful psi experiment.
There is, of course, nothing new in this position, and when
Jastrow argued twenty-five years ago that the crucial experiments
for extrasensory perception were not rigid enough to satisfy the
experimental psychologist, he could make out a reasonable case
for this opinion. The situation is different now. Experiments
have been carried out under conditions which met all reasonable
objections and still successes have continued. Unconscious
whispering seemed at one time as if it might be a plausible ex-
planation, and Mr Rawcliffe seems still prepared to back it
strongly. But psi successes have taken place under conditions in
which such an explanation is absurd, e.g. in ESP experiments over
long distances, in precognition experiments, and in the Duke DT
experiments in which the target cards were known to no one until
the guesses were completed.
1952] Reviews 625
There is nothing judicial about Mr Rawcliffe's survey of the
field of parapsychology. He reminds one rather of a prosecuting
counsel with a weak case, concerned to create conviction at all
costs. There is, for example, much abuse of the parapsychologist
for 'bias and incompetence' (pp. 479 and 486). There are refer-
ences to the parapsychologists as amateurs ;
they are contrasted
with the psychologists who (according to Mr Rawcliffe) reject the
findings of parapsychological experiments. The intention seems
to be to suggest to the jury that Professor Gardner Murphy and
Dr Schmeidler are amateur psychologists while the author is a
professional. A jury sufficiently ignorant of the facts might per-
haps be led to suppose that this was true.
Obviously one needs to trouble oneself less about the evidence if
the jury can be convinced that all the witnesses on the other side
are unreliable. Thus, on p. 323 : 'Richet, Myers and Lodge all
believed in the unseen spirit world and died steadfast in their
belief. This is true of Myers and Lodge, false of Richet ;
irrelevant in any case as a means of judging the correctness of their
observations. Dalton believed in the atomic hypothesis and died
steadfast in that belief, but this is not ground for rejecting his
experimental work. On p. 313 we learn that evidence coming
from Osty is highly suspect because psychical research was his all-
absorbing interest. If all evidence as to paranormal phenomena
must be suspect if it comes either from workers who believe in
paranormal phenomena or who are strongly interested in it, we
shall be left with little evidence. But a similar criterion would
leave us with little evidence on any other branch of research.
On p. 323 : 'Palladino's investigators were not really investi-
gating her "phenomena" at all. What they were all hoping to do
was to prove her "phenomena" authentic' How does Mr Raw-
cliffe know this? 'The Soal experiments were first and foremost
designed to establish scientifically the validity of a purely meta-
physical concept' (p. 458). My own recollection of Dr Soal's
attitude is that, on the contrary, what he was trying to establish
was that, under properly controlled conditions, a subject in card
guessing experiments could not beat the laws of chance. Being an
open-minded man, he gave up that idea when the experimental
evidence went against it, but it is absurd to credit him with the
opposite pre-conception.
Although Mr Rawcliffe devotes a chapter to discussion of the
American experiments in ESP, these are mostly devoted to dis-
crediting the experimenters. There is no need to protect Duke
parapsychological investigators against the charge of experimental
incompetence. Many competent judges have examined their
work critically and come to the opposite conclusion. Mr Raw-
626 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
cliffe makes no attempt at a fair appraisal of the evidence from this
laboratory by considering the experiments carried out with the
fullest precautions against error. There is, for example, no
mention of the Pearce-Pratt series of experiments which is
claimed by Rhine as the most adequate evidence for the reality of
ESP. A sneer at Dr Schmeidler on p. 442, based on a criticism
by Dr Soal of a minor detail in her evaluation of results, shows
complete ignorance of the point of the criticism.
Dr Soal receives more adequate treatment in the next chapter.
The Shackleton results, however, are explained as due to a double
system of unconscious whispering by assistant-experimenter and
agent. This suggestion is not altogether novel. If it is con-
sidered to be a possible explanation of the main Shackleton series
of results, it is obviously not applicable to the preliminary Shackle-
ton series in which there was precognitive guessing on a pack of
cards, or to the Antwerp-London experiments with Mrs Stewart.
For the Antwerp-London series, Mr Rawcliffe has to fall back on
the suggestion that the conditions were such that Dr Soal had the
opportunity of faking the records.
Mr Rawcliffe does not seem altogether happy about these
criticisms of Soal's experiments, since he tries to strengthen them
by some statistical considerations which show a curious lack of
understanding. On p. 471, for example, he says that even if his
other criticisms were not sound, the Shackleton series would be a
weak support for Soal's conclusions since their total number is
only 6,690 guesses which is a small number compared with the
American experiments. This, of course, has nothing to do with
the case ; the anti-chance odds were 10^^ to i, which is by no
means weak. He is surprised by the 200 guesses with 60 right by
Mrs Stewart ten feet from the telephone (p. 472), but remarks that
200 trials is too small a number to be of any significance. This is
not the case ; the odds against such an excess of right answers
arising by chance in 200 guesses is 2,000 to i which is amply
significant.
If all his criticisms against the experiments fall to the ground,
Mr Rawcliffe has a further line of defence in Chapter XXVIII.
They could not prove telepathy because this is a metaphysical and
not a scientific hypothesis. This is, of course, a mixture of sense
and nonsense : the sense is less unfamiliar to parapsychologists
than Mr Rawcliffe supposes. What one can do by experiment is to
discover whether the knowing of something by one person can be
a sufficient condition for an appropriate action with respect to that
item of knowledge by another person in the absence of any com-
munication between them through sensory channels. Obviously
the success of such an experiment does not tell one that 'tele-
1952] Reviews 627
pathy' (or ESP or psi) is the appropriate name to apply to the
capacity revealed by such an experiment, nor anything further
about the nature of the capacity than is impHed in the experimental
situation. 'Telepathy' (or ESP or psi) is merely the name given
to the capacity indicated by the experiment, and new^ experiments
must be designed to discover anything further we want to know
about the capacity. There is nothing metaphysical about that ;
the concepts of parapsychology are parallel to such concepts as
'energy', 'radiation', etc.
It is rather surprising to find that a book of this kind has a fore-
word by Julian Huxley which expresses a hope that it may be
widely read and taken to heart. However, Huxley expresses dis-
agreement with the main thesis of the book, and says that he
cannot follow the author 'in stigmatizing studies on telepathy,
clairvoyance, etc., as "occult research", unfit to be admitted to
our universities' (p. 6).
The real difference between Mr Rawcliffe and the experimental
psychical researcher (or parapsychologist) is that between the
Inquisition and Galileo. He knows beforehand what can and what
cannot happen ; the psychical researcher wants to find out by
experiment. We can agree with him that we must find a 'rational'
explanation of parapsychological experimental results, but that is
not necessarily the explanation that would have seemed to us to be
the most rational one before experiment started. If ESP proves
to take place, then explanation by ESP is not an irrational one.
The question must be settled by experiment, and Mr Rawcliffe
gives us no new experimental facts and no new insight into the old
ones. Our problems are to be solved by experiment and not by
the methods of the debating society.
R. H. Thouless
The Psychic Source Book. Edited by Alson J. Smith. Intro-
duction by Pitirim A. Sorokin. New York, Creative Age
Press, 1 95 1, xii, 442 pp. S4.00.
This book is described by the publishers as 'a big, exhaustive,
factual compendium on the ever-alluring subject of extrasensory
perception and psychic research' ; and even after applying a
necessary corrective to a publisher's natural enthusiasm it can be
said the contents cover a wide field and should be a useful primer
for newcomers to parapsychology.
It consists mainly of twenty articles culled from the writings of
eminent scholars and scientists, about half of whom are from this
country. These articles are mostly of the review type and, though
necessarily condensed, give a fair account of their authors' views.
628 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
Thus we have F. W. H. Myers on 'The Daimon of Socrates',
J. W. Dunne's 'An Experiment with Time', G. W. Balfour on 'The
Ear of Dionysius', Walter Prince on 'Patricia Worth', J. H. Hyslop
on 'Mrs Piper', Mrs H. Sidgwick on Professor Gilbert Murray's
'Thought-transference experiments', the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas
on 'Book tests', Dr Soal's Myers Memorial Lecture 'The Ex-
perimental Situation in Psychical Research', Dr Rhine on 'Pre-
cognition'—all taken wholesale from the original articles and
making a rich and varied collection.
Introductions and explanatory notes, mostly quite short, have
been added by the compiler, the Rev. Alson J. Smith, and by
Pitirim Sorokin, Eileen J. Garrett, and J. G. Pratt. These express
a dualist view of mind and body and frankly assume that psychical
research has now established the reality of a Spirit of Man
transcending his material environment. To some this will detract
from the book's scientific value as going further than the presented
facts warrant. There are no hints of alternative interpretations.
With so vast a field to cover there must be many omissions even
in a compendium of 150,000 words. Thus nothing whatever is
said of physical mediumship, nor, rather surprisingly, considering
the country of origin, of psychokinesis. The bare word, if a
rather scanty index is to be trusted, only occurs twice in the text,
with no explanation. PK is not included in a useful glossary,
though 'telekinesis' is defined as being 'the alleged supernormal
movement of objects'. The use of the cautionary adjective is
interesting as it is not used in the parallel definitions of telepathy,
clairvoyance, precognition, etc., which are defined as established
facts. A bibliography is included with over 300 entries among
which are Bunyan's Pilgrinis Progress—and The Koran. There
is also a Biography of forty-six eminent personalities in psychical
research, and it is pleasant to see E. J. Dingw-all's name jostling
for a place in this Roll of Honour with Emanuel Swedenborg,
Harry Price, and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
G. W. F.
New Light on Survival. By Roy Dixon-Smith. London,
Rider, 1952. 328 pp. 21s.
In this book Mr Dixon-Smith has given us a detailed account of
his conversion to Spiritualism after the tragically early death of
his wife. It is written with great sincerity and enthusiasm, and
with the purpose of bringing the same comfort and assurance to
others which he has obtained from his experiences with both trance
and physical mediums. It is offered not merely as a narrative but
1952] Reviews 629
as a serious contribution towards evidence of survival, and it is
from this standpoint that it should be judged.
Part I consists mainly of descriptions of the author's sittings
with trance mediums, and in his Explanatory Note (page xvii) he
claims that 'the case for survival is at this stage considered to be
proved'. The reader's first impression is that the author is
unaware how much more difficult it has become to obtain crucial
evidence of survival owing to our increased knowledge of ESP.
Mr Dixon- Smith, however, gets over this by postulating that the
modus operandi between a discarnate mind and that of the medium
is a form of hypnosis ; but that the possibility of this process taking
place between medium and sitter is excluded by the latter closing
his subconscious mind 'as tightly as possible by will and auto-
suggestion' so that no medium 'can hook willy-nilly on to one's
subconscious memory' (p. 45). The author's attempts to prove
this statement are most unconvincing and can hardly be taken
seriously. There is strong evidence that telepathy between sitter
and medium does occur. (A typical example can be found in the
S.P.R. Journal for February 1948 entitled 'Emergence of an
apparently Pseudo-Communicator' by Mrs Heywood.) This
should not be considered a more 'extraordinary super-human
power' (p. 45) than that which the Spiritualist hypothesis entails.
An objective study of Mr Dixon-Smith's sittings reveals that a
great deal of the information given to him through mediums was
already known to him and was given in private sittings at which he
took his own notes (p. 62) and in certain cases had his hand on a
ouija board with that of the medium (p. 113). The author's
honesty is not being questioned, but this type of evidence does not
reach the standard required in psychical research. Proxy evi-
dence is far more valuable and he gives some interesting cases, but
he does not draw sufficient distinction between their evidential
value. Accurate information given to a proxy sitter is more
impressive when neither absent nor proxy sitter are known to each
other, and an involuntary leakage of information or an unconscious
memory cannot possibly play a part. It is true, however, that it is
the accumulation of evidence of personality which often brings
conviction to a sitter, and such evidence cannot be entirely dis-
regarded even though it may not come up to scientific standard.
Mr Dixon-Smith rightly reminds us of the famous cross-
correspondence cases, and others of high evidential standard pub-
lished by the S.P.R. , where an explanation based solely on ESP is
inadequate and postulates a degree of that faculty which is at
present beyond our knowledge. It is the existence of cases of this
standard which makes further and wider research of such im-
portance, but it is imperative that it should be carried out under
630 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
conditions of the most carefully devised control (however un-
assailable the good faith of the experimenter may be) and if
possible in conjunction with modern psychological research.
This applies with even greater force to the physical phenomena
described in Part II. They cover every form of manifestation
and are so remarkable that it is to be regretted that more details
are not given regarding the methods of control. This branch of
inquiry is far more subject to fraud and malobservation than the
author appears to realize, and it is to be hoped that Mr Dixon-
Smith will give us more detailed and corroborated descriptions of
his sittings in the next book which he has promised us.
The absence of an index is a great inconvenience.
K. A. G.
CORRESPONDENCE t
Qualitative Material and Theories of
Psi Phenomena
Sir,—Many members of the Society may, like myself, doubt
their ability to co-ordinate the facts of psychical research with
physiological science or to bring them within any metaphysical
scheme. If so, they will share my gratitude to Dr J. R. Smythies
for his paper in the Journal for September 1951, and to their
fellow-members who have commented on it in the issue for
January 1952. The kind of theory which would be most helpful
to us would be one that covered as many as possible of the facts of
psychical research which have been established, without bothering
about material that at the present time needs support from the
results of further research.
The literature of psychical research, in this and other countries,
is enormous. It would be impracticable for any intending
theorist to read every report in every publication with the atten-
tion necessary to form an opinion whether the occurrences there
described were properly attested, and whether in each case there
were adequate grounds for dismissing sensory clues, chance, and |
other 'normal' explanations. Should he succeed in completing 1
such a task he would have little leisure for theorising. 1
Fortunately, in assembling material to be brought under his 1
survey, he can profit by the labours of his predecessors in this |
Society. His concern will not be with separate, individual,
occurrences, least of all with instances, whether experimental,
|
1952] Correspondence 631
mediumistic, or spontaneous, which present peculiarities that
cannot readily be parallelled from other reported instances, them-
selves well attested. Exceptional instances are treacherous
ground, and he will be safer if he keeps to classes or types of
phenomena that are represented by several examples published in
S.P.R. Proceedings.
The long life of the Society, its freedom from corporate dogma,
and the enterprise of its members in research are a pretty good
guarantee that every sort of phenomenon will be investigated by a
member and reported to the Society. But no report will appear
in our Proceedings until it has been screened by the Committee of
Reference, which dates back to the very early days of the Society
and has numbered many men and women of outstanding ability,
critical judgment, and varied opinions.
It would be absurd to claim that our investigators or the Com-
mittee of Reference have made no mistakes. A few hoaxes have
succeeded, and examples of carelessness in experiment, observa-
tion, or record are to be found. But when several examples of
about the same type of supposedly paranormal occurrence are to
be found reported in our Proceedings, that type has, I suggest, a
prima facie claim to be included in any theoretical scheme.
Should the intending theorist share the doubt, which is some-
times expressed, as to the possibility of deciding whether such
qualitative material as spontaneous cases, mediumistic 'com-
munications' and so on can be attributed to chance or not, and
does not trust his own judgment, he can always seek the guidance
of notable sceptics, such as Mrs Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson,
whose critical abilities were exercised over most of the field of
psychic experience. I do not believe he will anywhere find a more
objective criterion for matter worth including in a theoretical
scheme than publication in Proceedings combined, where qualita-
tive material is concerned, with acceptance as probably paranormal
by these experts. This will give him quite as much material to
work on as he is likely to need or desire.
Now, if this yardstick be applied to the papers of Dr Smythies
and his critics, it will be noted that, while in some respects the
material discussed by them lies outside the limits suggested above,
there is a very large quantity and variety falling within those
limits which most of the writers neglect. With few exceptions
they confine their remarks to quantitative experiments. Some of
these, notably the Soal-Goldney experiments, thoroughly deserve
their attention. Others might conveniently wait until we have a
larger quantity of positive results obtained under good conditions.
If the results of quantitative experiment were typical of psychic
phenomena as a whole, there would be no ocassion to press a
632 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
theorist to travel outside them. But for reasons too well known to
readers of the Journal, arising from their being experimental and
quantitative, that is far from being the case. If, on the other
hand, there were no points of contact between the quantitative
and the qualitative, it might be simplest to get two teams on the
job in the assurance that their theories would not conflict or over-
lap. But as things are, attempts to frame a theoretical scheme
exclusively out of quantitative material may be quite misleading if
it is assumed to be applicable to other types of phenomena, and
even misleading as regards the quantitative material itself, as
obscuring its connexion with and partial resemblance to other
material left outside the scheme.
It is gratifying to note that our American colleagues are alive to
the importance of qualitative material. I would refer in particular
to the short paper by Dr Emanuel Schwartz in the American
Society's Journal for January 1952, 'The Psychodynamics of
Spontaneous Psi Experiences'. Referring to a previous article by
him (October 1949) he writes (p. 3) :
I suggested that over the period of the last seventy-five years the
original emphasis in psychical research [a footnote here mentions
Myers's Human Personality^ had been shifted from the experiencers to
the experiences. It seemed to me that psychical research divorced from
the study of human personality was a meaningless undertaking and that
the cul-de-sac into which psychical researchers have been led might
have been anticipated.
The general purpose of the article is to stress the need for the
study of motivation in psychic experiences and of the 'inter-
personal field', to use Professor Gardner Murphy's phrase. With
this object and with several passages in Dr Schwartz's article I am
in full sympathy. When, however, he speaks (p. 3) of the need to
shift the emphasis 'away from the "phenomena" and their
veridicality back to human beings', I think a source of possible
misconception is to be noted.
Let us take two imaginary cases. (A) Jones has a waking vision
of Smith being involved in a motor smash : Smith has not in fact
been so involved. (B) Jones has a similar vision at the moment
when Smith was in a motor smash a hundred miles away, the
attendant circumstances being so accurately reproduced in the
vision as to make an explanation by chance-coincidence highly
improbable. (How convincing these imaginary cases are!)
It would not, I suggest, be at all safe to assume that the inter-
personal relation between Jones and Smith was the same in the
two cases. It might be that the motivation of case A was an
emotion of Jones regarding Smith that was not reciprocated, and
r
1952] Correspondence 633
in case B an emotion that was. Whether that could be shown or
not, the difference between the two cases suggests a probable
difference in the psychological situation. It seems to me there-
fore that an analysis of the psychology of spontaneous cases (and
of mediumistic 'communications' also) will lose much of its value
unless the laborious first step be taken of sorting out the material
under examination into veridical and non-veridical. From his
praise of the early investigators, who tested each case very
thoroughly to see how far it could be counted as veridical, I should
infer that Dr Schwartz himself is under no misconception as to
the need for this, but some of his remarks might perhaps mislead
incautious readers of his article.
W. H. Salter
The Shackleton Experiments: Mr Rawcliffe's
Theory of Double Whispering
Sir,—In The Psychology of the Occult, Mr D. H. Rawcliffe puts
forward a theory of double whispering to account for the results
of the experiments with Basil Shackleton. Students of psychical
research will realize that the theory is so preposterous as to be
scarcely worth refuting, but for the sake of uninformed persons
who may read the book it may be advisable to make a few
comments.
The author supposes that the experimenter, in addition to
presenting the random numbers at the aperture in the screen and
calling in a loud voice the serial numbers 1-25, involuntarily
whispers the next number on his list or tags on its initial consonant
to the serial number. The Agent sitting on the other side of the
screen picks up this whisper, decodes it into the corresponding
animal's name, and whispers the name or its initial letter, and the
whisper is picked up by Shackleton sitting 18-20 feet away in the
next room. All this complicated series of exchanges is supposed
to be packed into the 2\ seconds between successive calls. When,
however, the experiment is speeded up to twice the normal rate,
the experimenter is supposed instead to whisper the next number
but one on his list, and this is said to account for the ( + 2) displace-
ment. This double whispering and decoding has now to be com-
pressed into an interval of i| seconds or less!
Shackleton succeeded brilliantly with no less than seven
different experimenters. All these, according to Mr Rawcliffe,
must have been whispering the number one or two places removed
from the one they were actually showing at the aperture, and all
of them must have been completely unaware of it
!
634 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may
In any case, in putting forward this theory Mr RawcHffe omits
to say that true involuntary articulation occurs as a reinforcement
effect and not as a deliberate separate process. He is therefore in
effect saying that the experimenter (i) looks up at the appropriate
random number on the list, (2) deliberately shifts his glance to the
next number or the next but one, (3) looks down to pick up the
card bearing the appropriate number, (4) presents it at the
aperture, (5) calls out the next serial number, and (6) deliberately
whispers the next random number or the next but one. All this,
plus the picking up and decoding of the whisper by the Agent,
and the latter's own whispering, would indeed constitute a pheno-
menon of the first order, even if not compressed into a maximum
of z\ seconds! Of the implication of fraud, I will only say that
ten different people—seven experimenters and three Agents
—
would have had to be party to it!
There are other phenomena—e.g. the success of one Agent and
the total failure of the other when two agents were employed
simultaneously, either with the same or with different targets
—
which Mr Rawcliffe's theory is incapable of accounting for, but
to deal with these would be a waste of your space and of the reader's
time.
I shall scarcely be expected to comment here on Mr Rawcliffe's
remarks on the conduct of the Antwerp-London experiments
with Mrs Stewart.
S. G. SOAL
ESP AS Guesswork
Sir,—In two recent broadcast talks on 'The Significance of
Parapsychology', and in the conflated version of these which I gave
to the Society in February, I suggested that if we thought of ESP
not as a species of either cognition or perception but as a kind of
guesswork, we might be led to investigate ordinary guesswork ;
and that what we found out might throw into relief significant
peculiarities of paranormal guesswork. I have been asked to
expand and explain this suggestion. I am glad to be driven to try
to do this : for what I originally had in mind was an extremely
hazy and tentative idea ; and it is good to be forced to find what
—
if anything—can be made of it.
Obviously the first difficulty lies in the notion of ordinary guess-
work. For—at least in the present state of our ignorance—there
is no way to distinguish decisively in any single case between a
guess (or hunch or dream or vision) which just happens to be right
and a correct guess (or hunch or dream or vision) in which the
1952] Correspondence 635
ESP factor is operating. This is because all we can at present
mean by the term 'ESP factor' is the factor which gives rise to
significant deviations from pure chance expectation in a series of
guesses (or whatnot). If we use the term to mean more than this,
then the evidence at present available has not established the
presence of an ESP factor : if '
E S P ' is taken to refer to the
putative unknown means or mechanism by which successful ESP
runs are achieved, then there are no sufficient grounds for thinking
genuine ESP occurs ; for though conjuror's means and mechan-
ism can produce bogus ESP effects, we have no reason to suppose
genuine E SP runs are produced by any means or mechanism ; and
every reason to suppose the contrary. (What means or mechanism
could operate backwards to produce genuine precognitive ESP?)
The difficulty could be got round, at least temporarily, by pre-
scribing that guesswork (and whatnot) was ordinary when and
only when it was done by someone who has always failed to score
significantly in E S P tests. This is no doubt excessively rigorous ;
but it's as well to be on the safe side, by thus excluding the dud
runs of the sometimes successful.
Now what I mean by studying ordinary guesswork (and what-
not) is finding out why people guess one thing and not another
(dream one thing and not another, have one particular hunch or
vision and not another) when no ESP factor is involved. If we
knew more about this it might be easier to see more of the nature
of this mysterious ESP factor, which appears occasionally to up-
set the ordinary mechanisms and motivations of the normal.
What leaps to mind here are Freud's masterpieces : The Psycho-
pathology of Everyday Life and The Interpretation of Dreams. But
a great deal of other work has been done ; and much more needs
to be done.
Now I have developed the idea, I am no more sure than I was
when I first made the suggestion that there really is anything in it
But perhaps, even if this is just one more dead end, it will have
been worthwhile to have reminded psychical researchers
—
especially those working on putative spontaneous phenomena
—
that Freud did show that very many apparently paranormal
predictive omens and dreams could be sufficiently explained in
terms of the motives of the dreamer.
Antony Flew
636 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [may w
'The Clairvoyant Theory of Perception' I|
Sir,—I should like to make two comments on Captain \\
Moncrieff's letter in the March issue of this Journal.
(1) I did not say, as Captain Moncrieff suggests, that his theory
cannot account for disordered vision in cases of cataract. In fact,
I expressly said that it could account for this but not for disordered
vision in cases of disease of the optical apparatus proximal to the
retina, i.e. in the optic tracts, optic radiations, and occipital and ,
parietal cortex. Captain Moncrieff explains the various phen-
omena and syndromes which I mentioned thus :
'
... if clair-
voyance is a mental faculty, such abnormal cerebral conditions as
above would naturally be expected to produce them. . . . Thus,
in case of " vascular lesions of the parietal lobe " we would hold
that their effect on vision may possibly be due to the lack of
integration or correlation in respect to the cerebral processes.'
Now the disorders of vision caused by such vascular lesions are
fairly extensive, and the visual field is grossly disorganized. Thus
the integrative and correlating processes, which are held to fail in '
these cases, must be very greatly responsible for the orderly 1
presentation of the normal visual field. Furthermore, experimental '
psychology has shown that the actual size of objects in the visual I
field and the spatial relations between these objects is quite different I
from the size and relationship of the objects of the common
physical world. This is particularly so in the case of distant 1
objects. If the actual nature of the visual field is borne in mind,
together with the evidence as to its means of presentation that we
can actually inspect—after-images and the stroboscopic phen-
omena—it seems that these integrative and correlating processes
in themselves provide an adequate explanation of the missing link
in perception. The visual and auditory fields and the somatic
sensory field making up the perceived body must actually be con-
structed by mechanism—that is by process in extension. Whether
this mechanism is in the brain or in the psyche is not immediately
relevant. The problem of externality of sensa, which Captain
Moncrieff's theory attempts to solve, is an entirely false problem
due primarily to the confusion in common sense between the
perceived body and the physical body and to the confusion in
neurology between the perceived body and the body-image. All
sensa, including the visual fields and the perceived body, are
wholly inside the human organism—geographically, anatomically, ,
and physiologically inside it.
(2) I would not agree that '
no theory can be expected to
provide a full and adequate explanation both in respect of normal I
and abnormal conditions of vision '. There is no clear-cut
Correspondence 637
division in nature between the normal and the abnormal, and any
theory which cannot account for both is inadequate.
In conclusion, I would like to suggest for further reading Paul
Schilder's book The Itnage and Appearance of the Human
Body (London, Kegan Paul, 1935). Further advances in philo-
sophy depend largely upon the integration into the existing
philosophical structure of the large body of evidence contained in
the special humanistic sciences of neurology, neurophysiology,
experimental psycholog}% and neuro-anatomy.
J. R. Smythies
OBITUARY
J. G. PiDDINGTON
We regret to record the death, on i April at the age of 83, of Mr
J. G. Piddington. A member of the Council for many years, he
was elected a Vice-President in 1921 and President in 1924. He
contributed several papers to the Proceedings on the Cross-
correspondence scripts, and was Trustee of the Research Endow-
ment Fund for many years. An obituary notice will be published
in the Proceedings.
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN
Y ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
JOURNAL
of the
Society for Psychical Research
Volume XXXVI No. 671 July-October 1952
(Double Number)
THREE SCORE YEARS AND TEN
The S.P.R., 1882-1952
Seventy years would be a fairly long period for the life of any
research society that was dependent entirely on the financial
support and energy of its members and had no backing from
professional or academic interests. For such a society to be en-
gaged for all that time on an investigation as full of difficulties and
pitfalls as psychical research, to have survived two wars and three
decades of almost uninterrupted financial crisis, and at the end
to have emerged with a roll of full members much larger than at
any time before the Second World War, is a truly remarkable feat.
It proves that in 1882 its foundations were well and truly laid, and
suggests that this is an appropriate moment to recall to memory
the men and women who laid them, the objects they had in view,
and the principles by which they wished themselves and their
successors to be guided.
'Psychical research' was a new term intended by our founders
to mean systematic inquiry into several debatable questions having
little in common except that they did not seem capable of a solution
within the generally accepted scheme of natural science. There
were, for example, stories of apparitions and haunted houses, too
numerous and apparently too well authenticated to be lightly
dismissed as old wives' tales : how much fact underlay the accumu-
lations of hearsay and credulity? What light would a scientific
investigation of hypnotism throw on the structure of the mind,
and on those extensions of perceptive faculty reported by earlier
inquirers? Could recent experiments in thought-transference
be confirmed, and, if so, could the modus operandi be defined?
Was it true that spirits could 'materialize' themselves in visible
and tangible form? Were there forces, unrecognized by Science,
capable of moving material objects?
639
640 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
The solution of these and many similar questions clearly ]
depended on the conduct of a more sustained and better co-ordi-
j
nated inquiry than any that had hitherto been, or could be, pursued '
by individuals or small groups of friends. A conference of
interested persons was accordingly convened in London in
January 1882 by Professor William Barrett, the Dublin physicist,
at which a project was submitted for a society to conduct systematic
investigations. This resulted in the formation a month later of the
present Society.
Henry Sidgwick, who in the following year became Professor of
Moral Philosophy at Cambridge, was elected as first President,
and it was fortunate that the nascent Society should have been
guided by a man of his character and intellectual gifts, his rare
union of cautious judgment with tireless determination, and his
experience of many forms of supposedly psychic phenomena
gained in active association with Frederic Myers and Edmund
Gurney. Both were men of exceptional ability. They had made
many experiments and observations, the results of which their
wide reading and personal contacts with American and Continental 1
psychologists enabled them to correlate with the significant
developments of the time, especially in medical psychology. Of
the two, Gurney had the greater aptitude for experiment, and
could give more time to it ;
Myers had no rival as an exponent of
facts and ideas, which are now through the Society's work familiar .
to all, but were then startlingly novel.
The new Society attracted men and women of eminence in
many branches of science, in philosophy, scholarship, literature,
j
and politics : to name a few, William Crookes, Lord Rayleigh,
Oliver Lodge, A. R. Wallace, William Bateson, W. E. Gladstone,
A. J. Balfour, John Ruskin, Alfred Tennyson, R. L. Stevenson,
'Lewis Carroll', Leslie Stephen.
Opinions of the most diverse kind flourished among the mem-
bers on such questions as the reality of various kinds and instances
of supposedly psychic occurrences, and especially as to their
bearing on the problem of human survival. Some were already
convinced Spiritualists, others hard-shell sceptics. All, however,
agreed to accept the principle laid down in the manifesto printed
in Volume I of the Society's Proceedings, to approach the prob-
lems of psychical research 'without prejudice or prepossession of
any kind, and in the same spirit of exact and unempassioned
enquiry which has enabled science to solve so many problems,
once not less obscure nor less hotly debated'. ^ This has been ever
since, and still is, the foundation of the Society's policy.
Attempts have indeed been made to turn the Society into a
' Proc, i, 4. j
1952] Three Score Years and Ten 641
doctrinaire body, but these have always been frustrated by the
resistance of an overwhelming majority of the members. Seces-
sions there have been from both wings. A few years after the
Society's foundation a handful of Spiritualists resigned in dis-
approval of the critical attitude of some prominent members
towards physical phenomena. A dozen years later a few sceptics
left because they thought they detected a Spiritualist bias in the
Council. But there have been no splits or secessions of importance.
Anyone with a fairly long practical experience of S.P.R. work
would probably agree that differences of opinion are no obstacle to
harmonious co-operation among researchers of ordinary intelli-
gence who make objectivity their aim.
The inaugural manifesto, while attempting no precise definition
of psychical research, gave a list of subjects which it was proposed
to investigate. This is of historical interest owing to the curious
phrasing of some of the items and the way in which they were
grouped. The list was comprehensive and may be briefly de-
scribed as a programme for the investigation of all those aspects
of human personality, and the faculties, states, and phenomena
connected therewith, that were not recognized by general scientific
opinion and were not at the time being fully investigated by any
other science. That puts the matter negatively. A positive
definition might be harder to formulate, but the full exploration
of the subconscious mind (not to be confused with the Freudian
'unconscious') might not be far off the mark.
In practice the new Society was in its earlier years mainly
engaged in pursuing those lines of inquiry which several of the
members had been following before its foundation, introducing
order and method where necessary. Some of the lines of inquiry
led nowhere. Others were successfully followed up to a point at
which it became profitable to leave further progress to some other
organization. Thus, much of the pioneer work in this country
relating to hypnotism and medical psychology in general was done
by members of the Society, at first separately, but later grouped
into a Medical Section. When, however, after the First World
War the British Psychological Society formed a Medical Section
of its own, there was no point in continuing the Medical Section
of the S.P.R.
But there is no other organization to which as yet the main de-
partments of psychical research could be transferred with the
assurance that they would receive the thorough investigation that
they need. Two main departments have long been recognized.
One is concerned with the so-called 'physical' phenomena, such
as the movement of objects without muscular or mechanical force
('telekinesis'). The other relates to 'mental' phenomena : for
642 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
example, the transmission of impressions otherwise than through
the normal channels of sense ('telepathy'). (Needless to say,
neither of the above descriptions should be regarded as an assertion
that the subject-matter of the description has been proved to exist).
As a rough-and-ready classification, which is easily understood,
the division into 'physical' and 'mental' may be conveniently
retained, even though it suggests a sharp distinction which is no
longer fashionable.
As regards physical phenomena, although much good investiga-
tion had already been done by Henry Sidgwick and his wife,
Myers and Gurney, the general level of investigation was low.
It was urgently necessary to raise it by showing inexpert sitters
how easily they could be deceived through their inability to
observe accurately what happened in the seance-room under the
conditions usually prevalent. This was effectively done by Richard
Hodgson who arranged for a friend, Davey, to dupHcate by
'normal' means, i.e. conjuring, some physical phenomena that
were then astounding the public before groups of sitters who were
asked to write down what they thought they had seen. They were
then told what in fact they had seen and how and why they were in
error.^ When, however, conditions were formulated that would
effectively exclude deception, great difficulty was experienced in
finding mediums willing to accept them. In consequence the field
of investigation into physical phenomena has proved disappoint-
ingly barren, and there are few records of positive results obtained
by competent researchers under good conditions. The best
example is perhaps the report by the Hon. Everard Feilding,
W. W. Baggally, and Hereward Carrington, a very strong team,
of their sittings in Naples with Eusapia Palladino.^
Research into the 'mental' phenomena was actively pursued
along two lines. There were first the collection and analysis of
spontaneous occurrences of the kind that are the basis of the
traditional ghost story. Two large-scale inquiries were initiated
by the Society, the first conducted by Gurney, Myers, and Frank
Podmore, and resulting in the publication in 1886 of Phantasms
of the Living. The second was the 'Census of Hallucinations',
the report on which was published in 1894.^ It was mainly the
work of Mrs Henry Sidgwick and Miss Alice Johnson, later Re-
search Officer of the Society, both of whom were familiar with
scientific method. From Phantasms and the Census it was apparent
that narratives of persons being 'seen' by their friends, at a time
when they were involved in some sudden and unexpected crisis
occurring at a distance, a fatal accident, for example, were too
' Proc, iv, 381-495, and viii, 259-310.
- Proc, xxiii, 306-569. ^ Proc, x, 25-422.
1952] Three Score Years and Ten 643
well authenticated and too numerous to be explicable by mistakes
of memory or by chance. A strong case was made out for these
so-called 'crisis-apparitions' being due to the 'externalization' by
the percipient as a vision of telepathic impressions received by
him subconsciously.
It is difficult, many would say impossible, to prove through the
analysis, however skilful, of spontaneous incidents that mental
impressions can be transmitted from one person to another other-
wise than by the recognized channels of sensory perception. The
elimination of chance as a conceivable explanation cannot be made
absolutely certain. These cases can, however, throw much light
on the working of telepathy, if confirmed by the results of experi-
ment.
This was the second line of investigation. It was pursued, not
perhaps as systematically as it might have been, in the early days
of the Society, and is now the main preoccupation of psychical
researchers both in this country and in the United States. Several
different types of experiment have been tried. Sometimes the
subject-matter has been of a more or less complex kind, such as
incidents of real life, scenes from fiction, or pictures. In other
instances the 'targets' have been cards with a limited number of
designs on them to choose from. The former type, of which Dr
Gilbert Murray's experiments^ are a well-known example, is, like
the crisis-apparitions and for similar reasons, not conclusive to all
minds, although highly informative as to process. It is on the
second type that interest is now mainly concentrated, since con-
trolled quantitative experiment not only enables the investigator
to determine precisely the extent to which a particular result may
be expected to occur by chance, but by the refinements of modern
statistical technique to distinguish between difi"erent modes of
'paranormal cognition', or 'extrasensory perception' (ESP), as it
is now more generally called.
Experiments carried out in recent years by a large number of
investigators, among whom Professor J. B. Rhine of Duke Univer-
sity, the late Whately Carington,^ and Dr Soal deserve special
mention, show that telepathy is not the only paranormal 'mental'
phenomenon requiring study. There is evidence that some sub-
jects have a grasp of future events exceeding the powers of rational
inference ('precognition'),^ and cases are on record of the direct
apprehension of facts about physical objects (e.g. the order of
cards in a shuffled pack) not normally known either to the per-
cipient or anyone else ('clairvoyance').^ There may be other
paranormal faculties to be explored in the same way.
1 Proc, xxix, 46-110 and xxxiv, 212-74 ^ Proc, xlvi and xlvii.
^ Proc, xlvii, 21-150. ^ Proc, xlviii, 1-28.
644 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JUly
The question whether human personality survives the death of
the body is one that falls within the scope of the Society's objects,
although it is not specifically mentioned in the founders' manifesto.
No reasonable person can be indifferent to this problem, and to
many psychical researchers, including Myers, it has seemed the
fundamental problem, to which all others are subsidiary. But
Myers, as his great work Human Personality and its Survival of
Bodily Death shows, was well aware that the problem must be
approached through careful inquiry into the personality of man
as we are familiar with it in the flesh, its powers and possibilities.
No one, whatever the importance he attaches to the survival issue,
ought to regard as mis-spent the time, labour, and skill now being
devoted to a thorough exploration of E S P
.
The direction taken by psychical inquiry at any given time has
always been determined by the human material available for study.
The psychical researcher should be prepared to deal with what-
ever kind of phenomenon he can bring within his net, whether
mental or physical, experimental or spontaneous. He cannot plan
the order in which problems will present themselves for solution.
A few years after its foundation the Society had the good
fortune to contact Mrs Leonora Piper, the most remarkable of all
'mental' mediums. She was under close observation for about a
quarter of a century, and when her powers were beginning to
decline, another 'mental' medium, Mrs Osborne Leonard, whose
powers were little inferior, became available for study. Through
these two mediums, both of whom were most co-operative and of
unimpeachable integrity, 'communications' were received which
impressed as paranormal all the trained investigators with ex-
tensive experience of them, and were regarded by many as proof
of the survival of the individuals from whom they ostensibly
came. The diff"erence of opinion rested on doubts as to the scope
of telepathy between medium and sitter, and possibly between the
medium and some third party unknown to her.^
In 1 901, a few weeks after Myers's death, began the scripts of
'the S.P.R. group of automatists', which lasted for over thirty years.
About a dozen automatists, many of them members of the S.P.R.,
produced scripts which taken separately often seemed to have
little meaning, but when put together were found to convey a
coherent message, ostensibly coming from a group which included
Myers, Sidgwick, and Gurney. The significant point about these
'cross-correspondences', as they were called, was that they em-
bodied an elaborate pattern divided among the scripts of the
diff^erent automatists, certainly not attributable to the conscious
mind, nor apparently to the subconscious mind of any one of
^W.n.SaXtcT, Trance Mediumship. (S.P.R., 1950).
195*] Three Score Years and Ten 645
them.^ Something more than telepathy between the living seemed,
therefore, to be involved. For this reason, and on account of
other features deserving study in detail, the scripts are generally
regarded as among the most important pieces of evidence for
survival. But once again the question arises, Do we know enough
about the paranormal powers of incarnate minds to say with
confidence that such or such occurrences can or cannot be assigned
to them?
The Society was formed to undertake investigation on a wide
front, neglecting nothing that could promote knowledge of human
personality. It has until now held fast to this purpose, and should
continue to do so. No line of research in which progress has been
made should be abandoned. But there is one form of research
which did not in the past attract as much attention as it might have
done : controlled experiment into ESP. This is a line which
now needs, and is likely for some time to need, vigorous prosecu-
tion. The planning and conduct of experiments of this kind and
the analysis of the results are an extremely technical business
calling for highly trained researchers supported by assistants
handling the heavy incidental routine work, as is customary in an
ordinary psychological laboratory. This task would not in any
way prevent the Society from continuing its traditional, qualitative
researches, as and when opportunity offered, but would rather
advance them by enabling some elements of the problems to which
they are directed to be more precisely defined.
W. H. S.
THE SOLUTION OF PROBLEMS IN DREAMS
By G. F. Dalton
Summary
Brief accounts are given of a number of dreams in which
problems are solved, or (as a special case) lost articles found. A
general description of such dreams is given. All of them are
wish-fulfillment or anxiety dreams, and the dream-figures which
appear in some do so as a part of the wish or the anxiety. The
wish-fulfilment principle is further used to account for the fact
that the lost-article dream usually shows the article as at the time
* H. F. Saltmarsh, Evidence of Personal Survival from Cross-corres-
pondences. (Bell, 1938).
646 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY it
of finding, not of losing. In some cases there is a precognitive A
element, although the essential information is obtained through
retrocognition ; to explain these the hypothesis of a double dream
is put forward. In some cases where the dreamer is not the loser ^
of the article (Squires, Chaffin) there must be a telepathic com- [|
munication ; the difficulty of locating this at any moment of i
j,
ordinary time is considered, and it is concluded that communica-
tion takes place between four-dimensional entities. It is shown i
that clairvoyance is not a necessary hypothesis, retrocognition, ''
telepathy, and precognition being sufficient to explain all the facts.
In cases not concerned with lost articles (Lamberton, Hilprecht) II
J
the prima facie conclusion is that much intellectual work must |
j
have taken place in sleep. The incongruity of this with the 1
]
general habits of the dreaming mind is pointed out, and it is
suggested that here too there may be a precognitive element. In
conclusion, the 'solution' dream is compared with other psycholo- <
^
gical events, including religious conversion.
From the earliest times a type of dream has been known in 1
[
which a problem is solved, or (a special case of very frequent j
occurrence) a lost article found. Professor Dodds^ gives examples 1
from Greek temple records. Synesius, in his treatise on dreams I
(a.d. 404 or 405), considers the question in the light of his own I
j
experience. '. . . Of many of the things which present difficulties '
to us when awake, some of these it [the dream] makes completely f
clear while we are asleep, and others it helps us to explain. ... [
It has frequently helped me to write books, for it has prepared the
j
mind and made the diction appropriate to the thought. . . . More- ,
over when I am engaged in the chase, it has suggested to me ; ,
stratagems of the hunter's art. . .
.'^
Although he gives no details, it is probable that these revelations
did not take a dramatic form ; the Muses did not give him advice
about his style, nor Artemis about hunting, or he would surely
have mentioned the fact.
The first reasonably detailed and trustworthy account comes
from St Augustine. As with most of the following cases, I give a
condensation.
I. Eulogiiis.^ A rhetorician named Eulogius, an ex-pupil of
Augustine's, found himself in difficulties with a passage of Cicero which
he had to expound to his class the next day. He was greatly troubled
over this, and could scarcely sleep. In the night he dreamed that
^ 'Telepathy and Clairvoyance in Classical Antiquity.' Journal of j
Parapsychology, December 1946.
^ Treatise on Dreams, sect. 9 ; trans. A. Fitzgerald, 1930.
'
^ De cura pro ynortuis gerenda, sect. 11. . : f't .* .
The Solution of Problems in Dreams 647
Augustine appeared to him and explained the passage. Augustine
heard this story from Eulogius on his return to Africa.
Augustine quotes this for comparison with the celebrated Milan
case, to show that dream-figures may be subjective. The latter,
though third-hand and anonymous, can scarcely be left out of
consideration.
2. Milan} A young man in Milan was proceeded against for a debt
incurred by his father, who had recently died. The creditor produced
the father's promise to pay. The son was sure that the debt had been
paid, otherwise the father would have made some mention of it in his
will ;
however, he had no evidence, and was much distressed. In a
dream the father appeared to him and told him where the receipt was.
The son found it, and was able to prove that the debt had been paid.
A third dream, of a decidedly different type, is given in
Augustine's Confessions.'^
3. St Monica. '. . . For whence else was that dream of hers, by
which thou comfortedst her ; after which she allowed me to live with
her, and to eat at the same table in house with her, which she had
already begun to be unwilling to do, refusing and detesting the
blasphemies of my error. [Augustine was at this time a Manichaean.]
For she saw, in her sleep, herself standing upon a wooden rule \in
quadam regula lignea], and a very beautiful young man coming towards
her, with a cheerful countenance and smiling upon her, herself being
grieved and far gone with sorrowfulness. Which young man when he
had demanded of her the causes of her sadness and daily weepings . . .
and she had answered that it was my perdition that she bewailed ; he
bade her rest contented, and behold, that where she herself was, there
was I also. Who when she looked aside, she saw me standing by her
upon the same rule.'
Nine years later, Augustine was converted to Christianity.
This is practically a first-hand case, for St Monica told the
dream at once to Augustine. Its genuineness is, I think, proved
by the play on the word 'rule', which is as intelligible in Latin as
in English. Neither Monica nor Augustine would in their waking
lives have put a pun into the mouth of a divine messenger ; on the
other hand, the tendency of the dreaming mind to puns is well
known.
I have not come across any well-attested cases occurring during
the next thirteen hundred years. It is possible that they were not
considered remarkable enough to be worth writing down. Mme
de Marteville's experience has survived through the accident of a
Swedenborgian legend having formed round it.
^ De cura pro mortuis, sect. 11.
2 Book III, trans. W. Watts.
648 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jULY
4. Mme de Marteville. This lady, whose husband had recently died,
was called upon to pay a debt said to have been contracted by him.
Knowing him to be methodical in money matters, she was sure that he
had paid the debt, and kept the receipt ; the latter, however, could not
be found. She was very worried, and applied to Swedenborg, who she
thought might be able to get in touch with her husband. 'Eight days
after she had made her request to Swedenborg, Mme de Marteville
saw her late husband in a dream, and from him learned the place where
she would find the desired receipt. She woke up at 2 a.m., satisfied
herself at once of the truth of the dream, and went to sleep again.
Towards eleven o'clock Swedenborg called, knowing nothing of what
had happened. He also, as he said, had seen M. de Marteville last
night. He wished to talk with him, but the latter would not enter into
the subject, because he had to go to his wife in order to let her make
an important discovery.' (According to the legend, of course, the
discovery was made by Swedenborg.) :
The latter part of the foregoing story is from a letter written in
1775 by a Danish 'General von E.', the second husband of Mme
de Marteville. Professor R. Hennig, who quotes it,^ concludes
that the story is now cleared up 'in a quite harmless and natural
way', apart from the last sentence, which may be considered as 'a
scarcely believable embroidery'. But even taking Mme de
Marteville's dream by itself, it is surely unduly disparaging to say,
as Hennig does, that it is no more wonderful than dozens of
similar stories. He gives a case, from 'the quite uncritical Perty',
which concerns a clergyman's widow, a secret drawer, and a red
velvet bag. This same case is quoted by du Prel and Biichner, the
original source, it seems, being J. C. Hennings's Traiime iind Nacht-
wandler, published in 1784. If there are 'dozens' to choose from,
why is this anonymous and doubtful tale bandied about from
author to author?
I pass over the affair of Mr R—d, narrated by Scott in a note
to The Antiquary. It is third-hand and anonymous, it has
obviouslj' been 'written up', and it has been given already by
half-a-dozen authors. Its chief point of interest is that at the time
of the search Mr R—d had given up the search for the misssing
document. This, as will be seen, is a very frequent feature of
these cases ; it occurs also in the following :
5. Lady Miller.^ Sir John Miller died. His wife had always under-
stood that he was to leave her the house and a large jointure ; but no
will could be found. The heir-at-law allowed Lady Miller to stay for
six months in the house in order to search for the missing will. At last
^ 'Das Urteil iiber Swedenborg im Lichte der heutigen Wissenschaft.'
Zeitschrift fiir kritischen Okkultismus, 1927.
^ Miss F. P. Cobbe, 'Unconscious Cerebration', in Darwinism in
Morals and Other Essays, 1872.
1952] The Solution of Problems in Dreams 649
she came I0 the conclusion that her memory must have deceived her.
On the last night of the six months Sir John Miller appeared to her,
standing beside the bed, and said solemnly : 'There is a will!' Extra
time was allowed for a further search, and in the end the will was found.
There appears to be no reason to doubt the authenticity of this ;
but it might be objected that it is a waking hallucination rather
than a dream. However, an apparition to a person in bed, who
has just awakened or is just about to go to sleep, is so close to the
region of dream that it would be pedantic to exclude it.
6. Cashier} In an Edinburgh bank a customer one day insisted on
being served before his turn. He was a stammerer and noisy, and
caused so much annoyance that the cashier agreed to serve him first in
order to get rid of him. Eight or nine months later, the books of the
bank could not be made to balance ; there was a deficiency of £6.
Several days and nights were spent trying to trace the error, but without
success. One night in a dream the whole affair of the stammerer was
re-enacted, and on waking the cashier (who had completely forgotten
the incident) found that the amount paid to the stammerer, had
not been entered in the book of interests.
This account is anonymous, but was given to Abercrombie at
first hand. Although it contains two unusual features, there is no
special reason to doubt its genuineness.
Among over 700 cases set out in Phantasms of the Living, only
one. No. 66, can be included in the class under discussion. It is
another borderland hallucination.
7. F.R.C.P.^ A doctor was attending a delirious woman. Her
symptoms puzzled him ; he suspected alcoholism, but could not con-
firm this. He wished he could get into the house late at night. One
night in bed he had a vision of the proprietor of the patient's house
standing under a lamp post in the street, talking to another man. He
rose at once, went to the spot he had seen in his vision, and found the
two men there. He accompanied the landlord back to the house, went
in, and found the maid giving drink to the patient.
This case was twenty years old at the time of recording, and no
confirmation could be obtained. It is no doubt genuine, since it
satisfied Gurney, Myers, and Podmore ; but one would have liked
a great deal more detail.
With Myers's papers in Proceedings we are on firm ground.
The cases are first-hand and detailed. Eighteen cases are given
in Volume viii, and four more in Volume xi. Most of these
are straightforward stories of articles lost by the dreamer, and
^ Ahercromhie, On the Intellectual Powers, 1821.
^ Phantasms of the Living, i, 267.
650 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
recovered by a direct vision of the article without the help of any
dream-figure ; but the following present special points of interest :
8. Mrs Stuart} A friend lost a stone from a ring. 'I would not
have done this for the world ; it belonged to my father,' he said. All
searched, but without success. Mrs Stuart that night dreamed of the
stone lying on the lawn under a fallen leaf, with dewdrops sparkling in
the sun. She woke, went out at once—it was 6 a.m.—and found the
stone just as in the dream.
9. A.v.S? A little girl, eight or nine years old, lost a knife. 'The
loss nearly broke her heart.' Next night she dreamed that her dead
brother appeared and showed her the place where the knife was. It
was found there next day.
10. Wilniot.^ Mr Wilmot, a gardener, lost his wages (fifteen
shillings) on his way home. He made every enquiry, but without
success. During the next night he dreamed that he went to a house he
had visited the day before, and, crossing the road after he had left it,
walked into a mud heap ; that his foot struck the paper containing the
money, the half-sovereign rolled away and the five shillings remained
under his foot. The dream was repeated. Next day he went to the
place indicated, and the dream fulfilled itself exactly.
11. Peterson.^ Some crucial evidence was missing in a case in which
Mr Peterson was engaged as a barrister. He dreamed that he was
addressing the court, and declared that he had found in an account-
book an entry which cleared up the mystery. The opposing counsel
then denounced him as a liar, Peterson in reply threw an inkstand at
his head, and in short the dream proceeded in a dream-like manner.
On waking he at once went to his client and found the entry as in the
dream.
12. Yates.^ Mrs Yates lost some photographs. A year later she
dreamed of taking out a certain drawer and finding them ; but on
waking she did not look there." Some months later the drawer was
taken out for another reason, and the photographs were found.
13. Squires.'' The dreamer's friend, Davis, lost his watch. Both
men were at the time employed on an American cattle-farm. Squires
was sympathetic ; 'could not keep his mind off the watch, and, after
two or three days' thinking of it, went to bed one night still thinking
of it.' In his dream he saw the watch. The dream vision is described
in detail ; the watch was lying in long grass, with its chain in a half
circle. Next day Squires went to the place and found the watch. At
the time of losing it he had been some distance away, and could not
have seen it fall.
1 Proc, viii, 384. " Ibid, 387.
^ Ibid, 388. " Ibid., 396. 5 Ibid., 383.
" This unenterprising behaviour contrasts with the splendid zeal of
Mr Peterson, who started from his bed at 2.30 a.m., called for boots and
saddle and relays of horses, knocked up his client after a three hours' ride,
had the books brought before him, and to his surprise found that the
dream was correct!
' Proc, xi, 397.
1952] The Solution of Problems in Dreams 651
14. Howe} Judge Howe had bought a house, and, naturally, had
made enquiries as to title, liens, etc. He dreamed that he met the
sheriff, who told him that he was going to sell the house on account
of a debt of S446.50, in a claim of R. M. v. J. Chaffe. Judge Howe
next day told his dream to Chaffe junior, from whom he had bought
the house (the Chaffe mentioned in the dream being dead). Mr Chaffe
went to his ledger and turned up an entry of a debt of S444.50 due to
R. M. from his father, which with interest came to S446.50, the exact
amount mentioned in the dream. The debt had however been settled
before the death of Mr Chaffe senior.
Mr Chaffe gives his ow^n statement confirming Judge Howe's,
and making clear that he knew of the debt, and merely referred to
the ledger for confirmation. This was not the case as regards the
interest, however. According to Ho\ve, Chaffe was surprised to
find in the ledger a pencil entry giving the amount of the interest ;
Chaffe himself says that he reckoned it there and then.
Professor W. Romaine Newbold's paper on Subconscious
Reasofiing^ contains two interesting examples.
15. Lamberton. Professor Wm. A. Lamberton tried to solve a
mathematical problem by algebraical means. After a week or two, T
came to the conclusion that I was bogged'. He dismissed the problem
from his mind. In his bedroom there was a disused blackboard ; and
one morning a week later, when waking, he saw on this blackboard a
diagram giving a geometrical solution. The diagram vanished at once,
but he remembered it, and it proved correct.
Newbold's second case is so well known that it need not be
quoted. It is that of Professor Hilprecht, whose archaeological
problem was solved by the help of a dream-figure of an Assyrian
priest.
Hilprecht's dream, with the R—d, Eulogius, and Milan cases,
are quoted by Andrew Lang.^ He adds tw^o others coming within
his own knowledge—lost articles recovered without dream-
figures. Havelock Ellis* also discusses the question, and gives a
modern parallel to the Eulogius case in w'hich the mentor is a
chemical expert and the dreamer an inventor. Carpenter^ devotes
a chapter to 'Unconscious Cerebration', but (apart from extracts
from Miss Cobbe's paper) his examples are concerned with
somnambulism, and are in a different class. For the same reason
I have not included accounts of the numerous lost articles re-
covered by 'Dreaming Joe' (Johannes Jonsson), as described by
Professor A. Bjarnason.« 'Dreaming Joe' was questioned in his
sleep, and replied giving information about the objects. Clearly
^
Proc, xi, 403. ' Proc, xii, 11. ' Dreams and Ghosts, 1897.
The World of Dreams, Constable, 191 1.
« Mental Physiology, 1874. Journal, xvii, 53-82-
652 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [july
this is not ordinary sleep, and the cases are not spontaneous and
cannot properly be included here.
Mrs Sidgwick's collection Phantasms of the Living^ contains two
cases of 'solution' type. One of these (Wilson, p. 71) is a waking
impression, but is otherwise similar to the Squires case ; the other
is a dream. I give Mrs Sidgwick's summary.
16. Hodgson.^ 'A burglary had occurred at Mrs Hodgson's house
on September 30th, 1897, and among other things a small papier-mach^
box which she valued had been taken. About a week later she dreamed
she went into the coal cellar and found it hidden among the fine coal.
She told her daughter of the dream the next morning, but it seemed so
absurd that no search was made. In August 1898 Mr Hodgson went
into the cellar to see how much coal there was, and found amongst the
fine coal the lost box wrapped in a newspaper of the date of the
burglary.'
The next case is as well known as Hilprecht's, but it is a crucial
one.
17. Chaffin.^ J. L. Chafiin in 1905 made a will leaving his farm to
the third of four sons. In 19 19 he made a new will leaving everything
equally between his sons. This will was unwitnessed, but, being holo-
graph, was valid under the local State law. Its existence was not known
to anyone else. J. L. Chafiin died in 1921, and the earlier will was
proved. In June 1925 the second son, J. P. Chafiin, had vivid dreams
of his father, in one of which the latter appeared and said, 'You will
find the will in my overcoat pocket.' The overcoat was found. In its
lining was not the will but a paper referring to an old Bible. The will
was discovered between the pages of the Bible. (In this case also it is
uncertain whether the percipient was awake or asleep.)
In a series of articles on 'Remarkable Dreams',^ Dr W. H. C.
Tenhaeff includes a discussion of the 'solution' type, with
numerous examples. These are first-hand and recent, but con-
firmatory statements and fuller details would be useful in some
cases.
18. W. H. Mrs W. H. thought she had left her bicycle as usual in
a garage, but when she came to claim it, it could not be found. That
night she dreamed that she saw the machine standing in a yard of a
grocer's shop, and that on coming out on to the street she saw nearby
another shop which she had visited on the previous day. The next day
she went to the place, looked into the yard, and saw the bicycle. She
had left it standing in the street and forgotten about it, and it had been
put into the yard overnight. The shopkeeper brought it out for her, so
that she never saw the yard from inside as in the dream.
^ Proc, xxxiii. 2 Proc, xxxiii, 351. «
Proc, xxxvi, 517.
* Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie, X. .. . . . .,
1952] The Solution of Problems in Dreams 653
19. L.P.E. The solution of an inventor's problem was revealed by
the dream-figure of his mother.
20. J. V. M. A valuable ring was lost. J. v. M. feared it had been
stolen by a maid who had lately been dismissed. In a dream he heard
a voice saying : 'What you thought has not happened, and what has
happened is what you would never have thought. Be at ease ; the ring
is not stolen and will come back.' As a result of the dream, he felt
easier in his mind, and took no action in the matter. A few days later
the ring was found. His daughter had put it in one of the decorations
of a Christmas tree, and forgotten about it.
Since the publication of Myers's papers, a number of fresh cases
have been printed in the Journal. Of these the following are most
noteworthy :
21. Smith} At a church in Sydney, N.S.W., a hymn tune was sung
which Mr Smith had never heard before (although he had seen the
name of the tune in an old collection at his house in Aberdeen). He
was struck by the tune, and tried to learn it while it was being sung,
but forgot it soon afterwards. A month later he left for London. 'On
the passage home I often used to try to recall it, as it still haunted me,
but I could not do so, try as I might. One night while on the passage
home (the passage lasted 116 days from February 3rd, but I cannot
even approximately give the date of the night I refer to) I dreamt that
I was at the same church in Balmain, that the same hymn was sung to
the same tune and that I resolved that this time I should not forget it . . .
Just as it finished, I awoke with the tune ringing in my ears and I knew
it correctly.' He never afterwards forgot it.
In May of the same year a case is given which concerns two
sisters. One of them was puzzled as to whom a certain person
resembled ; the dream which gave the answer was dreamed by
the other sister, who had seen neither the person in question nor
the other person whom he resembled. Apart from occurring to
the wrong sister, the dream is of normal type.
The next case of interest is :
22. Blaikie? 'In April, 1892, I had given to me an old cross of very-
good old paste and good design, which I shortly afterwards wore, for
the first time, at the theatre. On reaching home in the evening I found
that I had dropped it or had it stolen, and went to bed mourning its loss.
'On falling asleep I dreamed what actually had happened—that I had
lost it on my way from the theatre—but then fancied that I found myself,
in broad daylight, in the drawing-room of the house in Place, W.,
where I was then staying, and which overlooked the front door. In
my dream I looked out of the window and saw, lying in the gutter
immediately in front of the door, my cross, and rushed downstairs and
into the street and picked it up.
^Journal, viii, 29. ^Journal, x, 30,
654 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jULY
'In the morning I had quite forgotten my dream, but in the afternoon
when I was having tea in the drawing-room with my (hostess), she
spoke of the cross I had lost and the unhkeHhood of my ever seeing it
again. I then remembered the dream, and told her about it.
'
"I went forward to the window", I said, "and looked out, and there
it was, lying in the gutter, close to the kerb."
'She laughed, and we both went to the window and looked out, and
just then the sun caught on something lying in the gutter, just at the
kerb.
'It was the old paste cross.' .
'
Miss Blaikie's account is corroborated by her hostess.
Several cases of bodies being found through dreams are on
record. In the following the 'solution' aspect is especially
noticeable :
23. Blunt} James Blunt, a coal-miner of New Lambton, Co.
Durham, and Police-constable Egleton, stationed in the same district,
were old friends. One Saturday night in January 1902 Egleton dis-
appeared. A search was organised over the whole district, and carried
on energetically for four days by parties which included thirty or forty
constables ; but it proved fruitless. Blunt also assisted in the search.
'He talked a lot about him, saying he wished he could be found.' In
the course of the search a certain stream running through Brecon Hill
Wood had been explored by Blunt and others. On Tljursday morning
Blunt told five people (who confirm the story) of a dream he had had
in the night. 'I dreamt that I saw the burn running through Brecon
Hill Wood, and in the stream by a stump of a tree B.C. Egleton was
lying with his head to the stump, and I saw him in the dream lying in
two feet of water.' He went to the spot at the first opportunity, later
in the day, and found the body at the place seen in the dream. There
was afterwards noticed a mark on the bank, which may have been made
by Egleton falling or throwing himself in. These facts came out at the
inquest, at which an open verdict was returned ; but Egleton had been
very depressed before his disappearance, and had had a breakdown in
health and family troubles as well.
Another 'lost body' case, Mme Clarinval's, can scarcely be
included here, as it is a daylight hallucination ; it is discussed later.
24. Wild.^ Miss Ida Wild lost a hammer. 'I hunted everywhere
likely for it, and had it constantly in mind.' Some weeks later, 'I
dreamt I was walking in the long rough grass near the beehives, and
saw my hammer, fine and bright, on the top of the grass.' The hammer
was found there, but entirely covered by grass which had to be cut
away to find it. It was not bright, but very rusty, and the haft sodden.
^Journal, x, 298-303. For some extra information bearing on this case I
am indebted to Mr D. B. Cameron of the King's College, Newcastle,
Psychical Research Society.
^Journal, xxii, 28.
1952] The Solution of Problems in Dreams 655
The case of Mrs X. [Journal, xxix, p. 272) is of the Squires
type ; a key lost by Mr X when out fishing was found by Mrs X
through a dream, although she had never been to the spot. Of
the same type is a case described by Major Giinther,^ Frau
Giinther being the loser and her daughter the dreamer. He gives
two other cases of lost articles recovered ; but the persons con-
cerned are professional mediums, and the present paper must limit
itself strictly to spontaneous cases.
These examples have been chosen from some ninety cases.
^
Doubtless a more thorough search would disclose many more, but
it is clear that dreams of 'solution' type are rarer in the literature
than telepathic or precognitive dreams of the ordinary kind, which
can be counted by the hundred. (In the present paper, both tele-
pathy and precognition will be taken as established.) However,
enough have been recorded to distinguish the type. Some prob-
lem is presented to the waking mind which it cannot answer. The
subject is very much concerned over his failure.^ This is expressly
stated in most cases ; in others, such as Chaffin's (17), it may be
presumed. Sometimes he dismisses the question from his mind,
and abandons the search ; in others, that he was not worrying
acutely at the time of the dream may be presumed from the simple
fact that he was asleep. In a dream the solution of the problem is
presented, sometimes by a direct vision, sometimes through the
mouth of a dream-figure. On waking the solution is tested and
found correct.
In contrast, the ordinary precognitive or telepathic dream arrives
out of a clear sky. In some examples (such as the Terriss murder,
quoted later) the dream may be the fulfilment of a subconscious
wish, but not the solution of a problem consciously brooded over.
It is this, rather than the action taken as a result of the dream,
which marks off the class. It is true that these dreams are almost
invariably, and other veridical dreams rather rarely, followed by
action* ; but this is simply because unless action was taken the
^ Zeitschrift fur metapsychische Forschung, December 1936.
^ They include most of the cases with dream-figures, and every well-
evidenced case which appears to be an exception to the generalisations
which follow. The cases not mentioned are mainly simple lost-article
dreams, or are insufficiently detailed or authenticated.
' One of Dr Tenhaeff's correspondents, who frequently solves problems
in sleep, says that the more he concentrates on the problem when awake
the more easily does he dream about it.
'The exceptions are St Monica (3) and J. v. M. (20), where inaction
was enjoined by the dream itself ; Yates (12), Hodgson (16), and possibly
Blaikie (22), where the article was found by chance ; and Smith (21),
where no action was necessary.
656 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
lost article would not be found, or the problem would not be
solved, and the dream would never be revealed as veridical at all.
There is an interesting group of cases which, though they
cannot be included with the 'solution' type, should not be left
unmentioned ;
they may be described as 'professional anxiety'
dreams. This group includes 'Father Brompton' and the dying
woman^ ; the coachman and the mare^ ; the surveyor and the
bridge^ ; the insurance official and the fire* ; and the biographer
and her subject.^ The information is in most cases acquired
through precognition, but the first case is possibly telepathic, and
the last probably retrocognitive. An interesting feature is the
large proportion of auditory dreams or hallucinations.*
Almost all these dreams, it is clear, are wish-fulfilments. The
one exception—Howe's (14)—is an anxiety dream, which is a wish-
fulfilment reversed. They diff^er from the majority of the class in
that the dream is not a substitute for the real-life event, but a
stepping-stone to it ; but this does not aff^ect the structure of the
dream itself. When the figure of some other person supplies the
information which solves the problem, it is to be presumed that
his appearance is a part of the wish : 'I wish F. were here to tell
me about this.' F. must therefore be a person to whom the subject
would naturally turn. He must be believed to be able and willing
to supply the information, and he must be known to the dreamer.
This does not exclude Hilprecht's priest, whose appearance would
be quite familiar to the Professor, or St Monica's 'beautiful young
man', the traditional divine messenger ; but it explains why the
^ Proc, xxxiii, 287. ^ Ibid., 138. ^ Proc, viii, 397.
* Ibid., 396. ^Journal, v, 253.
" The following story has no evidential value, having been handed
down through three generations, but on internal evidence appears
genuine. I take it from Dr C. Dickson's Life of Michael Dzuyer (p. 180).
It dates from about 1800, when Dwyer was being hunted through the
Wicklow mountains, with a price on his head. A year or two before,
McAlister, one of his followers, had saved his life at the cost of his own.
'One night as Dwyer had retired to a cave he had made in a double ditch
in Leitrim (Glen Imaal) and which was unknown to anyone except
McAlister and himself, McAlister's spirit appeared, called him and saved
his life, he said. Before he was long in, he lay down tired after his watch-
ful day and soon was in slumber, when to his great astonishment he was
awakened by a voice calling him. He sat up, listened for some time and
heard nothing ; but thinking he was only dreaming, lay down again in
silence to listen, whereupon he distinctly heard McAlister's voice calling
him in stem tones to "get up". He at once recognised the voice, leaped
up and peeped out just in time to find that he was almost surrounded by
redcoats . .
.' and succeeded in escaping. It should be added that
McAlister was the only Ulsterman in Dwyer's party, and his Northern
accent would be quite unmistakable. As a dream-figure he is obviously
highly appropriate. . . . : . .
..i-
1952] The Solution of Problems in Dreams 657
loser does not appear as F. in cases of the Squires type (13), why
Peterson (11) did not imagine the opposing counsel or his client
as giving him the clue to the missing evidence, and why Mrs
W. H. (18) did not see the grocer in her dream. In Howe's case
(14), similarly, the sheriff is part of the anxiety, and so comes in
more aptly than Chaffe senior or junior, either of whom, if he had
the information, might not be willing to give it. The sheriff, also,
would be a familiar figure to the Judge.
The deceased person is obviously the only possible dream-
figure in cases of the Marteville type (4), and he never fails to make
his appearance. That the pious Monica sees angels, and the free-
thinking Synesius sees none, needs no lengthy explanation. Two
cases, however, remain a little anomalous—A. v. S. (9) and L. P. E.
(19). The little girl's dead brother knew no more of the knife
than anyone else, and his entry into the dream seems inappropriate.
Similarly, there is no reason to suppose that the inventor's mother
knew anything of mechanics or chemistry. But both these are
persons to whom the dreamers were accustomed to turn in any
difficulty ; their use in the dream is inartistic, perhaps, but not
unnatural.^
The only case which cannot be brought under the formula T
wish F. were here to tell me' is F. R. C. P.'s (7). The landlord,
however, is not a dream-figure in the sense in which we have been
using the term. He is not the bringer of news, but is himself the
sought-for object. The message conveyed is : 'The landlord is
coming home late ;
you can meet him and get into the house.'
This is conveyed in the simplest possible way.
There are a number of cases in which the dreamer has no reason
to suppose that anyone can help him. In nearly all such cases the
dream is in the form of a direct vision. Sometimes, however, the
information is difficult to express in images. This difficulty is
surmounted very neatly in Peterson's case, in which he is himself
the dream-figure. In J. v. M.'s an impersonal voice is heard, and
the same device is used in another dream of Peterson's^ which
I have not quoted. This difficulty in direct presentation is,
^ The 'Devil's Sonata' dream of Tartini might be cited as an example
of an inappropriate dream-figure. However, the dream is not of 'solution'
type. Tartini was under no obligation to compose a sonata ; there was
no problem, and no anxiety. I am not therefore compelled to explain
the Devil. However, it may be of interest to note that Tartini was
destined by his parents for the Church, but expressed such a repugnance
to the idea that they were compelled to give it up. From an early age,
music and the Church must have been opposed to each other in Tartini's
mind ; that the Devil, the enemy of the Church, should appear as the
provider of music, is quite in accordance with the logic of dreams.
= Proc, viii, 395.
658 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
perhaps, a contributory cause of the use of imaginary figures like
Hilprecht's priest.
In studying spontaneous cases, the only form of experiment
possible is the construction of fictitious cases, illustrating or
contravening the rules derived from the real cases. If the passage
of time, or a more thorough examination of the literature, supplies
real cases corresponding to the first fictitious class, but not to the
second, these rules will be established more firmly ; if not, they
must be reconsidered. Thus, the conclusions arrived at above
may be summed up by saying that the following should not occur :
Fictitious Case I. D. is much concerned over a certain problem. In
a dream he sees F., a person quite unknown to him, or an acquaintance
whom he has no reason to associate with the problem ; this person
tells him the solution. D. wakes, tests the solution, and finds it correct.
It appears, then, that the conclusions of Augustine in the Milan
case^ are fully justified. The dream-figures are in all cases con-
structs of the dreamer, and have no relation to the objective
situation. The appearance of Chaffin senior to Chaffin junior (17)
does not prove survival ; the non-appearance of Davis to Squires
(13) does not disprove telepathy. The sole means of judging is
the information itself.
It is indeed remarkable that this information shows so little sign
of its origin. It will not be disputed that in most lost-article cases
the source of the dream is the revival of a forgotten memory.
That memory must be of the act of losing ;
yet this act itself hardly
ever appears in the dream. The following seems a very plausible
sequence :
Fictitious Case II. D. loses a valued article. He dreams of putting it
in a certain place. On waking he looks there and finds it.
Or, in the Marteville type :
Fictitious Case III. F. dies. D. cannot find his will. He dreams
of F. going to a secret drawer, etc., and putting the will there. It is
found there on waking.
Nothing exactly like either of these is known to me. There are a
few special cases discussed below ; but in general the dream con-
cerns itself with the finding, not the losing. Mrs Yates (12) does
not dream of putting the photographs in a drawer, but of taking
them out. Squires does not see the watch fall ; he sees it fallen.
Mrs Hodgson (16) does not dream of the box being hidden in the
cellar, but of the box being discovered ; and so on.
Here again the wish-fulfilment principle must be invoked.
The dreamer's thought is not 'I wish I knew how I lost the article',
1 And of Mr Tyrrell {Proc, xlviii, 81 ff.).
1952] The Solution of Problems in Dreams 659
or even, in most cases, 'I wish I knew where it is', but 'I wish I had
it now'. The dream, therefore, satisfies the wish most completely
by looking forward to the point of application of the information.
Peterson, for instance, sees himself making his point in court. It
is the same in anxiety dreams ; Howe's vision of the sheriff about
to sell the house is a long leap forward from the (erroneous)
information of Mr Chaffe's debt.
Miss Wild's case is an exception which, in the true sense, proves
the rule. She sees the hammer clean and bright, lying on top of
the grass, as it was when lost. But clearly it was no part of her
wish that the hammer should be rusty and sodden, and only
extricated with difficulty from the long grass which had grown
over it. Even in this case, it is to be noted, the action of losing the
article is not reproduced in the dream.
^
It is reproduced in Smith's case (21) ; but a hymn tune is no
ordinary lost article ; the moment of waking from the dream was
the moment of finding. Smith was not looking forward to any
special future occasion on which he was to sing the hymn, and he
had not been taught it by anyone who could serve as a dream-
figure. In the circumstances it is difficult to see what else the
dream could have done.
The same applies to the cashier's dream (6). This is not a lost-
article dream ; the missing amount had not been recorded any-
where, and the recollection of the event was the only way in which
the problem could be solved. This case is also interesting in
suggesting a possible unconscious motive for the forgetting—the
wish to be rid of an unpleasant and embarrassing scene. It may
be suggested that an unconscious motive is at work in some other
lost-article cases ; but in the majority the loss seems to have
occurred very naturally.
The dream which looks forward to the point of application of
the information provides favourable conditions for precognition ;
and precognitions are in fact found. The cases of Stuart (8),
Squires (13), Blaikie (22), Hodgson (16), W. H. (18) and
F. R. C. P. (7) are prima facie either clairvoyant or precognitive ;
precognition is possible in those of St Monica (3) and J. v. M. (20) ;
and the precognitive element in the Wilmot case (10) is inescapable.
The chief difficulty about precognition is, of course, the ap-
parent reversal of causation. The first serious attempt to solve
^ In one of Dreaming Joe's dreams the action of losing was reproduced,
but the case was denied by Joe himself and could not be confirmed. In
another, Joe dreamed of a thief putting a missing purse in a certain place,
but it was not found there, nor was the thief ever identified. This suggests
that with professional 'clairvoyants' (Joe was almost a professional) the
desire to impress the client may have its eflfect on the form of the vision.
66o Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
this problem was made by J. W. Dunne. ^ In Dunne's theory
there are an infinite number of Time dimensions, of which, how-
ever, only the first two need concern us here. His 'Time i' is
'ordinary' time ; an observer to whom this is Time sees a three-
dimensional world in which various events occur in succession.
But there is also a 'Time 2', and a corresponding 'Observer 2'.
To the latter. Observer I's three-dimensional field of view appears
as a moving section of a four-dimensional world. By concen-
trating his attention on Observer I's view, Observer 2 perceives
the three-dimensional aspect of things. If this attention is relaxed,
however, or if Observer i is not functioning—that is, in states of
abstraction or unconsciousness—Observer 2 reverts to his proper
four-dimensional view. He then sees Time i as an extra dimen-
sion of space, and all its length is equally present (though not
equally accessible or equally interesting) to him. He can thcis
perceive an event which is future to Observer i ; but to him it is
neither future nor an event, but a mere static configuration.
Observer I's impression that an event is happening is an illusion
caused by the 'present moment' which moves along Time i —an
illusion similar to that of a cinematograph. The only events which
Observer 2 sees as really happening are, first, the steady movement
of the 'present moment' along Time i, and, secondly, occasional
changes in the Time i 'future' due to intervention—of which more
must be said later.
It follows from the above that the Freudian 'unconscious', or
the 'subconscious' or 'subliminal mind' of other authors, which is
dominant in dreams or states of abstraction, must contain a large
element of Observer 2.
X
Fig. I
Professor C. D. Broad^ has also produced a theory of pre-
cognition using two Time dimensions. These are not, however,
connected by any law as in Dunne's theory. For illustrative
purposes they are conceived as being at right angles (Fig. 1).
' An Experiment with Time, 1927.
^ Knozvledge and Foreknou'ledge. Aristotelian Society, Supplementary
Vol. xvi, 1937.
1952] The Solution of Problems in Dreams 661
An event X which is after Y in Time i may therefore be before it
in Time 2.
Broad's theory is much less elaborate than Dunne's ; indeed it
is a mere suggestion, put forward in the most tentative manner.
It can be seen, however, that its solution of the problem of
reversed causation differs radically from Dunne's. Dunne asserts
that the supposed future event is really present, Broad that it may
be both past and future. It is thus theoretically possible in
Broad's theory, but not in Dunne's, for an event to be the cause
of its own cause. Broad's two times exist together ; an event
which is before another in Time i may be subsequent to it in
Time 2, and causation may operate in either Time dimension.
To any of Dunne's observers, however, there is only one real
Time, and all inferior times are dimensions of space. Observer 2
may see an apparent cause-and-effect sequence running along
Time i, but it is merely apparent, frozen as it were ;
events, to
him, happen in Time 2, and it is only in Time 2 that there can be
causes and effects.
X3 . Ys
L3 . ±3
P3
X, Y,
Pi
Fig. 2
It happens that one case in the present series raises this question
sharply. It is Wilmot's. The dream contains a precognition of a
future event—it is therefore presumably caused by that event ;
but the event itself—the finding of the money—is the result of
the dream! This appears to be an example of circular causation,
and hence tells strongly in favour of Broad's theory as against
Dunne's.
Dunne's theory, however, contains an important feature which
so far has been barely mentioned—the conception of 'interven-
tion'. Observer 2 is not merely a passive spectator. He can
intervene to alter the Time i future, and there are many cases on
record to suggest that he sometimes does so. Fig. 2 represents
such an intervention.
XY represents the subject's life, and P the 'present moment'.
X^Yj, X2Y2, etc., are states of the life which are successive in Time
2. The 'present moment' moves along XY, occupying the
successive positions P^, Pj, P3.
662 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
At the moment of Time 2 represented by the bottom hne,
Observer 2 looks along X^Y^ and observes the point Y^. The
result is, let us say, a dream about an aeroplane crash. As a result
of the dream he takes action—for instance, he cancels his intended
flight. This action results in an alteration of the Time i future,
including a lengthening of the subject's life as shown by X3Y3.
Here we have three events—the dream, the cancellation of the
flight, and the lengthening of the life^—which are linked in a causal
sequence. Now, starting from the latter end, the sequence can be
traced back m Time i without difficulty up to a certain point. The
lengthening of the fife is caused by the cancellation of the flight,
which is caused by the recollection of the dream. But this last
item has no causal ancestor in Time i. In that dimension it
appears to spring from nowhere. To trace the chain further we
must employ the outlook of Observer 2 ; we can then say that the
dream resulted from observation of Yj. (It may be remarked that
Yj, the event precognized, is not future to any observer ; for
Observer i will experience quite a different event when he comes
to the point in X3Y3 corresponding to Y^. No observer i?i the Dunne
series cafi foresee the real future. In particular, no observer can
foresee the results of his own intervention.)
If Observer 2 intervenes, therefore, the causal sequence must be
traced first in Time 2 and then in Time i . The moment of change
from one Time to the other is, presumably, the moment when the
dreamer wakes. He gets up, goes about his business, and the next
night goes to sleep again. But now the Time i length open to his
inspection is not X^Y^ but X3Y3 ; in other words he may now
precognize the events which will (in Time i) result from his recent
intervention. This may result in a new intervention, and so on
indefinitely ; the chain of cause and eff^ect zig-zags across the
diagram. But it cannot turn back, either in Time i or Time 2.
We may now return to the Wilmot case. Let us suppose that
Wilmot has a dream in which his memory of the losing of the
money is revived. This, just as much as a precognition, is the
work of Observer 2 ; the dream is derived from inspection of a
part of XY between X and P. He wakes up with the memory
of the dream. This, given his character and all other circum-
stances, determines that next day he will search for the money
and find it in the place dreamed of. In other words, the recollec-
tion of the dream is intervention, and alters the Time i future.
As he still lies in bed, the finding of the money has become part
of that future. There is therefore no reason why, if he goes to
sleep again, he should not have a precognitive dream of the find-
ing ; and this will be the case however short or partial the waking
may be. If now the second dream obliterates the memory of the
1952] The Solution of Problems in Dreams 663
first, it will make no difference, for the second dream contains the
same essential information as the first, plus some extra details
derived from precognition. The one-way sequence of causation
is thus preserved.
It remains to be seen how this hypothesis will apply to other
cases. It has already been noted that the act of losing the article
very seldom appears in the dream, although it must have been the
dream's starting-point. This missing link in the causal chain
must have existed somewhere, and will fit very neatly into the
hypothetical first dream. It may appear surprising that the first
dream is so completely forgotten ; but after all the remembering
of a dream, not its forgetting, is the unusual event, and in nearly
all cases the two dreams may be presumed to be so alike that they
would become fused in recollection. Secondly, the first dream
does sometimes leave a trace in memory. In the Wilmot case
itself, we are told that the dream was repeated. It is quite possible
that on its first occurrence it lacked the details about the money
rolling away. In Miss Blaikie's case (22) the whole mechanism
can be seen. The dream first refers to the losing, and then passes
to the act of finding. That the first part of the dream is preserved
on this occasion is, perhaps, due to the circumstance that Miss
Blaikie feared her ornament had been stolen. By re-enacting the
loss, the dream reassures her on this point. The message of the
dream is in fact in substance the same as J. v. M.'s, although so
differently expressed.
If this theory of the Wilmot case be accepted, it can be applied
also to the touches of apparent clairvoyance in other cases. Mrs
Stuart saw the stone lying under a fallen leaf, with dewdrops
sparkling in the sun—just as it was at the time of the dream, but
also just as it was when she found it a few minutes later. Squires
saw the watch among tall grass, 'the steel chain lying in a half-
circle'—a picture that could not have been derived from the mind
of Davis, the loser ; but Squires himself saw it so on the following
day. Mrs W. H. leaves her bicycle in the street, and finds it in a
yard ;
she dreams of it in the yard. F. R. C. P. finds the landlord
talking to a friend, just as he had seen him in the vision ; he did
not enquire, apparently, if the friend had been there at the time
of the vision some minutes earlier. Howe dreams, not of the
amount known to Chaffe, but of the amount plus interest, which
he did not find out till later. Blunt sees the body of Egleton as
nobody—including Egleton himself—had seen it at the time, but
as he himself saw it next day.
The precognized details may on this hypothesis be set aside, as
the dream-figures may be set aside, in the search for the source
of the dream. What remains is the bare minimum of information
664 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
necessary to cause action. How does this information find its way
into the dream? There are several possibiHties.
I. Chance. The hypothesis of chance coincidence has been
given very Httle attention in this connexion. It impHes that there
are many such dreams, and that the non-veridical ones are not
recorded. It is true that these would naturally be rather elusive.
If Peterson, for instance, after his Paul Revere ride, had not found
the missing evidence, it is pretty certain that he would not have
told the story to Myers or anyone else! But the probability of
finding the object by pure chance is so low in such cases as those
of Squires and Mrs Stuart that these cases would require to be
balanced by thousands of falsidical ones. It is exceedingly im-
probable that all these cases would have escaped the attention of
all the authorities who have considered the subject.
Moreover, since the publication of Die Traumdeiitung one does
not talk so lightly of random dreams. A dream impressive enough
to lead to action is almost certainly not random, whether veridical
or otherwise. If in such a dream a lost object is seen in some
place, there must be some association between the place and the
object. If there is a chance coincidence, it must be between two
such associations ; for instance a missing person may, in life, have
frequented a spot where his body is later discovered. In Blunt's
case, however, this does not seem very likely. Or the association
may be of the symbolic type ; the connexion between money and
dirt, noticed by Freud, may have led Wilmot's dreaming mind to
the consideration of mud-heaps ; but we have still to explain why
he dreamed of the one particular mud-heap which actually con-
tained the money, out of all the mud-heaps which he may have
seen. And what association other than real contiguity could exist
between Davis's watch and a particular clump of grass?
These considerations apply chiefly to dreams of the true
'solution' type, preceded by anxiety over a particular problem,
and followed by action. As regards wish-fulfilment and anxiety
dreams in general, it is undeniable that the great majority come
out of the gate of ivory. The St Monica type, in which the
dreamer's action does not cause the denouement, is quite easily
explicable on a chance basis. The event prophesied is, in each of
our two cases (3, 20), not very improbable. But even here the
hypothesis of chance coincidence would be greatly strengthened
if there were a large number of cases on record in which divine
messengers, or impressive voices heard in dreams, gave false
information.
II. Retrocognition} In most of the cases it is probable, or at
^ Following Myers, I use this term rather than 'hypermnesia', to mark
its similarity to precognition and its difference from ordinary memory.
1952] The Solution of Problems in Dreams 665
least possible, that the information was at one time in the
dreamer's possession, in which case its revival in the dream is
understandable. It is not necessary that he should have con-
sciously known it, for there is ample evidence that incidents
ignored by consciousness may be noted unconsciously. ^ This
explanation will not serve, however, for the dreams of St Monica,
J. v. M., Squires, Howe, Hodgson, Chaffin, and the vision of
F. R. C. P. ; and in the Marteville case it is unlikely.
HI. Precognition. There is no difficulty in accepting Mrs
Hodgson's dream as precognitive, and the same explanation is
applicable in any of the cases in which there is no intervention by
the dreamer :
J. v. M., St Monica, and Yates. The nine years'
interval between dream and event in St Monica's case is unusually
long, but intervals of twenty years and more are known. In
Blunt's dream (23) it must be borne in mind that the body of
Egleton would almost certainly have been found sooner or later,
even without the help of the dream. Precognition is thus a
possibility here ; but so is retrocognition ; and even a post mortem
telepathy from Egleton is not out of the question. In fact this case
runs the whole gamut of hypotheses, and it is best to follow the
jury's example and return an open verdict.
IV. Clairvoyance is a possible explanation in every lost-object
case. The form of the vision in such cases as Miss Wild's is no
argument against this, just as the form of Mrs Stuart's vision is no
argument in its favour. The objection to clairvoyance is that it
explains all cases, both those which occur and those which do not.
Consider the following :
Fictitious Case IV. A house is bombed, or a ship is wrecked, and a
valued possession is lost. The dreamer sees it among the ruins, or on
the seashore, in some place in which it would not have been discovered
without the aid of the dream.
The antecedent conditions here must have existed in many
cases ; but as far as my acquaintance with the literature goes, the
Of late there has been a tendency to use 'retrocognition' for the Versailles
and similar cases, in which the percipient seemingly experiences events
of a remote past. These events, however, are not part of the subject's
past. On the hypothesis that he is re-living the past of someone else, the
case is one of retrocognitive telepathy ;
otherwise, of retrocognitive
clairvoyance.
1 Secondary personalities of the 'Sally Beauchamp' type might be
described as the nearest possible approach to a conscious unconscious.
They often claim to be able to 'look out of the corner of the eyes' when
the primary personality is looking elsewhere. This has been very
interestingly described by 'B' of the BCA case, and verified by Morton
Prince in experiments with the same subject. {Journal of Abnormal
Psychology, iii and xiv.) .
666 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
dream has never resulted. To establish clairvoyance in such a
case, it must be shown (i) that no human eye saw the lost object
in the place in which it was found (this excludes retrocognition
and telepathy) ;
(ii) that the discovery would not have been made
except for the dream (this excludes precognition).^ Two cases in
the Journal come close to this ; neither is a dream case, and in
neither is the evidence conclusive. Mrs 'Watson'^ lost her wed-
ding ring, and was directed by automatic writing to look for it in a
sack of waste paper. It was found there, and was supposed to
have been carried in by rats—the ring was lost in 1944, and the
sack was filled with waste paper in 1945. It is unlikely that the
ring slipped in along with the paper ;
however, it is not at all
impossible.
The other case is from the Revue Spirite, April 1921.^ Mme
A. Clarinval's son Rene, an airman, was killed in 19 16, and buried
by the Germans. After the armistice Mme Clarinval searched for
the grave, but it could not be found. Some months later she had
a waking vision of her son, apparently alive, between two unknown
men. The one on the left seemed to be a German, and the other a
Russian. A further search was made three months later (not in
consequence of the vision), and it was established that the body
had been buried in the German cemetery as unknown. The
officer in charge refused to let the bodies be taken up for examina-
tion. 'But I was determined. We returned to Verdun . . . and
sought out the officer in command of the graves commission.
After a long discussion ... he yielded, and gave us authority to
make a search. Next day at 5 in the morning we were at the
cemetery ... By 12 o'clock 20 coffins had been opened without
any result. The men went to dinner, and my husband and I
stayed there, greatly depressed ; for we were beginning to lose
hope . . . Suddenly I thought of my visiofi ... I said, "Yes, we
shall find him ; he is between a Russian and a German. There
was a Russian in the cemetery at Dieppe ; let us look for him."
The men came back and resumed their work, whilst we ourselves
looked for the Russian ... At last, at 4 o'clock, I found the
Russian. To his left there was an unknown soldier, and to the left
of the unknown a German.' The unknown corpse was exhumed,
and proved to be that of Rene.
Camille Flammarion, who published the case, was perplexed by
the form of the vision, which does not correspond with the reality.
^ The possibility of such a case being precognitive is denied by Dunne's
theory, since no observer can foresee the result of his own intervention.
Their non-occurrence is therefore a point in favour of the theory.
^Journal, xxxiii, 230-9. .
» Quoted in ^OMJ-naZ XX, 244-9. . " ,
' r'
•
1952] The Solution of Problems in Dreams 667
After a comparison with others, and especially with the Wild case,
it can be seen that there is no difficuhy here. Mme Clarinval's
vision is the resuh of a very powerful wish. But that wish is not
for a grave, nor for a corpse—the mother wants her son.
The first criterion of a clairvoyant case is here well satisfied.
No human being knew that Rene Clarinval was buried between a
Russian and a German. The second, however, is more doubtful.
It seems clear that Mme Clarinval's actions were not affected by
the vision during the early part of the search. The question is,
if she had not recollected it, would she have given up the search in
despair? On the one hand, the cemetery contained more than
2,000 graves. We are not told how many of these were of un-
known soldiers-—an important point—but there may have been
several hundred. Without the vision, the search would have
taken some days, and possibly weeks. On the other hand, we
must consider the intense determination of Mme Clarinval, which
broke down bureaucratic opposition, and sustained her through
the gruesome examination of dozens of corpses. On the whole, it
seems likely that even without the vision she would have persisted
in her search, at least for some time. It is therefore possible that
she would have achieved her object without the help of the vision ;
the latter, consequently, may be precognitive.
I should add that both these cases are ascribed to intervention
by spirits. There is no need to discuss this hypothesis, however,
because, as Mr Hubert Wales pointed out in the Clarinval case,^
the dead persons knew no more of the facts than anyone else, and
could only have acquired them through clairvoyance. This is
contrary to the principle of the economy of h^^potheses ; if clair-
voyance is a fact at all, there is no reason to suppose that a dead
person is more clairvoyant than a living person. The sole basis
for the spiritist theory is the form in which the information is
conveyed ; and this form, it has been shown, is moulded to suit
the wishes of the percipient.
V. Telepathy. If clairvoyance is rejected, Squires's dream must
be considered as telepathic ;
and, if we include post-morten tele-
pathy, Chaffin's also. Whatever is said about Squires will apply
also to the other cases of the same type, and (although no certainty
can now be reached) the Marteville and Milan cases may be parallel
to Chaffin's. Others in which the telepathic explanation must be
considered are Howe, F. R. C. P., and J. v. M.
It has already been suggested by several writers^ that telepathy
is from subconscious to subconscious. This agrees with Dunne's
view^, according to which, if A is the agent and P the percipient,
^Journal, xx, 347. - For instance, A. Glardon, Journal, ix, 9.
^ Note on telepathy in The New Immortality (1938).
668 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
the information is passed from Ai to A2, from A2 to P2, and
finally from P2 to Pi. We may therefore expect to find, on the
one hand, four-dimensional effects—precognition or retrocogni-
tion ; and on the other hand, evidence of subconscious activity
on the part of agent and percipient.
Among the 'solution' dreams there are no cases of precognitive
telepathy, which is not surprising, as will be seen if an attempt is
made to devise a fictitious case. Retrocognitive cases, however,
are comparatively common. They may be expressed diagramma-
tically as in Fig. 3.
BD represents a period of the agent's life, and CE the corre-
sponding period in that of the percipient. At B the information
becomes known (consciously or otherwise) to the agent ; at E it
appears in the consciousness of the percipient. Discussion of such
cases^ has hitherto turned largely on the question whether the tele-
pathic message followed the path BCE, implying a latent period
B X D
i I i
C E
Fig. 3 i
; ,
.
in the percipient's mind, or the path BDE. In the Chaffin case
the agent dies at the point X, and the BDE path therefore implies
the hypothesis of survival. But if it is conceded that both parties
to the telepathy perceive four-dimensionally, then the time in
which the telepathy occurs is Time 2, and the discussion loses its
point. To ask whether the communication was sent before or
after Chaffin's death is meaningless, since the death is not an event
in Time 2 ; one might as well ask whether Euston station happens
before or after six o'clock. There is, of course, a sense in which
the terminus is an event to a railway passenger ; but the ending of
his career as a passenger does not affect his existence as a human
being ;
similarly, the arrival of Chaffin i at the end of his journey
does not imply the extinction of Chaffin 2. In the same way, the
idea of a 'latent period' refers to Time i, and has no application
to Time 2.
Turning to the question of subconscious activity, we find that
there is no difficulty at the percipient's end. In every case he
experiences a dream or a hallucination, which is unquestionable
evidence of such activity. The agent's part must be examined in
^
e.g. Proc, xl and xlvi, 'Is Proof of Survival Possible?'
1952] The Solution of Problems in Dreams 669
more detail. In the Squires type, the information was never known
to the conscious mind of the agent ; if these cases are telepathic
at all this information must have been present subconsciously. In
the Marteville type the information was consciously known to the
agent before his death, and in each case he had the opportunity to
pass it on to the percipient by normal means. Why did he not do
so? Either he forgot, or he wished to conceal it. M. de
Marteville, a methodical man of business, would not have left a
receipt for a large amount lying out of its proper place unless he
had forgotten or lost it. Chaffin's is a case of concealment, and
here a curious internal struggle may be observed. 'Chaffin A'
draws up a will ; 'Chaffin B' makes another contradicting the first.
'A' contrives that the later will is unwitnessed, and hides it away;
'B' writes out a clue to the hiding-place ; 'A' conceals the clue.
There is ample evidence here of a suppressed wish, which may
easily have sunk into the subconscious.^
In the remaining two cases the identity of the agent is unknown.
F. R. C. P.'s is put down to the landlord ; but this gentleman
possesses no qualifications for the part beyond the fact that he
knew of his own intention to return late. There is another person
in the case who was in a good position to know this, and also to
know the doctor's problem ; who was vitally interested, and who
can easily be supposed to have a repressed desire to communicate
the information—the delirious patient, struggling against her
craving.
In Howe's case there are three possible agents—the two Chaffes
and R. M., the creditor. The last-named was well known to
Judge Howe, but we have no details of their acquaintanceship ; of
Chaffe senior we know only that he was dead. In connexion with
Chaffe junior, however, we have on important point. He had sold
the Judge a house. What price did he get for it? This question,
irrelevant as it may appear, is perhaps the key to the problem.
Let us suppose that the price was rather low. This explains, on
Howe's side, the suppressed feeling that there must be a snag
somewhere, which appears in the form of an anxiety dream. But
what of Chaffe? He knows that there are no snags. Howe has a
good bargain—too good a bargain. The old debt has been paid
off—but suppose Howe thought it had not been paid off?
It will be objected that the train of thought I attribute to Chaffe
is childishly spiteful. Such ideas would certainly find no place in
* What was the 'particular reason' which made Mr R—d's father
employ a diflferent lawyer for his purchase of the title-deeds? Why did
Hennings's clergyman put the receipt in a secret drawer? There is some-
thing decidedly Chaflfinesque about such behaviour, the reason for which,
unfortunately, we shall never know.
670 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jULY
his conscious mind ; but they are quite in keeping with the ways
of thinking of the subconscious ; and the combination of para-
normal powers with a childish mentality is encountered in many
departments of psychical research.
In this and the preceding case the explanations have been
largely speculative, but this does not affect the chief point, which
is that in no case do we find on the part of the agent both conscious
knowledge and a conscious desire to communicate it. The
obstacle to communication is always psychological, never merely
physical.
It may be concluded, then, that in the great majority of cases
the essential information is derived from retrocognition, telepathy,
or precognition. Chance coincidence is possible in the St Monica
type, but clairvoyance is an unnecessary hypothesis,^ and the idea
of a spirit message as usually conceived is inapplicable.
I have now surveyed all the various types of 'solution' dream,
with the exception of that which at first sight seems the easiest to
explain—the purely intellectual problem, such as those of
Lamberton and Hilprecht. In the cases hitherto discussed, the
dreaming mind has been called upon for a momentary effort of
metrocognition, telepathy, or precognition. This is well within its
capacity, as shown by many other cases ; but sustained logical
thinking is quite another matter.
I do not deny that reasoning takes place in dreams ; but a
distinction, not hitherto important, must now be drawn between
the part of the mind that composes the dream—the 'dramatist'
—
and the part that watches the story as it unfolds—the 'spectator'.^
The distinction is clear in most dreams ; a specially obvious case
is that of dreams with surprise endings, as Stevenson' and
Greenwood^ have observed. The difference of character between
these entities is often very striking, as in a dream of Havelock
Ellis's^ ;
'. . . I dreamed that I was in a drawing-room and saw a
beautiful and attractive woman with an unusually low evening
dress entirely revealing the breasts ;
then, between the breasts,
three additional nipples appeared, and I realised in my dream that
here was a case of supernumerary breasts of sufficient scientific
interest to be carefully examined later on ; and then, as I gazed,
I saw a number of little fleshy nipple-like protuberances on the
^ There is of course, much evidence of clairvoyance in other situations :
for instance, some of the Duke University experiments.
^ In Dunne's terminology the 'dramatist' is Observer 2 and the
'spectator' Observer 3.
^ Essay on Dreams in Across the Plains, 1909.
* Imagination in Dreams, 1894. ^ The Woria or Dreams, 191 1.
1952] The Solution of Problems in Dreams 671
body, and thereupon I realised that I was really looking at a case
of the rare skin disease termed tnollusciim fibrosum.' Here the
erotic propensity and the rapid, illogical transitions of the
'dramatist' are in strong contrast with the cool, detached, scientific
attitude of the 'spectator'.
The 'spectator' reasons well, but cannot carry on a long train
of thought because the 'facts' he has to go on—the dream images
—
are perpetually changing. The 'dramatist's' logic, where it can be
recovered, is of a most primitive type. The very structure of a
dream is based on the 'undistributed middle'. Thus, the reasoning
behind Freud's dream of 'Uncle Joseph'^ is (in part) as follows :
(i) N. has been found not guilty of a crime, therefore N. is a
criminal, (ii) My uncle Joseph was a criminal, (iii) Therefore
N. is my uncle.
A poetic metaphor, it may be remarked, is also an undistributed
middle ; 'There is a garden in her face' is much the same sort of
thing as 'N. is my uncle'. There is evidence of artistic ability in
dreams—consider, in these very cases, the appropriateness of the
Assyrian priest, and the economy of the hallucinatory diagram on
the real blackboard—but not of sustained reasoning.
One would expect, then, that in 'solution' dreams only the
starting-point would be provided by the 'dramatist'—that, for
instance, in Lamberton's case (15) the dream-image would be a
combination of the blackboard and the algebraical form of the
problem ; that the 'spectator' would then realize that the attack
could be made along these lines ; that the dreamer would wake
with this idea, and proceed, in his waking hours, to the working-
out. This does not happen. The dreamer is presented with a fait
accompli, apparently the unaided work of the 'dramatist', and his
waking task is merely to check the result.
But, if we leave aside these dreams, and a few other special
types such as the battle-dream, we have an overwhelming mass of
evidence as to the character and capacities of the 'dramatist'. It is
naive, childish, changeable, following associations of form rather
than of idea, a lover of the obscene, erotic, coprolalic, violent, a
phantast, sometimes nearly a poet, sometimes almost a maniac
—
and this even in the most chaste and the most intellectual of man-
kind. We are now asked to believe that this same entity, in
Lamberton's case, set itself soberly to the task of drawing tangents,
dropping perpendiculars, and the detailed working-out of a prob-
lem in geometry ; and in Hilprecht's, to the laborious deciphering
of an Assyrian inscription.
In this dilemma it may be helpful to refer to the 'lost-article'
cases. It was found that the article was frequently seen in the
^ The Interpretation of Dreams, 6th English edition, p. 143.
672 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
dream as at the time of finding, not that of losing. This could be
accounted for as to the motive by wish-fulfilment, and as to the
means by precognition. In the cases now being considered, we
have an analogous effect, and the same motive ;
may not the means,
too, be the same?
This may appear far-fetched. But if Lamberton, after solving
his probletn, had had a dream vision of the completed figure ; or if
Hilprecht had dreamed of the Assyrian priest on the ftext night, no
one would have thought it strange. The remarkable thing about
these dreams is their displacement in time. But this is the very
definition of a precognitive dream.
If it be asked : when was the detailed work on the problem
carried out? the answer is that it was done on the day after the
dream. The case is in fact parallel to Wilmot's. The dreaming
mind, by bringing together elements which the waking mind had
failed to connect, gave the essential 'flash of inspiration' which
made the solution possible ; the solution itself thus became a
fixed point in the future, and this reacted on the dream, giving it its
final form. But the interaction of dream and event did not stop
here, for the working-out itself, owing to the interposition of the
dream, became much less laborious, and was in fact reduced to a
mere process of checking.
The motivation of the 'solution' dream is straightforward.
The conscious and subconscious mind are here working in co-
operation, and not, as so often, in opposition. The subject is
concerned over his problem. He brings all his conscious faculties
to bear on it, but without success. After a while he gives it up
and 'puts it out of his mind'. The problem is thus handed over
to the subliminal mind ; and it exerts its very different faculties
—
including retrocognition, precognition, and telepathy.
When playing tennis, you lose a ball. After much search you
give it up, get another and go on with the game. Your dog mean-
while has been watching ; and some time later, when you have
forgotten all about it, he comes frisking up with the lost ball in his
mouth—having smelt it out.
The subliminal mind, too, must handle its material in its own
way. It dramatises, symbolises, condenses, and distorts just as it
does with any other waking experience. Sometimes it comes up
(wagging its tail, as it were) with something quite inappropriate.
Take the Howe case ; the conscious mind asks anxiously, 'Are
there any unsettled claims on this property?' The dreaming mind
responds by producing a claim that has been settled some time
ago. Another example (though not a 'solution' dream) is the well-
known Terriss case. Mr Lane, a subordinate actor, dreamed of
the murder of Terriss, the star, the night before it happened.
I952J The Solution of Problems in Dreams 673
Lane was Terriss's understudy. He must therefore, like all under-
studies, have been longing for his principal to fall ill, so that he
could have a chance of making a name for himself. Probably he
tried to repress these longings. In sleep, however, the dreaming
mind set off in search of such a situation, and came back with the
nearest it could find—Terriss's approaching murder. This, how-
ever, was not at all what Lane wanted, as of course the theatre was
closed and did not re-open until a new star had been engaged.
The 'solution' dream may be classed among a series of mental
processes which have the common feature that the attention is first
concentrated and then relaxed. The simplest case—cited by
William James^—is the everyday one in which a forgotten word
or name, for which one racks one's brains in vain, comes back 'of
its own accord' some time later. From this we may pass to the
solution of puzzles, and from them to scientific discovery and
invention ; in each of these the same sequence of mental events is
found. Artistic inspiration is somewhat different, but may still be
brought under the same formula. When Wordsworth saw the
daffodils, his senses were keenly stimulated ; his attention was
directed strongly outwards. Later, lying on his couch 'in vacant
or in pensive mood', the image recurred spontaneously, bringing
with it the beginnings of a poem.
Finally, the most striking phenomenon of this class is un-
doubtedly religious conversion. The analogy between sudden
conversion and the 'solution' dream is close. We have first a
period of mental distress, often very severe and prolonged ;
during
this time the problems of sin and salvation are unceasingly brooded
over. Then there often intervenes a period of tranquillity during
which the problem is put aside ;
finally, in a sudden uprush of
subliminal energy, often accompanied by hallucinatory visions
and voices, the answer is found. Whether, on such occasions, any
objective information is brought up, is a question which can
scarcely be discussed here. However this may be, the subject's
problem is solved.
* Varieties of Religious Experience, 1902, p. 205.
674 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jULY
WATER DIVINING •
, m;
Summary of an Exchange of Views between
P. A. Ongley and T. C. Maby
We give below a precis of articles by P. A. Ongley and J. C.
Maby which appeared in the Journal of the British Waterworks
Association (Vol. xxxi, August 1949, Vol. xxxii, April, June,
October 1950).
P. A. Ongley, M.Sc, is a New Zealand research chemist.
J. C, Maby, B.Sc, is a full-time water diviner who uses instru-
mental methods.
The first article 'Divining in New Zealand' is from Ongley's
pen. He begins by quoting an opinion of Ellis in 1917 that
dowsing had been thoroughly discredited. He then quotes the
1920 figures of the New South Wales Commission for Water
Conservation and Irrigation :
; ; i,!, ;r.,,.[
1. Serviceable bores giving more
than loo gals, per hour
2. Serviceable bores giving less
than 100 gals, per hour
3. Unserviceable bores
4. Absolute failures
Totals
DIVINED NOT DIVINED
'No. sunk % No. sunk %
1,294 70-4 1,516 83-9
185 lO-I 96 5-3
87 4-8 61 3-4
269 147 133 7-4
1,835 100 1,806 100
In 1947 a well-borer was found negligent in that he did not
take a diviner with him when inspecting a proposed well site. To
condemn divining on inadequate evidence would be unfair. It is
almost impossible to get comparative figures for the success of
diviners and non-diviners in selecting well sites.
It is often claimed that where well A (undivined) went dry,
well B (divined nearby) was successful. Ongley gives a diagram
to show a possible explanation in terms of geology. Successful
water divining is often due to common sense. Other claims
depend on half-truths and deliberate untruths on the part of
diviners ; an example is given of each.
Ongley's Experiments. Seventy-five New Zealand diviners were
tested. They included clergymen, ex-nurses, motor-mechanics,
mill-hands, farmers, etc. Ten were women. In all tests care was
taken to test only what the diviner claimed to do. Rigorous
control experiments were done to make sure : that (a) there were
no 'interfering rays' ;
(b) containers etc. did not cut off 'divinable
1952] . . Water Divining 675
rays' ;
(c) there was enough material to be divined ;
(d) 'reminis-
cences' (divinable traces allegedly left behind when a substance is
moved) could not account for wrong results.
Sixty diviners were divining for water, the remaining fifteen
for miscellaneous substances. Some claimed to find only moving
water, the rest to find water anywhere.
The first test was to see how accurately the diviner could locate
the edge of an already divined stream on repetition. If his eyes
were open the diviner always 'found' his 'stream' at the same
place, but blindfold he would be up to ten feet out. In control
tests blindfold normal subjects did rather better than the dowsers
in locating a predetermined mark.
Four diviners were tested to see if they would declare pegs in the
ground already dubbed by them as 'wet' or 'dry', to be in the same
state on repeat attempts. Observed :
113 right in 210 trials
(expected 105).
Ongley quotes instances of diviners contradicting each other in
reporting streams crossing a given line. Diviners who could 'find'
only running water were asked to tell whether a mains supply was
on or off. Eight diviners scored 80 out of 170 (expected 85).
Those who could only find static water were asked to tell water
from an organic liquid or to say whether a bottle was full or
empty. The 7 diviners so tested scored 116 out of 210 (expected
105). All the dowsers were badly astray about depth of water.
Examples of dowsing for miscellaneous objects are given. The
results are described as 'ludicrous'.
'Although, unfortunately it has not been possible to test every
diviner on all his claims, nevertheless each has conclusively been
proved totally unreliable.' Digging wells on divined sites is im-
practicable and not as decisive as the results of so-called artificial
tests, in defence of which may be noted that (i) diviners were
asked to suggest tests ; (2) in many cases, e.g. in identifying
metals, these tests had been used by diviners themselves ; (3)
careful tests were always done to see that the tests were both fair
to the diviner and foolproof ; (4) one diviner said, 'Your tests are
perfectly fair. Until I tried I would have bet ^5 to a penny I
would have been successful.'
Ongley also defends the blindfold tests. He concludes his
article with a discussion of the mechanism of movement of the
diviner's rod, and applies a mathematical treatment to the problem.
He concludes that the bending of the rod is due to the unnatural
position of the hands producing a torsional couple on it in a
vertical plane.
Summarising, Ongley maintains that 75 diviners would have
included some, at least, of the reliable diviners had any existed.
676 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
Secondly, '. . . the nuisance value and the menace of dowsing is
not sufficiently realised. A water or mineral witcher can cause an
awful waste of private and public money. The medical witcher
can cause a waste of human life.'
Maby in his reply complains '. . . Ongley shows no sign of
having properly examined the very large body of positive instru-
mental and physiological data, or the excellent records of a few
accredited dowsers, before drawing dogmatic conclusions.'
Ongley is prejudiced ; his intentions are sincere but misguided.
Maby accepts his results, '. . . so far as they go, at their face value.
But the matter does not end there, since a vast body of evidence
by numerous competent engineers, physicists, physiologists and
others has securely established the basic facts of radiesthesia and
dowsing (excluding interfering psychological factors) in recent
years, despite the negative results of Ongley, Macfayden and one
or two other sceptics.'
Neuro-muscular reflexes to living organisms etc. can be demon-
strated in the laboratory (Maby refers to Tromp's Psychical
Physics and to Maby and Franklin's Physics of the Divining Rod),
yet 'the practical application of dowsing reflexes in accurate
surveys and analyses is problematical'.
'There have never been more than a few tolerably expert, self-
critical, reliable diviners in any one country.' Maby agrees with
Ongley that enthusiastic amateurs have a high nuisance value.
This does not disprove true dowsing, cf. the work of Tromp,
Pericas, De Vita, Von Pohl, Dannert, Regnault, Jemma, Gorceix,
Chicca, Creyke, Budgett, Turenne, Maby, Franklin, and others ;
also the commercial success over years of Pericas, De Vita,
Creyke, Franklin, and Maby.
There is nothing supernormal about genuine divining. [Maby
belongs to the school of thought which holds that dowsing is
solely physico-physiological and not psychic] Modern dowsing
has shown that there are many complicating physical factors to
contend with : 'Hence the frequent errors and misinterpretations
of quite objective physical effects by both dowsers and instruments
used.' Few dowsers realize these sources of error. Examination
of a mixed bag of dowsers and sites is useless. Genuine successes
will be lost in a 'jungle of guesswork, auto-suggestion and chance
coincidence ... In any case, geological conditions should be taken
into account . . . one must be sure that : (a) a really competent
dowser is employed ;
(b) he works under fair and proper condi-
tions, free from geophysical, meteorological, physiological and
even psychological sources of interference . .
.'
In conclusion Maby says Ongley has shown that New Zealand
1952] Water Divining 677
dowsers have no commercial value. He cannot accept that all
dowsing is unreliable as the reverse has been proved many times.
Dowsers should be more cautious and self-critical and follow the
precepts of Tromp, Franklin, and Maby. The general public
should be more objective in its approach, scientists and engineers
less prejudiced.
In his second article Ongley replies that in fact he is quite
familiar with the classical literature on dowsing, and with Maby's
book and papers. He repeats his contention that many of the
'excellent records' of dowsers are due to half-truths and untruths.
Ongley does not agree that he only tested duds, contending that he
tested all comers ;
among the 75 there should surely have been
some of ability. All care was taken to see that no diviner attempted
anything beyond his alleged powers and that all tests were both
fair and foolproof.
In a six-page paper he had no room for detailed results. These
are described more fully in the New Zealand Journal of Science
and Technology, 1949, 30B, pp. 38-54. Ongley concludes with a
challenge : T am willing to go anywhere to meet up to say half-a-
dozen diviners in the field on the following conditions : (i) I am
able to come from and return to Glasgow within the weekend ;
(ii) Before we start trials we agree on what we are going to try
to do . . . (iii) [not relevant to this precis] ;
(iv) If the diviners
are unable to substantiate their claims, I would expect a refund of
travelling expenses.'
Maby, in his second article, says Ongley is clearly fixed in his
views though otherwise fair ; he again recommends studying the
literature, watching a good commercial dowser at work, and asking
for his records of a typical year's working, e.g. some of Maby's
own results which he gave in the Journal of the British Society of
Dowsers for March, 1949.
In fairly homogeneous strata, average weather, open rural
country, and absence of thick clay or shale beds, depths can often
be predicted to one per cent and yields to ten per cent. The
reverse conditions may lead to serious errors. There is no
question of '. . . "clairvoyant perception", but merely a straight-
forward electrical and geophysical routine (incorporating both the
divining rod and a few simple electromagnetic accessories) as
roughly described in The Physics of tlie Divining Rod' . But errors
arise readily from complicating physical and even psychological
factors.
Ongley assumes undue authority because he is a chemist, not a
physiologist or geophysicist or electronic engineer. Many very
678 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [july
eminent physicists, physiologists, doctors, and engineers have
already agreed to both the main facts and also some of the tentative
explanations of dowsing.
Moreover, tests of the type Ongley carried out require both a
special technique and a very considerable knowledge of human
psychology. Sceptics or hostile investigators invariably cause
failure because of the psycho-radiant output of short waves from
their bodies which can be picked up by dowsers and by certain
new electro-mechanical detectors. Perhaps Ongley is an inhibitor.
Maby is unable to accept Ongley's challenge because (i) 'there
are too many . . . almost threatening conditions attached' ;
(ii) he
and other experts are too busy ; and (iii) there is ample positive
evidence on record. Anyhow, what would be the use of convincing
Ongley, whose verdict would not be likely to result in universal
acceptance?
The exchange of views concludes with a rejoinder from Ongley,
who claims that, Hke many others before him, he has investigated
dowsing as fully as the diviners would allow him. 'there is not a
shred of unequivocal evidence in favour of divining ... In contrast
to the formidable literature that has accumulated against divining
the only reputable literature that might possibly be interpreted as
favourable to the art is the paper of Barrett who, after meandering
indecisively for 250 pages, concludes by saying more or less that
he does not know what to think. That Maby needs to rely on this
50-year-old paper as his mainstay is in itself sufficient condemna-
tion.'
Ongley quotes Barrett in support of his views that a dowser s
own records cannot be relied upon. The 'eminent physicists,
physiologists, doctors and engineers' supporting dowsing exist
only in Maby's imagination. If they do exist it proves nothing.
'In science, what count are not authority, but facts, and the logic
of the conclusions drawn from these.' Ongley says that although
a chemist, he has a working knowledge of physics, biology,
physiology, and statistics, and has had the assistance of expert
geologists, physicists, medical men, farmers, and well-borers. As
an ex-teacher he probably knows all that is needed about setting
examinations and handling examinees. Maby's excuses for not
accepting his challenge are so farcical as not to need rebuttal.
Evidence for dowsing should not comprise statements of prowess,
but actual results in foolproof tests in the presence of impartial
observers. If Maby and the dowsers are unwilling to supply the
evidence one can only assume they cannot.
r
1952] Reviews 679
REVIEWS
Homo Faber : A Study of Man's Mental Evolution. By G. N. M.
Tyrrell. London, Methuen, 1951. viii, 205 pp. 15s.
Mr Tyrrell here defends and extols the fundamental importance
to modern man of a broad comprehensive non-specialist approach
to the problem of his own nature and place in the universe.
Science, he believes, represents progressive specialization in tech-
niques for the control of the material world, with a resulting mast-
ery of immediate reality and an increasingly hopeless removal from
the apprehension of ultimate reality.
The philosophical tools employed in this analysis are derived
:
largely from Bergson and from Eddington. It is Bergson's Homo
Faber in the Creative Evolution, with a mind structured by the
adaptive necessity to cope with the physical world, who supplies
the title ; and who also supplies much of the groundwork for the
description of a practical mind working, in geometrical and mech-
anical terms, to master the practical obstacles which material
Nature presents. It is Eddington's brilliant description of the
scientists' dilemma (in the Philosophy of Physical Science) that
guides Mr Tyrrell through the epistemological quicksands of
modern positivism. From Bergson we learn that our minds were
evolved to act, not to grasp ultimate realities ; and from Eddington
we learn (if Kant had not already persuaded us) that the objective
and the mathematical take on a certain form and present a certain
solid facade of unquestionable truth because we have in the first
place determined, by the very structure of our minds, what
manner of things there are in the world. Truths which belong to
this objective system are 'convergent', and can be brought into
more and more refined formulation ; those which transcend it lead
to 'divergent' difficulties, out of range of Homo Faber's sight,
which 'paralyse the mind and dishearten it' (p. 58).
In the light of this analysis, physical science, biological science,
and psychology can all win tactical success against immediate local
objectives, and philosophy can achieve rationalistic successes
through improved clarification of terms ; but all specializations
lead us away from the intuitive grasp of our own natures and of the
cosmos to which we belong. Specialization actually tends, Mr
Tyrrell believes, to disturb our capacity for self-understanding
and self-fulfilment.
In reading these earnest arguments from a man of such highly
specialized and such brilliantly creative analytic powers, the
reviewer confesses to a considerable bewilderment. Mr Tyrrell's
ingenious experiments in paranormal perception exemplify all the
characteristics of the astute planner and controller of the conditions
68o Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
under which a fact has to be observed if it is to be known to exist ;
all of Homo Faber's adaptive resourcefulness was poured into
them. It is not true that he concerned himself as scientist only
with the external and objective phases of his subject's mind ; he
was just as much a specialist when he was considering subjective
as he was in considering objective aspects of his problem. He is
the same Mr Tyrrell who gave us the magnificent study Appari-
tions, involving a highly disciplined and highly specialized study
of very complex and bewildering psychological phenomena, in-
cluding the analysis of unconscious dynamics and interpersonal
interactions. Is it just possible that Mr Tyrrell in the present
volume is not really attacking the specialist at all, but the dogmatic
materialist who uses the sciences as weapons in his ideological
battle?
Perhaps this short volume is not the place for me to hope for an
answer to my difficulties, but I am also worried by the lack of
definition of two terms which are central in the present effort :
instinct and intuition. Throughout the book the innate pre-
disposition to observe and to think in a given manner (a predisposi-
tion to which traditionally the term 'intuition' has sometimes been
applied) is referred to as an instinct ; we even learn that those who
uncritically hold to such an instinct 'will go on holding it, just as
birds will go on building nests and rabbits will go on digging
holes' (p. 173). On the other hand the term intuition is applied
to a process transcending the sensory processes (and apparently
also the ordinary rational operations) ; it is compared with religious
and at times with creative activities in such a way as to suggest
that these are vehicles by which it is carried ; it is said to carry us
to a kind of self-understanding which will free us from the
specialist's errors ; but it remains undefined. Light on the
process is, despite all this, shed in some degree by reference to
Indian mysticism ; and I must confess that Mr Tyrrell has done
much to convince me that we need far more competent and
thorough studies of Indian practices than we have, by specialists
who are themselves in the thick of the phenomena, deeply sym-
pathetic and capable of identifying with the adepts, and also
equipped with tools for careful observation and analysis. I am
sure that if I could talk with Mr Tyrrell he would agree. It is
surely not the specialist that he decries, but the specialist who
specialises before he exposes himself to the ABCs of human
nature, in which always much of the non-geometrical is found.
The trouble with the reviewer is very likely the fact that he is a
sort of a specialist. His own bias is to think that Mr Tyrrell
really believes in organized specialized science just as much as he
himself does, and that time will bring him back to another series of
1952] Reviews 681
brilliant contributions to psychical research, in the best tradition
of science, with all the appurtenances of Homo Faber's analytic
mind and all the humanity of one who can see deeply into The
Personality of Ma?i. Let Mr Tyrrell, and all good psychical
researchers, go on attacking the stupid and narrow specialists, but
outspecialise them all in the technical competence of their
observation and their analyses!
Gardner Murphy
New Approaches to Dream Interpretation. By Nandor
Fodor. New York, Citadel Press, 1 95 1, xvi, 363 pp. $5.00
Dr Nandor Fodor was at one time a well-known figure in the
field of psychical research—though, so far as the present reviewer
is aware, he was never actively connected with the S.P.R. In
more recent years he has turned to psycho-analysis, and he can
now speak of 'my psychical research days' as being of the past.
Nevertheless his interest in what might be called borderline
phenomena has persisted, and in the new field has manifested
Itself in a considerable preoccupation with some of the more
mysterious problems which present themselves to the psycho-
analyst, so that he has to some extent constituted himself a liaison
officer, calling attention on the one hand to the possible importance
to the psycho-analyst of certain recognized problems in para-
psychology and on the other to the interest which some of the
more curious phenomena revealed by psycho-analysis might quite
naturally present to the student of psychical research.
As regards the first of these he justifiably reminds psycho-
analysts that (with a very few exceptions) they have not followed
up Freud's own suggestion that psycho-analysis 'has prepared the
way for the acceptance of such phenomena as telepathy'. Like
Freud himself, Fodor is inclined to believe that telepathy manifests
itself between the unconscious minds of the persons concerned
and that this accounts for much of the apparently erratic and
elusive nature of the relevant phenomena, which makes them often
so exasperatingly unamenable to experimental or other conditions
imposed by conscious intention. Being by its nature an affair of
the unconscious, telepathy also partakes of the other characteristics
of unconscious mental processes as revealed by psycho-analysis.
As with dreams and other mental events largely affected by the
unconscious, the 'meaning' of telepathic impressions is frequently
not immediately obvious to the conscious mind and may require
'interpretation' of the kind familiar in psycho-analysis—and
therefore sometimes apparently fantastic or 'far-fetched' in its
682 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [jULY
nature—before the full extent and nature of the telepathic occur-
rence becomes clear.
This process of interpretation, however, naturally increases the
difficulty of scientific proof, since (as with psycho-analytic inter-
pretations generally) there is often room for doubt as to whether
the interpretation in any given case is correct or adequate. The
author's own interpretations in this book range from those which
would be acceptable to almost anybody who is willing to grant
that a symbolic process is at work to others as regards which even
many fellow psycho-analysts might be sceptical, especially as, in
the interest of speeding up the therapeutic and interpretative
process, Dr Fodor is admittedly prone to a somewhat active inter-
ference with the analysand's associations.
In the present book the author deals (amidst much other
material) with some twenty cases in which telepathy seems to have
manifested itself in the dreams of two or more subjects, usually
but not always on the same night, a number of them occurring
during or in connection with psycho-analytic treatment. Some of
these are striking, there being in one case no less than eight
'elements in common' between the 'shared dreams'. In another
pair of dreams it would seem that the cognitive content had got
dissociated from its affective context, so that one dreamer can
subsequently say to another : 'You were not afraid of the fire.
You could afford it, because I got your fear' (p. 198). Displace-
ment of affect is of course well known in psycho-analysis since its
early days, but here the displacement is from one dreamer to
another. As one criterion of telepathic influence in dreams, the
author suggests that a 'shared dream' cannot be adequately
explained or interpreted even by the most assiduous psycho-
analytic procedures unless the corresponding dream of the other
person is taken into account. But as to the circumstances which
tend to produce such 'shared dreams' he is cautiously reticent,
except for suggesting that there may be present some element of
sympathy or 'need for companionship, for sharing warmth and
affection, as well as the need for protection and reassurance in the
case of fear and anxiety' (p. 203).
In the absence of some compelling or quantitative criterion
(such as can usually only be supplied by rigorous experimental
procedure) readers' judgment concerning the evidence submitted
will inevitably vary, but it can certainly be said that the author
has here provided a good prima facie case for further investigation
along these lines. Furthermore, his data suggest the reflection
that, if telepathic dreams occur, they would in the vast majority
of instances be overlooked, so that there would seem to be a strong
case for a detailed comparison of dreams over a given period as
Reviews 683
between persons possessing some common bond which might
seem to make their occurrence Hkely. (Would that we knew more
about the nature of such common bond!) Ideally, perhaps, these
dreams should in the first place be submitted to some third person
with a knowledge of the personalities and circumstances of the
two dreamers, with psycho-analytic training and with opportunity
for interviewing them when necessary. The introduction of such
a third person, though in practice it might often be far from easy,
might reduce difficulties arising from the dreamers' own 'resis-
tances' and at the same time minimise the dangers of mutual
suggestion during subsequent discussion, such as is almost bound
to occur if the dreams are first discussed and 'interpreted' by the
dreamers themselves. Some further description of the author's
own precautions to avoid such suggestive influences would in
certain cases have been welcome.
Dr Fodor also believes in the reality of 'prophetic' dreams,
though here the evidence presented is less extensive. As in the
case of 'shared dreams', psycho-analytic interpretation is usually
necessary. Thus in a dream of his own he contends that there is
precognition of a quite unanticipated outcome of a libel action.
To mention the most impressive element, he dreamt that he was
presented with ^4 for a suit (of clothes), with which sum he was
dissatisfied, as he expected the suit would cost (this was early
in 1939). In the subsequent (law)suit, the judge quite un-
expectedly divided the grounds of libel into four groups. The
jury found libel on two of these counts, but not on the other two,
whereupon the judge divided the costs, so that Dr Fodor received
only half of the full cost of his 'suit' (p. 314).
In the other of the two fields in which, as was suggested above,
Dr Fodor has constituted himself a sort of liaison officer, he is
particularly concerned with the influence of birth and intra-
uterine fantasies and the anxieties connected with them. In this
he follows up the theme of his earlier volume The Search for the
Beloved. Ever since Freud first pointed out the existence of
dreams and fantasies of this kind, they have constituted a problem
which most psycho-analysts seem to have been shy in tackling.
Otto Rank's book The Trauma of Birth, which appeared in
1924, has been cold-shouldered as supposedly guilty of exaggera-
tion and as manifesting a flight from the more plausible and more
easily verifiable factors of later life revealed as important by
psycho-analysts. The possible influence of the birth trauma is
complicated by the fact that birth fantasies are undoubtedly used
to symbolise (perhaps we should say to conceal or cover) incestuous
tendencies connected with the Oedipus complex or indeed sexual
or other desires of a more general nature (the latter including the
684 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
widespread notion of 'spiritual rebirth'). Dr Fodor recognizes
the reaHty of this tendency (which he calls 'retrojection'), but
nevertheless is firm in his insistence on the importance of birth
fantasies in their own right and maintains that genuine birth
dreams can often be detected by an element of 'fatality' (in the
sense that something ttiust be done), finding a further justification
in the therapeutic success in his hands of what he calls 'birth
therapy'.
When we turn to the other obstacle to the serious treatment of
birth fantasies, which lies in the difficulty of imagining that we can
have any memory of our own individual birth, the author falls
back on the admittedly vague concepts of 'organismic mind' and
'organismic memory', which he holds can produce fantasies which
have a rough but real resemblance to the actual biological facts of
the birth process, even though the symbolism makes use of the
most varied elements of experience from later life. In judging
this position we must remember that Jung has insisted upon the
existence of psychic 'archetypes' and that Freud held, though
perhaps more hesitatingly, a similar view as regards certain primal
fantasies—both of which were supposedly independent of what
we ordinarily recognize as individual memories and which might
seem to be mediated by what might not unreasonably be called
organismic mind. We recognize that anatomical and physiological
development both in man and animals is determined by hereditary
or 'organismic' tendencies, that reflex and instinctive behaviour is
similarly determined, but we boggle at the notion of conscious
ideas (as distinct from conative tendencies) having a parallel origin.
If Jung is right (not that Dr Fodor makes any appeal to Jung) this
attitude is unjustified, and if we grant that fantasies may some-
times be determined by what we might broadly term racial
memories, then there is a fortiori also a case for some dim kind of
memory underlying birth and uterine fantasies, for they at least
correspond to events or states which have undoubtedly occurred
in the individual life, even though they belong to a period usually
covered by the deepest infantile amnesia. What is badly needed
here is some attempt to correlate the nature or vividness of natal
or prenatal fantasies with the actual individual history of birth or
gestation. Some thirty years ago the present reviewer (in The
Psycho-Analytic Study of the Family, 1921) suggested a line of
research which might possibly throw light upon the subject, but
in the interval neither he nor any other investigator has been
enterprising enough to face the difficulties (including the difficulty
of incredulity) involved. At least two cases mentioned by Dr
Fodor appear to show the existence of such a correlation : the
first, a patient whose (neurotic) pains in the navel were associated
Reviews 685
with a clumsy tying of the umbihcal cord, the second that of a
patient whose nightmares of stranghng were connected with the
fact that she was born with the cord tightly wound round her neck.
In both these cases the patients had been told of these conditions
attending their birth, and this subsequent information may have
been the sole factor in producing the mental phenomena observed ;
on the other hand it may just possibly have acted merely as a
reinforcing agent, and taken as a whole Dr Fodor's data certainly
strengthen the case for taking the 'birth trauma' seriously, what-
ever may be its origin, and for studying it by all methods which
may be available.
Not content with the fantasies of birth and of the prenatal state,
Dr Fodor goes further in suggesting what he calls fantasies of the
pre-maternal state and the trauma of conception. In some of
what he says under this heading he was interestingly anticipated
by Herbert Silberer who in igiz (Jahrbuch fur Psychoanalytische
und Psychopathologische Forschiingen, iv, 141) called attention to
the occurrence of 'spermatozoa dreams', which he thought might
symbolise a desire for impregnation (the dreamer had a knowledge
of biology) but which also, according to him, involved a desire for
'infinite regression', including return to the father's body, much
as in some of Dr Fodor's interpretations (though the latter author
does not actually refer to this anticipation of his views). Dr Fodor
is no more afraid of facing an element of mysticism than was
Silberer in an earlier psycho-analytic generation, though he admits
that such pre-maternal fantasies (insofar as they are anything
more than mere biologically interpreted fantasies expressing the
common idea of life before conception or incarnation) 'must be so
alien to our comprehension as to defy all attempts at verbal
expression. In feelings we may rise into it [pre-maternal exis-
tence] but we may not be able to translate this feeling into know-
ledge. ... As to the reality of such existence science has nothing
to offer' (p. 94).
There are various other aspects of the present work (the several
chapters of which originally appeared in article form in various
periodicals between 1942 and 1951) which are of interest primarily
to the psycho-analyst or psychopathologist. Among these is a
very striking account of some cases of long-persistent hysterical
colour blindness which yielded rapidly to psychological treatment.
We should mention, further, the author's interesting discussion
of the unconscious significance of numbers, which is probably the
most complete which has yet been attempted. The contrast
between the conscious (or perhaps we should say 'realistic')
mathematical treatment of numbers which are regarded as entirely
abstract and the unconscious treatment which immediately invests
686 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
them with some concrete meaning (often of a 'magical' and
extremely fantastic kind) is here particularly impressive and is
well calculated to bring out the special peculiarities of 'autistic
thinking' (e.g. i5 = house or home, because 15 minutes = a quarter
of an hour, and 'quarters) = living quarters, (p. 218) ; or again, in
what the author calls the 'evocation of the undreamt', when the
significant number may, for example, be obtained by subtraction,
as when '24 and 100' = 'independence', because 100-24 = 76, and
1776 is the date of the Declaration of Independence (though the
figure 76 itself never enters consciousness), (p. 348).
As the author says, 'logically or illogically the unconscious may
stop at nothing in search of meaning' (p. 263), and he reminds us
in this connection of the one-time humorous description of the
sexologist Baron Schrenck von Notzing as 'Baron Shrink from
Notzing (nothing)'. Some interesting examples are given of such
unconscious processes which have found their way into the
conscious mind and there become superstitions which have exer-
cised a potent influence on belief and behaviour. This raises the
disquieting question how far psycho-analytic or parapsychological
interpretations (including some of the author himself) may repre-
sent similar irruptions of the unconscious into our would-be
scientific attitudes and findings. The question has to be faced,
but should not deter us from a due scientific regard for the real
influence of the unconscious on many (we hardly know yet how
many) of the difficult problems with which psychical research is
concerned.
I
J. C. Flugel
The Greeks and the Irrational. By E. R. Dodds. Berkeley
and Los Angeles, University of California Press ;
London,
Cambridge University Press, 1951. ix, 327 pp. 37s. 6d.
The purpose of this book, which is the outcome of lectures
delivered in 1949 at Berkeley, California, is to consider whether
the Greeks were 'in fact quite so blind to the importance of non-
rational factors in man's experience and behaviour as is commonly
assumed both by their apologists and by their critics'. The
author's conclusion is that they were not. The book should be
considered primarily as a contribution to classical scholarship,
and has little direct bearing on the problems of modern psychical
research, but there is much in it that will interest the student of
these problems.
A chapter on 'The Blessings of Madness' includes a discussion
on 'Prophetic Madness' as exemplified by the Pythian priestess at
Delphi, into whom, it was alleged, the God Apollo entered and
1952] Reviews 687
used her vocal organs in the same way that 'the so-called "control"
does in modern spirit mediumship', and there is also (p. 71) an
account of 'belly-talkers'. It would appear that these people went
into trance during which a hoarse 'belly-voice', assumed to be that
of a 'daemon', was heard issuing from their lips. The analogy
with the 'direct voice' of modern days is obvious.
In the chapter on 'Dream-Pattern and Culture-Pattern' Pro-
fessor Dodds explains (p. 103) that he is mainly concerned not
with the dream-experience of the Greeks, but with their attitude
to dream-experience, but he points out that we may have to reckon
with variations in the character of the experience itself : 'In many
primitive societies there are types of dream-structure which
depend on a socially transmitted pattern of belief, and cease to
occur when that belief ceases to be entertained'. He quotes a
statement by Jung that a medicine-man had confessed to him that
'he no longer had any dreams, for they had the District Commis-
sioner now instead'. The chapter includes an account of the
various methods, mainly incubation, used to induce 'divine', that
is, significant dreams, as opposed to non-significant dreams. The
practice of incubation still persists among the Greek peasants of
today. The Hippocratic treatise On Regimen (p. 119) relates many
dreams to the physiological state of the dreamer, which they
express in symbolic form. Although the fourth-century author's
interpretation of these symbols would not be accepted today, it is
interesting to find him to this extent foreshadowing Freud, whom
he also anticipates in accepting 'the principle that the dream is
always egocentric'.
In Appendix I on 'Maenadism' there is an account of the
Oreibasia, the mountain dance, which seems to have originated as
a means of inducing religious experience and ecstasy ;
dancing
as a means to this end has many parallels. 'The ritual oreibasia
at a fixed date may have originally developed out of spontaneous
attacks of mass hysteria. By canalising such hysteria in an organ-
ised rite once in two years, the Dionysiac cult kept it within bounds
and gave it a relatively harmless outlet' (p. 272).
Appendix II contains an account of Theurgy, about which much
is still obscure. The practice would seem, however, to have
involved in some cases the employment of a trance medium.
Sometimes the trance would be a light one, the medium's conscious-
ness still persisting ; sometimes it would be deep, resembling
apparently the trance observed in Mrs Piper's mediumship. The
phenomena alleged to occur in the presence of these Theurgists
offer many analogies to the phenomena associated with modern
Spiritualism, paranormal knowledge, elongation and possibly
levitation of the medium's body, luminous forms and apparitions
688 yoiirnal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
seen entering and leaving his body, with which we may compare
'the so-called "ectoplasm" or "teleplasm", which modern
observers claim to have seen emerge from and return to the bodies
of certain mediums'.
H.deG. S.
Journal of Parapsychology. Durham, N.C., Duke University
Press. $1.50
Vol. 15, No. 3, September 1951.
In an editorial article. Professor Rhine discusses the outlook in
parapsychology. He notes the signs of maturity in parapsychologi-
cal experimentation and its consequent increasing technicality.
Of future trends, he prophesies increasing use of spontaneous cases
for giving fresh orientation in experimental work and increased
integration with neurophysiological and biological researches.
Mrs Rhine, in an article on 'Conviction and Associated Condi-
tions in Spontaneous Cases', points out some of the differences
between spontaneous cases of psi knowing and the experimental
results of card-guessing experiments, particularly the fact that the
former are very often accompanied by a conviction that the per-
cipient knows that the experience he is getting is giving him
information about a real event.
An article on 'ESP Performance and Target Sequence' by
S. G. Soal and J. G. Pratt contains an account of a new analysis of
a series of 33,500 ESP trials by Mrs Stewart in which the attempt
is made to discover whether there is any relationship between
success and the pattern of target sequences. Highly significant
relationships were found.
Professor Broad reviews a symposium by three philosophers on
the relevance of psychical research to philosophy. He agrees that
philosophers may make a useful contribution to parapsychology by
analysing its terminology, but suggests that they should prepare
themselves for this task by a careful study of the relevant literature.
Vol. 15, No. 4, December 1951.
In an article on 'The Present Outlook on the Question of Psi
in Animals', Professor Rhine makes a wide and well-documented
study of the research done in this field and of its unsolved problems.
He deals with investigations that are being made of migratory and
homing behaviour in birds, and of experimental work on homing in
mice. He also points to the very considerable body of evidence on
spontaneous homing behaviour in dogs and cats, and the still more
puzzling cases of trailing behaviour in which families have travelled
to a distance by car or train and found that their pets which were
left behind have turned up at their new homes.
r
1952] Reviews 689
^ In an article on 'Introversion-Extraversion Ratings in Relation
to Scores in ESP Tests', Dr Betty Humphrey finds a significant
i
difference between the psi scoring of those who are rated as
'
extraverts by the Bernreuter Personality Inventory and those who
are rated as introverts, the former scoring positively and the latter
negatively. It would be interesting to know whether this is an
intrinsic difference in introverted subjects or whether it is deter-
mined by the personality type of the experimenter. It is possible
that an introverted experimenter might find that his introverts
scored positively and his extraverts negatively.
A minor article by Paul and Christiane Vasse compares the
I
scoring rate of these two experimenters in PK tests. C.V.
showed significant positive effects while P.V. scored at chance
level. A previous study had suggested that C.V. was successful
in influencing the rate of germination of seeds while P.V. was less
so.
In 'An Experimental Study of ESP Capacity in Mental Patients'
by K. E. Bates and Marietta Newton, it is reported that although
co-operative patients scored better than those who were non-
co-operative, there were no significant differences found between
patients suffering from different mental disorders. The experi-
ment seems to have been of somewhat defective design since
differences were calculated only between total scores of different
classes of patients, instead of separate patients being treated as
individuals in a contingency table.
This number of the Journal concludes with 'Reflections on
Parapsychology, Psycho-analysis, and Atomic Physics' by Professor
P. Jordan, the German physicist, and a review by Professor
Ducasse of Mr Moncrieff's book The Clairvoyant Theory of
Perception.
Vol. 16, No. i, March 1952.
The Editorial by Professor Rhine is a discussion of the present
position of our knowledge about dowsing. It contains an inform-
ative account of experimental work in the past with valuable
suggestions of how it may be made more fruitful in the future.
}
Esther Foster gives an account of ESP experiments in which
'
(as in guessing playing cards) there is more than one aspect of the
target object on which success can be obtained. The problem is
whether there is a tendency in successful experiments to score
separately on the different aspects or whether success means that
the card is guessed right as a whole. In most experiments it
appears that the card is guessed right as a whole, but there are
indications in one experiment that the subject may be more
successful in some aspects than in others.
690 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
An address on 'Thought Transference and Related Phenomena*
given by R. H. Thouless to the Royal Institution in 1950 is
reprinted from the Proceedings of the Royal Institution.
A minor article of great interest and importance is contributed
by Miss E. A. G. Knowles on a psi effect obtained in stopping a
manually operated random selector in a determined position when
the apparatus is not seen by the operator. She points out that this
is an operation of a different character from that ordinarily
covered by the term P K, and suggests that it should be provision-
ally labelled PD (psi dexterity). She also points out that PD may
enter into success with dice when these are thrown manually.
A placement PK experiment by H. Forwald, following a highly
successful experiment reported earlier, did not yield significant
deviations from mean chance expectation. The combined result of
the two series remains, however, highly significant.
R. H. Thouless
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research.
Vol. 46, No. 2, April 1952. New York, A.S.P.R., $1.50.
In 'Current Developments in Psychical Research', Dr Gardner
Murphy reviews modern trends and feels that real progress is
being made in the field of extrasensory perception. He makes a
six-part appeal to members of the A.S.P.R. which our own
members would do well to heed : (
i
) To record every spontaneous
case that comes their way ; (2) to take part in home experiments ;
(3) to contribute financially ; (4) to let others know about the aims
and work of the Society ; (5) to come to meetings or form Study
Groups ; (6) '. . . you can always ask questions which will put a
bee in our bonnet .... There is nothing more glib, more garrulous,
and more hopeless than a research man who thinks he can get
along without other people's suggestions. It is a completely
nonsensical idea. . . . What we research people want is to be
understood, to be helped ... to be criticized. We want to be told
what we should do that we are not doing, and told how we should
do it. If you know of sensitives, if you know of methods, if you
know of problems, let us hear about them ; let's find a way.
Let's do the best we can do in a group enterprise.'
J. L. Woodruft' and Mrs L. A. Dale present a report on a study
of the relationship between ESP function and the psychogalvanic
response. The results were disappointing.
W. H. W. Sabine stresses the value of reports of spontaneous
precognition. He suggests that selected remarkable cases 'will
not help so much in its study as a number of cases, however
trivial the circumstances, which have happened to the same
1952] Correspondence 691
individual, provided always that he is capable of exact observation
and narration.'
An elaborate PK research is being carried out by Dale and
Woodruff using the rotating cage with camera with which
Professor Robert McConnell, of the Physics Department of the
University of Pittsburgh, is said to have achieved spectacular
results.
D. P.
CORRESPONDENCE
The Dieppe Raid Case
Sir,—The statements made by D. and A. in The Dieppe Raid
Case contain unusual features and are in certain respects
ambiguous.
{a) Until A. had returned to the room (assuming A. was
absent from the room for 5 minutes) neither A. nor D. had men-
tioned to the other the noises that they had heard for 15 minutes.
{b) There is no conclusive evidence that A. continued to hear
those noises during the 5 minutes that she was absent from the
room. If she did not, what significance (if any) should attach
thereto? There is no evidence that A. suddenly (or otherwise)
ceased to hear those noises upon leaving the room and suddenly
(or otherwise) commenced to hear those noises upon returning to
the room. If she did, what significance (if any) should attach
thereto ?
(c) There is no conclusive evidence (apart from the fact that
in their respective statements D. says that she had been listening
to it 'for about 20 minutes' and A. says that she had been listening
to it 'for about 15 minutes') whether D. continued to hear those
noises during the 5 minutes that A. was absent from the room.
{d) There is no evidence (apart from the fact that in her state-
ment D. says that 'A. said she had also been listening to it for about
20 minutes') whether D. or A. (and at what time) first mentioned
to the other the length of time that D. or A. had heard those
noises.
{e) Although A. in her statement says that she had been
listening to the noises 'for about 15 minutes' D. in her statement
says that 'A. said she had also been listening to it for about 20
minutes'. When did A. make this observation to D.?
(/) If it is correct that D. and A. had heard those noises for
20 minutes and 15 minutes respectively, before A. left the room,
how is the discrepancy of 5 minutes accounted for?
69a Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
(g) Since it is not known for how long D. had been awake, D.
may have been mistaken when she says that she 'woke up before
it started'. While A. suggests (unless her awakening and the
commencement of the noises were coincidental) that she (A.) was
awakened by such noises, it may be (although such noises may
have commenced in the sense that had A. been awake she would
have recognised them) that she was not.
(h) Is there any evidence that D. and A. (alone or jointly) had
recently attended a film of, or discussed with others, the Dieppe
landing, or some other subject that might be suggestive thereof?
Whether such evidence is, or is not, available, it is apparent from
the nature of the statements made by D. and A. and from the fact
that D. and A. occupied the same room, when they heard those
noises, that collaboration cannot be excluded.
Denis Chesters
Sir,—The Dieppe Raid Case, investigated by G. W. Lambert and
Kathleen Gay, must recall to the minds of many the case of An
Adventure, in which also anonymity was, at the outset, preferred
by the percipients. In both cases the hallucinatory experience
occurred to two English ladies while on a holiday in France. Both
dates were in the month of August, and on a Saturday (August 10,
1901, and August 4, i95i).The Dieppe Raid case was, indeed,
almost on the fiftieth anniversary of the Trianon one. In both
cases additional experiences were reported by one only of the per-
cipients : Mrs Dorothy Norton in the one case. Miss Jourdain in
the other.
A less obvious but very important point of resemblance arises
out of the possession by Mrs Dorothy Norton and Miss Agnes
Norton of a guide book entitled Dieppe. Mr Lambert appears to
have shown satisfactorily that the information about the raid in this
guide book could account for but a small part of the knowledge
evinced by the percipients in their statements ; and moreover they
said they had not read the book before the experience started.
None the less, it is undeniable that the word 'Dieppe' is alone
sufficient to suggest to the mind of any English person the famous
raid of August 19, 1942.
Miss Moberly and Miss Jourdain, the percipients in the Trianon
case, also had a guide book—Baedeker's Paris. Turning to the
description of the Petit Trianon, the actual scene of their 'Adven-
ture,' in the 1900 edition, we read : 'A visit should be paid
to the Jardin du Petit Trianon, which is laid out in the English
style and contains some fine exotic trees, an artificial lake, a
'Temple of Love', and a 'Hamlet' of nine or ten rustic cottages,
where the court ladies played at rustic life.' ,
...
1952] Correspondence 693
When the eye of the EngUsh-speaking reader hghts on the word
'Hamlet' (so printed), it is apt to suggest to him the tragedy,
although a moment later he realises that the celebrated Hameau
is intended. But an image of Hamlet has been called up, however
fleetingly, a picture of the solitary and melancholy man in con-
junction with the 'Temple of Love.' These images may well
account for the sinister cloaked figure which Miss Moberly and
Miss Jourdain believed they had seen sitting close to the pillared
kiosk.
That which is suggested by the word 'Dieppe' to two modern
young Englishwomen who know what the sounds of war are, and
that which is suggested by the words 'Temple of Love' and
'Hamlet' to two middle-aged spinsters of the year 1901 are, beyond
all question, very different. But is there not an indication of the
same principle lying behind their respective hallucinations? May
we not have in both cases illustrations of the power of the mind to
be cognisant of the contents of books and other sources of infor-
mation which have not yet been seen, and, under rare and excep-
tional circumstances, to share this experience with another and
bring it to consciousness by means of a visual or auditory hallucin-
ation or both?
I am well aware that Miss Moberly and Miss Jourdain displayed
a sad ignorance of psychical research, scarcely excusable in women
of their opportunities ; but their severest critics may see in the
experience of Mrs and Miss Norton some reason to reconsider
whether the Trianon case did not have, at the outset, a genuinely
paranormal basis.
It may also be thought desirable to enquire whether the per-
cipients in the Dieppe Raid Case have ever read An Adventure or
extracts from it.
W. H. W. Sabine
Mr G. W. Lambert writes :
The Editor has shown me the above letters with the authors'
permission, and I am glad to have the opportunity to make the
following observations.
Mr Chesters is quite right in calling attention to a discrepancy
between D.'s and A.'s statements as to the earliest phase of the
experience. I noticed the discrepancy and asked the percipients
questions with a view to resolving it but was not entirely success-
ful. The discrepancy is unsatisfactory, but relates to a period of
time which is small (5 minutes, at the outside) and is not of crucial
importance, considering the margin of inaccuracy one must allow
for in judging how long one has been awake in the dark before
looking at the time.
694 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [JULY
In the course of my questioning I ascertained
(1) that the percipients took the time from their respective
wrist-watches, which had not got luminous dials. It is to be
inferred, therefore, that neither knew the time was 4.20 a.m. till
the light was turned on. It is clear that the light was not turned
on till A. returned to the room. I therefore inferred that D.
heard the noise start at 4.20 a.m. minus 20 minutes—but this
20 minutes is necessarily a guess and, for all one can know, it may
have been 3.47 or so, when (on 19 August 1942) the firing started,
or some minutes after 4 a.m.
(2) that A. did (quite certainly) hear the noise while she was
out of the room, just as she continued to hear it out on the balcony
later on. (I was concerned to discover whether A.'s hearing of
the noise was dependent on the close physical presence of D.;
apparently it was not). I made no attempt in the report to draw
out the full significance of the incident. I did not ask D. whether,
during A.'s absence from the room, she also continued to hear
the noises, but it is tolerably certain that she did.
The above supplementary information goes a long way to
answer the points {a) to {g). It means that the time '4.20 a.m.'
from the beginning of D.'s statement cannot be taken as exact,
as she did not know the time was 4.20 till the light was turned on
20 minutes later. The existence of the discrepancy between the
statements at this point is tantalizing, but is rather strong evidence
against the theory of collaboration.
As to point [h), neither D. nor A. was 'interested' in the Dieppe
raid, and had neither 'read it up' nor had it brought forcibly to
her attention shortly before the experience. The possibility of
collaboration in making up the whole story cannot be excluded,
any more than can the possibility of 'faking' in what purports to
have been a scientific experiment of a kind that cannot easily be
repeated. The good faith of the percipients must either be
accepted or not. In this case the investigators, who are not
without experience in these matters, have more than usually full
information affording grounds for accepting the good faith of the
percipients.
In his very interesting comparison of the Dieppe Raid Case with
the Trianon case of 1901, Mr Sabine asks whether the percipients
in the former case had ever read An Adventure or extracts from it.
Mrs Norton (D.), on being asked whether she had read that book,
did not recognize the title, but, when Versailles was mentioned, had
a vague recollection of it. She seemed to know the outline of the
story, without any detail. It is, of course, possible that her uncon-
scious memory of the Trianon case is much fuller than her conscious
r
1952] Correspondence 695
recollection of it. But if the earlier case played any important
part in suggesting the 'framework' of the later case, it is surprising
that the later experience was not a visual hallucination, like the
Trianon case, and like the earlier experiences of Mrs Norton her-
self, before her visit to the Dieppe neighbourhood. I would judge
that both percipients had enough normally acquired knowledge
of the Dieppe Raid, and experience, acquired doing the war, of
noises made by guns, shells, etc., to 'explain' the occasion and gen-
eral content of the experience of the 4th August, 1951, and that it is
hardly necessary to call in aid forgotten details of the Trianon case.
What the memory of past reading or experience cannot explain in
the Dieppe Raid Case is the time coincidence factor which
characterized an abnormal experience (prolonged auditory hallucin-
ation) unique in the lives of both percipients. If one admits that
any feature of the experience came ab extra, where is one to draw
the line?
ESP AS Guesswork
Sir,—When Mr Flew first put forward his suggestion about
ESP and guesswork I failed to see the connexion, and his recent
letter to the Journal does not make it any clearer. Certainly the
process of 'guessing' deserves psychological study. It has long
been realized that guesses do not come mysteriously out of the
blue in strictly random fashion. In card-calling tests most
subjects change their call from one trial to the next more fre-
quently than occurs in a chance series, and every subject has his
own symbol preferences and sequence habits. While it would
be interesting to know the inner reasons for these habits, it is
difficult to see how such knowledge could help towards an
understanding of ESP.
In a succesful ESP test, there is a correlation between cards
and calls which shows that one of the associations available to
the subject, and effective in determining his choices, is the target
order. No amount of knowledge of the ordinary associations
I
which influence choices seems likely to explain how the concealed
j
target becomes available to the subject.
[
The same consideration applies to spontaneous cases. It is
interesting to know, for example, that a dream of a relative's death
is due to unconscious hate, but this in no way explains the fulfil-
ment of such a dream. Unlike Mr Flew, Freud seems to have
I
been well aware of this when he put forward the theory that
mediums are telepathically sensitive especially to the repressed
complexes of their clients.
I
D. J. West
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN
BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY TRESS, GLASGOW
Society for Psychical Research
31 Tavistock Square •
London • WCi
SUPPLEMENT
TO
JOURNAL
Volume XXXVI No. 671 July-October 1952
FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
The Society's Rooms, including the Library, will be open throughout
the summer.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of the Society was held at 3 1 Tavistock
Square, London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 23 April 1952, at 3 p.m.,
under the chairmanship of Mrs W. H. Salter.
The Secretary having read the notice convening the Meeting, the
Report of the Council and the Accounts were presented. After a
discussion in which Mr E. R. Brown, Dr E. J. Dingwall, Mrs K. M.
Goldney, Mrs F. Heywood, Mr P. I. Price, Mr P. S. Seward, and
Mr B. Smith took part, the Hon. Secretary, Mr W. H. Salter, moved
the adoption of the Annual Report and Accounts which was seconded
by Miss I. Jephson and carried unanimously.
The Chairman announced that there were no candidates for election
to membership of the Council other than the six members who retired
by rotation and who offered themselves for re-election, and the follow-
ing six members were accordingly unanimously elected : Mrs K. M.
Goldney, Lord Charles Hope, Mr G. W. Lambert, Mr W. H. Saker,
Mrs W. H. Salter, and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt. On the
proposal of Admiral Strutt, seconded by Dr E. J. Dingwall, Messrs
Miall, Harper & Co. were re-elected Auditors for the forthcoming year.
OBITUARY
We regret to record the death of Dr William Brown, a distinguished
member of the Society. Dr Brown was Wilde Reader in Mental
Philosophy in the University of Oxford from 1921 to 1946, and
founder and first Director (1936-45) of the Institute of Experimental
Psychology in that University. He was President of The British
Psychological Society, 195 1-2.
ii Supplement to Journal, July-October ig^2
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
Meetings of the Council were held as follows :
473rd 27 Feb. 1952 Chairman : The President, Dr S. G. Soal.
474th 16 Apl. 1952 Chairman : Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
475th 23 Apl. 1952 Chairman : Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
476th 23 Apl. 1952 Chairman : Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
At the meeting of the Council held on 16 April 1952 the following
co-optations to the Council were renewed for the current year : Mr
G. W. Fisk, the Hon. Mrs C. H. Gay, Professor A. C. Hardy, Mr J.
Fraser Nicol, Mr Edward Osborn, Dr D. J. West, and Dr Richard
Wilson.
At the meeting of the Council held immediately after the Annual
General Meeting on 23 April 1952, the following were elected :
Committee of Reference and Publication: Professor C. D. Broad,
Mrs F. Heywood, Mr Denys Parsons, Professor H. H. Price, Mr
W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Dr S. G. Soal, Dr R. H. Thouless,
Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell, and Dr D. J. West.
Finance Committee (Convener, Admiral Strutt) : Mrs K. M. Goldney,
Lord Charles Hope, Mr G. W. Lambert, and Admiral the Hon.
A. C. Strutt.
House Committee (Convener, Mrs Goldney) : Mrs K. M. Goldney, Miss
I. Jephson, Mr Edward Osborn, Mr W. H. Salter, and Admiral the
Hon. A. C. Strutt.
President
Dr Gilbert Murray, O.M.
Honorary Officers
Hon. Treasurer, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Hon. Secretaries, Mr W. H. Salter and Mr Denys Parsons.
Hon. Editor of Proceedings, Mrs W. H. Salter.
Committees
Corresponding Members
Mrs E. W. Allison
Dr T. N. E. Greville
Dr G. H. Hyslop
Dr C. G. Jung
Admiral A. Tanagras
Dr W. H. C. Tenhaeff
Dr R. Tischner
Count von Klinckowstroem
Rudolf Lambert
Professor Gardner Murphy
Dr J. B. Rhine
Mr Carl Vett
R. Warcollier
Dr Th. Wereide
Dr Chr. Winther
Supplement to Journal, July-October ig^2 iii
Honorary Associates
Mrs Whately Carington Dr Betty Humphrey
Miss H. Carruthers Professor C. M. Sage
Mrs L. A. Dale Mr Basil Shackleton
Dr G. de Boni Mr G. H. Spinney
The Rev. W. S. Irving Dr R. H. Thouless
Miss M. Phillimore Miss Nea Walker
Mrs K. Richmond
MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY
I. Private Meetings at 2 i Tavistock Square
249th Wednesday, 19 March 1952, at 6.30 p.m. Dr E. J. Dingwall
:
'Some New Light on ID. D. Home'.
250th Wednesday, 16 April 1952, at 6.30 p.m. Mr A. T. Oram:
'The Trend of Experimental Technique in ESP and PK'.
2. Public Lectures at Caxton Hall
Wednesday, 21 May 1952, at 8 p.m. Dr Gilbert Murray, O.M.
Presidential Address.
Wednesday, 4 June 1952, at 8 p.m. Dr R. H. Thouless. iith
Myers Memorial Lecture.
NEW MEMBERS
Members
{Elected 27 February 1952)
Anderson, A. J., M.Sc, c/o Dr West, 31 Tavistock Square, London,
W.C. I.
Brabazon of Tara, The Rt Hon. Lord, 20 Berkeley Square, London,
W. I.
Drazin, I., 41 Hodford Road, London, N.W. 11.
James, John M., B.A., 49 Castelnau Mansions, Barnes, London, S.W. 13.
Jones, E. B. Forster, 18 Medusa Road, Catford, London, S.E. 6.
Leybourne, W., 68 Borough Road, Middlesbrough, Yorks.
MooREHOUSE, Mrs L. Rhodes, Mortham Tower, Barnard Castle, Co.
Durham.
Riddehough, Prof. G. B., Ph.D., Dept. of Classics, The University
of British Columbia, Vancouver, B.C., Canada.
Storer, a. J., Cheriton, Eleven Acre Rise, Loughton, Essex.
Walker, Mrs D., i Crediton Hill, London, N.W. 6.
Wilson, John, Jr., Arran, Nightingale Avenue, West Horsley, Surrey.
Student-Associates
Mattock, G.V.R., B.Sc, 13 Cobden Road, Leytonstone, London, E. 11.
Pickup, C, 3 Lord Street, Gt Harwood, nr Blackburn, Lanes.
IV Supplement to Journal, July-October ig^2
Members
{Elected i6 April 1952)
BusHELL, J. C. W., 13 Stanhope Row, London, W. i.
Carver, R. I., The Lodge, Little St. Anne's, Bakeham Lane, Engle-
field Green, Surrey.
Dove, Commander J. S., R.N., O.B.E., 4 Aldeburgh Lodge, Alde-
burgh, Suffolk.
Jones, F. H., 30 High Street, Cefn-Coed, Methyr-Tydfil, Glam.
Librarian, Seabury-Western Seminary, Evanston, Illinois, U.S.A.
Mackintosh, Hugh L., M.B., Ch.B., 7 St Meddan's Street, Troon,
Ayrshire.
Price, Philip I., B.A., 54 Tadworth Road, Cricklewood, London,
N.W. 2.
Scott, David P., 7 The Little Boltons, London, S.W. 10.
'
Stanton, S., 4 Weymouth Court, Weymouth Street, London, W. i
Student-Associates
Clarke, P. R. F., Wynford, Nev^^ Street, Deddington, Oxford.
Millerson, G. L., 81 Rutland Gardens, Harringay, London, N. 4.
Member
[Elected 23 April 1952)
Brov^^n, D. G. Spencer, Trinity College, Cambridge.
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
JOURNAL
of the
Society for Psychical Research
Volume XXXVI No. 672 November-December 1952
ESP EXPERIMENTS WITH SIMULTANEOUS
ELECTRO-ENCEPHALOGRAPHIC RECORDINGS
By S. C. Wallwork
The intention in performing these experiments was to discover
whether it is possible to distinguish between correct and incorrect
ESP calls by changes in the electrical activity of the brain of the
percipient. If such a distinction could be made, it would not
only give some insight into the ESP process, but it might enable
a weak ESP faculty to be detected without the necessity for
carrying out a large number of experiments for the application of
statistical methods. It is reasonable to suppose that a call which
is correct by chance would be accompanied by a similar type of
brain activity to that of an incorrect call, but one which is correct
by genuine ESP faculty might be accompanied by a different
type of activity. If these two types of brain activity could be
unambiguously distinguished, then every single ESP hit could
be detected.
As soon as a few preliminary runs had been completed, it was
realized that it would be very unlikely that any unambiguous dif-
ference could be recognized on the EEG record between ESP
hits and misses. These runs were, nevertheless, very instructive
and served as a guide to further experiments, so the procedure
will be described briefly.
The percipient generally wore four pairs of electrodes, two in
fronto-parietal and two in temporo-occipital positions, and the
potentials developed across each pair were recorded on separate
channels on the EEG. The tests were carried out under GESP
conditions, using a home-made pack of twenty-five cards contain-
ing five of each of the symbols O, L, S, V, Z. As each card was
exposed by the agent, he tapped with a pencil directly on to the
EEG record in a position close to the recording pens, thereby
making a mark which synchronised the card exposure with the
record of brain activity. The tap could be heard by the per-
697
698 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [NOVEMBER
cipient in an adjacent room through an open communicating
hatch, but percipient and agent were not visible to each other.
On hearing the tap, the percipient made his guess at the target
card.
Three methods of recording the guesses were tried. In the
first, the percipient wrote them down himself while in a semi-
reclining position and with his eyes open. This method was
rejected because regular, large-potential jumps, particularly in the
temporo-occipital channels, indicated that movement of the eyes
after the recording of each guess was causing interfering muscle
potentials. In the second method, the percipient indicated his
guess by depressing one of five keys on a key-board, so causing
the illumination of the corresponding symbol in a box watched
by the experimenter. Unfortunately, electrical interference from
the keyboard completely obliterated the EEG record, and this
method was abandoned also, though the interference might have
been overcome by screening the keyboard. The third method,
which was adopted for all subsequent experiments, was simply
that the percipient spoke his guesses softly from a reclining
position with eyes closed and with the minimum of muscle move-
ment, while the experimenter recorded the guesses. These softly-
spoken calls could not be heard by the agent in the adjacent room
because of the background noise made by the mechanism of the
EEG.
It was soon found that there was no obvious change in the
EEG pattern at any point in a GESP run, and it could no longer
be expected that any prominent feature could be associated with
either a correct or an incorrect ESP call. It should be mentioned
here that the percipient had shown significant results in previous
GESP tests. Table 2 {a) shows the results of all the tests carried
out under GESP conditions with the same agent during the first
three months of experiments with this percipient. From the
ESP point of view, the experimental methods and conditions
were the same as for the EEG experiments, except that the agent
and percipient were seated at separate tables in the same room in
such a way that the percipient could not see the agent and the
agent could only see the back of the percipient. Also, in some of
the experiments, ESP instead of letter cards were used, but in
all cases they were in 'closed packs' of twenty-five cards. After
this significant series of tests, there had been an interval of about
two months before any further GESP experiments had been
carried out, and when they were resumed no further significant
scores were obtained. The EEG experiments were therefore
commenced at a time when good scores could not be expected.
Nevertheless, it was reasonable to suppose that the percipient
1952] ESP Experimenfs with EEG Recordings 699
would still be capable of making at least an occasional correct
guess by ESP.
It was then considered that a more sensitive test for extra-
sensory communication between agent and percipient might be
the recognition of similar trends in the EEG records made from
both persons at the same time. Such similarities might be detect-
able even if differentiating features could not be found in the
record from the percipient alone. This possibility was tested by
taking simultaneous records from both percipient and agent, eacla
wearing two pairs of electrodes in posterior positions and feeding
into the four channels of the one machine. No obvious similarity
between the two sets of records could be found at any point.
The conditions were not good, however, because the agent had
his eyes open and both he and the percipient were in a sitting
position.
After these preliminar}^ experiments, a different procedure was
adopted, for the suggestion of which the author is indebted to Dr
J. R. Smythies. The electrode arrangement and the method of
conducting these experiments were the same as in those already
described in which the percipient and agent were in adjacent
rooms. The agent recorded the order of the target cards on a
score sheet which was kept separate from the experimenter's list
of the percipient's calls until the experiment was over. Before
comparing the calls with the target cards, the EEG record was
examined for the extent of alpha-rhythm. Each period during
which a card had been exposed was rated as 'strong alpha',
'average alpha', or 'weak alpha', on the basis of the previous
r';Cords made by the percipient. A more quantitative rating could
I >l be carried out because a wave-analyser was not available, but
is qualitative classification was made by Mr E. G. Williams, the
2ctro-encephalograph technician, assisted by the agent and the
...perimenter. Only after this examination was complete were
the guesses and target cards compared and the positions of correct
and incorrect calls correlated with the EEG.
This correlation was carried out as follows. Of the total number
of periods during which cards had been exposed, the fractions
having each of the three ratings were found. These fractions
represent the probabilities of any one guess being associated with
'strong alpha' or 'average alpha' or 'weak alpha' activity. Also, the
number of hits and the number of misses associated with each
tji^pe of activity were found. By comparing these with the total
X^-mbers of hits and misses, they are converted into the propor-
-j,)n of hits with each rating and the proportion of misses with
each rating.
If there were no correlation between success and alpha-rhythm
yoo Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [November
activity, these two proportions should be the same for each type
of rating, or the difference between the proportions should be
zero. This difference is not usually zero, and to test whether it -
is significant it is compared with the standard error of the differ-
ence, calculated from the formula Jpq{ijn-^ + ijn.2). Here, p is 1
the probability of a guess being associated with the particular
type of activity under consideration (found as described above),
q is the probability of its not being so associated and is there- ,
fore equal to (i -p), is the total number of hits, and the :
total number of misses. The ratio of the difference between
the proportions to the standard error of the difference is the ]
critical ratio which is the measure of the significance of the differ- I
ence. To be indicative of a definite tendency for hits to be
associated with one particular type of alpha-rhythm activity, the 1
critical ratio must be at least three. This analysis has been carried
out for + 1 (precognitive) and - i (postcognitive) hits as well as i
for o hits on the actual target card, and the results are shown in
Table i.
From the small values of the critical ratios it is clear that no
correlation has been found between the distribution of hits and
the variation of alpha-rhythm activity in the brain of the per-
cipient. Unfortunately, the analysis of scores shows that these
experiments are also insignificant from the ESP point of view.
This is probably due largely to the general decline in scores shown
by the percipient, but it may also be due partly to bad ESP
conditions caused by the discomfort of wearing the electrodes.
A comparison of the scores in this series of experiments with the
GESP scores in the previous significant series of experiments^
with the same agent is shown in Table 2. is
Because of the insignificance of the ESP scores in these expend
ments with the EEG, it is impossible at the moment to sst
whether there is any correlation between the correctness of lAi
ESP call and the nature or extent of electrical activity of the
brain of the percipient at the time when the call is made. It is
hoped, therefore, that it will be possible to repeat these experi-
ments with other percipients.
The author would like to thank Mr J. Parsons for being a very
co-operative percipient under rather trying experimental condi-
tions and Mr R. B. Joynson, Lecturer in Psychology at Notting-
ham University, for advice and assistance. Thanks are also due
to Dr D. Macmillan, Physician Superintendent of Mapperley
Hospital, Nottingham, for permission to use the electro-ence-
phalograph, and to Mr E. G. WiUiams for assisting in the experi-
ments and in the evaluation of the results.
1952] ESP Experiments with EEG Recordings 701
TABLE 1
CORRELATION OF ALPHA-RHYTHM ACTIVITY WITH DISTRIBUTION
OF HITS
(o) Number of guessing periods having each of the three alpha-rhythm ratings
Alpha-rhythm rating
First expt., 28- 8-51 Second expt., 4-9-51
— I 0 + 1 — I 0 -I-
1
Strong - - - 46 48 47 48 50 4S
Average - - -
94 98 92 99 102 lOI
Weak 38 40 39 45 48 46
(b) Analysis of correlation of hits and misses with the three alpha-rhythm ratings
Rating
Number of
hits u;ith each
rating
Number of
misses ivith
each rating
Difference between pro-
portions of hits and misses
with each rating
Critical ratios
— I 0 -1-
1
— I 0 -Hi — I 0 +1 — I 0 +1
^irst experiment,
28-8-51
Strong
Average
Weak
II 10 12
20 19 16
8 811
35 38 35
74 79 76
30 32 28
0-030 0-080 0-080
0-019 0-016 0-136
o-oii 0-001 0-080
0-38 0-19 0-70
0-21 0-17 1-51
0-15 o-oi 1-07
iecond experi-
ment,
4-9-51
Strong
Average
Weak
798
19 26 17
788
41 41 37
80 76 84
38 40 38
0-046 0-052 0-009
0-073 O-12I 0-0I2
0-027 0-069 0-003
O'SS 070 o-ii!
0-76 1-41 0-13
0-33 0-95 0-04
TABLE 2. SUMMARY OF ESP SCORES
Percipient—J. Parsons. Agent—S. C. Wallwork.
(a) Previous significant series
Date Total Calls — I hits 0 hits -h I hits Target Cards
26-1-51 ns 36 51 28 ESP
3-2-51 125 26 24 27 ESP
1-3-5
1
275 52 70 50 Letters
8-3-Si 200 31 44 48 Letters
775 145 189 153
Chance expectation 148-8 155 148-8
Deviation -3-8 + 34 + 4-2
Critical ratio 0-35 305 0-39
(6) Preliminary experiments with the EE
G
1-6-51 200 31 33 41 Letters
17-7-51 100 25 24 21 Letters
300 56 57 62
Chance expectation 57-6 60 57-6
Deviation + 1-6 -3 + 4-4
Critical ratio 0-24 0-43 0-65
(c) EEG experiments with alpha-rhythm rating
28-8-51 186 39 37 39 Letters
4-9-51 200 33 43 33 Letters
386 72 80 72
Chance expectation 74 77-2 74
Deviation —2 + 2-8
Critical ratio 0-26 0-36 0-26
702 Journal of tJie Society for Psychical Research [NOVEMBER
EXTRASENSORY PERCEPTION AND
PSYCHOKINESIS
An Explanation in terms of Intuitivist Epistemo-
LOGY AND PeRSONALIST METAPHYSICS
By N. Lossky
Professor C. D. Broad, in his article 'The Relevance of Psychical
Research to Philosophy', writes as follows : 'To sum up about
the implications of the various kinds of paranormal cognition. I
have the impression that we should do well to consider much
more seriously than we have hitherto been inclined to do the type
of theory which Bergson put forward in connection with normal
memory and sense perception. The suggestion is that the func-
tion of the brain and nervous system and sense organs is in the
main eliminative and not productive.'^
While fully agreeing with Professor Broad, I should like to put
forward some suggestions as to the kind of philosophical system
which would render explicable the facts of extrasensory percep-
tion established beyond all doubt by modern research. It seems
to me that these facts can be best explained on the basis of meta-
physical personalism combined with an intuitive theory of know-
ledge, i.e. with the doctrine that we directly perceive not only our
own mental states, but objects of the external world-as well.^
Personalism is the theory that the world consists of actual and
potential individual centres of consciousness. A well-known
instance of personalism is the philosophy of Leibniz, according
to whom even atoms—or, we should now say, electrons, protons,
etc.—are monads or potential personalities. These elementary
entities not only create material processes of attraction and repul-
sion, but have inner experiences, unconscious psychoid processes
which differ from psychic processes solely by their extreme
simplicity. Leibniz calls such entities 'sleeping monads'. Under
the influence of experience they develop and combine with one
another, forming atoms, molecules, unicellular and multicellular
organisms. Their life thus becomes more and more complex, and
at last they become actual personalities.
Every self is a supertemporal and superspatial entity, but it
imparts to its feelings, strivings, and actions the form of time
^ Philosophy, October 1949, p. 306.
"
A short exposition of such a philosophical system is given in my
History of Russian Philosophy (New York, International Universities
Press, 1951), an English edition of which is to be published by Allen &
Unwin early in 1953.
1952] Extrasensory Perception and Psychokinesis 703
(psychical or psychoid processes) or of both space and time
(e.g. material processes of attraction, repulsion, movement,
etc.).i
A supertemporal entity manifesting itself in time is called in
philosophy a substance. It is preferable to use the term 'sub-
stantival agent', in order to emphasize its active character.
Leibniz maintained that monads 'have neither doors nor win-
dows', and that the being of each is entirely separate from that of
others. It is a mistake, however, to conceive of the world as
broken up into disconnected units. Every agent's manifestations
are in accordance with the principles and mathematical ideas that
determine the structure of time and space and are identical for all.
As bearers of identical formal principles of the world's structure,
substantival agents or monads are consiibstantial with one another.
The founder of neo-Platonism, Plotinus, used an excellent meta-
phor to illustrate this consubstantiality : he said that the human
race consists of a number of men who look in different directions
but are joined together at the backs of their heads. The consub-
stantiality is of course only partial, but it constitutes such an
intimate bond between substantival agents that each one's experi-
ences exist not for it alone, but, if only unconsciously, for all the
others, i.e. from the personalist standpoint, for the world as a
whole. This is of essential importance to epistemology. If I
direct intentional acts of awareness, attention, and discrimination
upon an external object, it is cognized by me as it is in itself, and
not by means of subjective images, symbols, etc. Such direct
contemplation of objects as they actually are may be called
intuition.
It will be said that if direct perception of external objects be a
fact, there can be no need for us to have eyes, ears, and other
sense organs. According to the theory worked out by Galileo,
Hobbes, and Descartes, stimulation of the sense organs is the
cause which gives rise in our minds to the subjective image of an
external object. Bergson rejected this causal theory of percep-
tion : he maintained that physiological processes in the sense
organs and the cortex do not create the perception, but are merely
a stimulus inciting us to direct attention to the actual external
object that has impinged upon our body and may be harmful or
useful to us. Unfortunately Bergson's intuitivism did not go far
enough : he did not regard all cognitive acts as intuitive. Scien-
tific knowledge expressible in rational concepts was for him, as
for Kant, a subjective construct of our reason and not contempla-
tion of reality. He thought that in addition to the activity of
^ See my article 'The Absolute Criterion of Truth' in the Review of
Metaphysics, June 1949.
704 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [NOVEMBER
reason we also have a faculty of intuition as the contemplation
of creative living reality not expressible in rational notions.
For fifty years I have been developing an integral theory of
intuitivism, i.e. the theory that all cognitive acts are different
kinds of intuition. ^ My book Sensuous, Intellectual and Mystical
Intuitio?i is a detailed exposition of the view that sensory qualities
of objects are not our subjective sensations, but properties of
material processes in the external world ; rational ideas—e.g.
mathematical truths—are objects of intellectual intuition by means
of which we contemplate the ideal aspect of the world—the aspect
owing to which the world is a system ;
mystical intuition is the
source of religious experience. A theory of intuition based upon
the conception of the intimate bond between every self and the
world as a whole may be called a co-ordinational theory of percep-
tion. On that theory the most ordinary sense perception, e.g.
seeing a tree within ten yards of me, is a kind of clairvoyance :
the excitation of the eye and of the visual centres in the cortex
is merely a stimulus for my self to perform an act of clairvoy-
ance in space. Bergson says that in the course of evolution sense
organs have been developed for purposes of self-preservation,
signalling the appearance of an object which may be useful
or harmful to us and inciting the self to direct its attention
upon it.
According to this view, every agent's characteristics and experi-
ences exist not only for it but, unconsciously, for all other entities
in the world. Hence it follows that stimulation of sense organs is
not a necessary condition of perception. It is useful for the satis-
faction of our ordinary daily needs, but in certain important cases
the perception of objects remote from us in space may take place
without the stimulation of the sense organs. Death, illness, or
danger threatening those dear to us affect us unconsciously even
though we be far apart, and, without any excitation of our sense
organs, may serve as a stimulus for us to direct upon those events
acts of awareness, attention, and discrimination.
Many people possess the faculty of bringing into their field of
consciousness, without the help of sense organs, events of lesser
moment that are of practical use to them. For instance, when
they go to bed they decide to v/ake up at a certain hour, and
actually do so ;
probably this is due, in many cases, to an extra-
sensory perception of the hands of the clock. Professor Rhine's
experiments have proved that even objects of no practical import-
^ See my Intuitive Basis of Knozvledge (English translation published
by Macmillan in 191 9), Sensuous, Intellectual and Mystical Intuition
(English translation published by the Russian University of Prague,
1934-8), and other books and articles.
1952] Extrasetisory Perception and Psychokinesis 705
ance may be extrasensorily perceived if attention be concentrated
upon them. Both extrasensory perception and precognition are
exphcable on the assumption of the unconscious bond between
the human self and the world as a whole. They become intel-
ligible if we give up the causal theory of perception and adopt the
co-ordinational, according to which even normal sense perception
is a kind of clairvoyance.
Precognition does not imply that time is unreal and that there
is no clear distinction between past, present, and future. We
contemplate past, present, and future as such because our self is
a supertemporal entity and therefore can direct its acts of intuition
upon any section of time.
The co-ordinational theory of knowledge is incompatible with
the positivistic view of causality, according to which the cause of
an event is the totality of events upon which it follows with neces-
sity. The champions of this view have lost the true conception
of causality, for they do away with the dynamic aspect of it and
retain only the temporal sequence, putting main emphasis upon
its regularity. A 'dynamic' theory of causality is more in keeping
with the facts of experience ; it is concerned with the creation of
an event, and regards temporal sequence as a derivative aspect of
the creative act. Events do not arise in time of their own accord,
but are produced by someone. Having a temporal form, they fall
away every instant into the domain of the past and are therefore
incapable of creating the future ;
only a supertemporal sub-
stantival agent can be the bearer of creative power manifesting
itself in time. Of course, a substantival agent creates a new event
on the basis of his former and his present experiences. Hence it
follows that we must distinguish between cause in the strict sense
of the term, and occasion : the cause, i.e. the creator of an event,
is always some substantival agent, and the 'occasion' are the cir-
cumstances in connexion with which an agent manifests its
creative power. Uniformity and necessity do not form part of
the idea of causality : no one has ever proved that an agent is
compelled with absolute necessity to repeat the same actions in
similar circumstances. The possibility of science does not in the
least require uniformity of causation : it is sufficient that events
should arise with a certain amount of regularity. In the lower
kingdoms of nature, studied by physics and inorganic chemistry,
this regularity reaches a considerable degree of uniformity and can
be expressed by statistical lazvs.
On this view of causality there is no need for us to account for
precognition by the strange assumption that the future causally
affects the present : the future simply provides the occasion for
us to direct an act of perception upon it. The co-ordinational
7o6 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [NOVEMBER
theory of knowledge leads to the conclusion that extrasensory per-
ception in all its varieties does not essentially differ from normal
sense perception, because in normal perception the activity of the
sense organs is only of secondary importance.
Let us now consider the problem of psychokinesis, and, to
begin Vv'ith, ask the general question as to whether psychical pro-
cesses can influence material processes. Take the simplest form
of material process, e.g. repulsion between two entities. Repul-
sion is only possible as push and counter-push made by two
agents, say, electrons A and B, in such a way that these two
actions arise absolutely simultaneously, have the same force, and
are carried out along the same line in opposite directions. Such
simultaneous mutual determination of two objects is placed by
Kant in his table of categories next to causality as a special cate-
gory of reciprocity [Wechsehvirkung). How are we to understand
the marvellous correspondence of the mutually opposed actions
of the two electrons? In order to explain it, we must distinguish
between the psychoid or psychical striving to make a particular
act of repulsion in a definite direction, and the actual realizaticn
of this striving as a material process in space. In the case of
mutual repulsion of two agents A and B the initiative may be-
long to A, in the form of a striving to repulse B ; in virtue of
the agents' consubstantiality this striving is unconsciously experi-
enced by B. If B reacts to it by a corresponding counter-striving,
the two agents may realize in space a miaterial process of mutual
repulsion with equal force along the same line in opposite
directions. Thus every mechanical process is psychoidly-mech-
anical or, at a higher stage of development, psychically-mech-
anical.
The dependence of material processes upon psychical in no way
conflicts with the law of the conservation of energy. The only
admission to be made is that the increase, say, of repulsion in one
direction, required for a particular purpose, is accompanied by a
decrease of repulsion in other directions so that the quantity of
energy remains the same. To use Hartmann's terminology
—
without having recourse to his conception of non-central forces
—
it can be said that the influence of the psychical factor results in
the transference of energy from one co-ordinate of space to
another, where it is needed for our purpose. Besides, if the mani-
festations of an agent's energies depend upon its own psychic or
psychoid states, it can be easily imagined that they may tempo-
rarily cease altogether, and the corresponding energy may pass
from actual to a potential state, or vice versa. This explains the
slowing down and the re-starting of material processes discussed
by Driesch.
1952] Extrasensory Perception and Psychokinesis 707
Nor does the doctrine here expounded conflict with the law of
inertia. According to this law a body can only change its state of
rest or motion under the influence of some force external to it.
If an animate body could begin or cease to move, or change the
direction of its movement solely through wishing to do so, the
law of inertia would be violated. Suppose that on hearing some
noise in the street I wanted to discover the cause of it, got up from
my chair, and walked to the window. If this change in the posi-
tion of my body Vv'ere wholly determined from within, by my wish
alone, this would certainly be contrary to the law of inertia. In
truth, however, we must distinguish between an inner striving to
make a movement—a psychical or a psychoid process—and the
external realization of this striving, i.e. the material process of
movement. When I want to rise from my chair and go to the
window, my striving to push my foot away from the floor is in-
tensified, but if the floor did not offer a corresponding resistance,
my movement would not take place.
The law of entropy, on this view, must be limited, at any rate
with reference to vital processes in plant and animal organisms.
To see the reason for this, consider the action of the human self
upon its body. By 'body' I mean here the totality of compara-
tively undeveloped agents allied with a highly developed agent,
the human self, and serving its purposes as its organs. The
human self embraces the life of its organism in one integral act of
experience, and is therefore able to co-ordinate the activity of the
difl:erent organs so that they work for one complex purpose and
for the good of the organism as a whole. Each cell of the organ-
ism, sympathetically participating in the life of the human self,
carries out the task assigned to it by the co-ordinative striving of
that self. Consequently the organism behaves purposively as a
whole, although many organs participate in its activities. With-
out using any energy the human self transform.s chaotic move-
ments into orderly ones, giving them, for instance, the same
direction ;
hence, vital processes often are of ectropic char-
acter. In the words of Driesch, our self really is 'Maxwell's
demon'.
Since a man's will is capable of influencing substantival agents
which form part of his body, it is possible that in certain cases
it also acts upon agents external to the body. They, too, are
consubstantial with the human self and therefore unconsciously
experience our strivings directed upon them ; and sometimes they
may comply with these strivings, or may react to them negatively.
In order to prove experimentally the influence of human will upon
the external world, we must direct our efforts of will upon potential
or actual personalities. Such experiments may be carried out
yoS Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [November
with unicellular organisms ; this was done, for instance, by Mr
Nigel Richmond in his experiments with paramecia.^
The above considerations show that the metaphysics of per-
sonalism combined with an intuitive theory of knowledge enable
us to regard paranormal phenomena as essentially akin to normal
:
both extrasensory and sensory perception are species of direct
contemplation of objects in the external world ; the action of our
will upon objects external to our body is explained in the same
way as its normal action upon our own body.
A totally different character must be ascribed to attempts of
influencing by will not personalities but material things, such as
dice. From the point of view of personalism a die consists of
potential personalities—atoms and molecules. But their combina-
tion in the die is only an aggregate and not an organic whole
headed by a potential personality which could be influenced by
our will. Accordingly, in this case we should have to exercise
command over millions of agents constituting the die ; and it is
extremely improbable that these millions should all together obey
our will. If Professor Rhine's experiments prove that human will
can affect the fall of the dice, this fact would have to be explained
in a different way than the influence of human will upon para-
mecia. The following hypothesis might provide an explanation :
the effort of will directed upon the falling die may be accompanied
by some sort of radiation proceeding from the body and acting
upon the die just as the human hand would act in pushing it. In
that case a paranormal event would be analogous to the normal.
J. G. PIDDINGTON AND HIS WORK ON THE
'CROSS-CORRESPONDENCE' SCRIPTS
By W. H. Salter
By the death in April of J. G. Piddington one of the last links with
the founders of the Society has been broken. J. G. Smith, as he
then was, joined the Society in 1890, and became a member of
Council in 1899. About this time he adopted his mother's sur-
name of Piddington, to avoid confusion with several other Smiths
^ 'Two Series of PK Tests on Paramecia', Journal of the Society for
Psychical Research, March-April 1952, pp. 577-88. I had thought that
experiments with potential personahties like electrons were not possible,
but I am informed by the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R. that these
could be done with an electronic computer or possibly a geiger-counter.
1952] J- G. Piddington and the 'Cross-Correspondence'' Scripts 709
then prominent in the Society. In the same year on the proposal
of Frederic Myers he became Hon. Secretary, acting jointly with
Myers until the latter's death in 1901 and resigning in 1907. He
was during his term of office closely concerned in two events of
importance to the Society ; first the creation in 1901 of the
Research Endowment Fund, of which he was for many years the
active Trustee ; and secondly the separation, after Richard
Hodgson's death in 1905, of the American Branch of the S.P.R.
and its transformation into the present American Society. Pid-
dington visited the United States and negotiated on behalf of the
S.P.R. the financial and other arrangements consequent on the
new state of affairs.
From 1917 to 1921 he was Hon. Treasurer. A successful
business man himself, he looked after the Society's finances with
especial care, nursing the Research Endowment Fund from very
small beginnings, so that in due time it might produce an income
sufficient to pay a salary for a full-time research officer with
qualifications and status equivalent to those of a university
research worker in any of the recognized branches of Science.
The income of the Fund grew indeed, but not, since the First
World War, as fast as the value of money declined, so that fifty
years after the Fund was started the Society still lacks an endow-
ment sufficient to enable it to make the most of present possibilities
of research.
For some years before the First War Piddington had been living
at Woking as a near neighbour of G. W. Balfour, and by 1920 he
had come to reside at Balfour's house. Fisher's Hill, where both
of them lived until after the outbreak of the Second War. Mrs
Sidgwick also made her home there about the same time, remain-
ing there until her death in 1936. So it came about that for the
period between the end of the First War and the Society's Jubilee
in 1932, three leading members of the Council, Mrs Sidgwick,
G. W. Balfour, and Piddington were in close contact with each
other, living for most of that period in the same house, and were
thus well placed to give the Society the strong central direction
which in those critical times it needed.
Critical they were because the three principal founders of the
Society, Sidgwick, Myers, and Gurney, were all long since dead
and had become mere names to a large portion of the membership.
Hodgson and Podmore, who had from early days been closely
associated with them, had died before the War, and during the
War the breakdown in Alice Johnson's health had compelled her
to resign the post of Research Officer. The War had brought a
large influx of new members, many of whom knew nothing of the
past history of the Society or its standards of investigation, ap-
yio Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [NOVEMBER
proached some of our problems emotionally and uncritically, and
were easily beglamoured by reports of astounding successes
obtained in mushroom institutions with grandiloquent titles.
How easily in such conditions spreads the complaint,
'AH old, nothing new?
Only the usual talking through the mouth.
Or writing by the hand? I own, I thought
This would develop, grow demonstrable.
Make doubt absurd, give figures we might see.
Flowers we might touch . . .
The Pennsylvanians gained such. . .
.'
How seductive, even to persons with less excuse than Mr Sludge,
the example of Tennsylvania', or its twentieth-century counter-
parts! Attempts were made, and not without influential backing,
to force the S.P.R. on to a 'positive' doctrinal basis, to substitute
showmanship for research, and, failing all else, to split the Society,
but they all broke on the rock of Fisher's Hill.
There might be a risk in any society that so close a combination
of Elder Statesmen would confine the society's activities to those
in which the Elder Statesmen had a special interest. Nothing of
that sort happened with the Fisher's Hill group. Their own
interest was at this time centred on the 'mental' phenomena—
trance-mediumship of Mrs Leonard's type, automatic writing,
'phantasms', experimental telepathy—and much research on those
lines was being carried out during the period. But a glance at our
Proceedings or Journal will show that 'physical' mediumship was
at the same time being investigated with as much vigour as at any
period of the Society's history.
Piddington was President for the years 1924-5, and retired from
the Council in 1932 after more than thirty years' membership of
it. He continued to be an active member of the Committee of
Reference until 1940.
Valuable as were his administrative services to the Society, it is
his part in interpreting the scripts of the 'S.P.R. group of auto-
matists' that calls for special notice. This was the task of a team
that included Mrs Sidgwick, Oliver Lodge, Alice Johnson, and
G. W. Balfour, but the main work fell on Piddington, and increas-
ingly so as ill-health or advancing years compelled the withdrawal
of the others. This is not the time or the place to attempt a final
appraisement of the significance of the scripts, but it may be a
convenient occasion to remind members of the general character
of a piece of work on a larger scale perhaps than any other under-
taken by our Society, and of a kind that has not been and could
not have been undertaken by any other body.
1952] J. G. Piddington and the 'Cross-Correspondence' Scripts 711
The problem that faced the interpreting group may be shortly
stated thus. For about thirty years from 1901 onwards a round
dozen of automatists, many but not all of them members of the
Society, produced well over three thousand 'scripts', a word given
for convenience an extended meaning to include not only pieces
of automatic or inspirational writing, but also records of trance
utterance, inspirational speech, and impressions received in
sleep or waking or various states between. At an early stage it
was noted that there were connexions between the scripts of dif-
ferent autom.atists, and also between them and the records of
sittings with Mrs Piper, that appeared to be neither fortuitous nor
due to normal association between them. These were the simpler
'cross-correspondences'. The connexions were usually made
through the recurrence of the same phrase, quotation from the
same literarj^ source, or insistence on the same topic.
As the result of wider and closer study it was noted that the
cross-correspondences interlocked with each other in such a way
as to make a pattern covering a very large portion of the script
material. As integral parts of the pattern were found (i) refer-
ences to verifiable facts which were certainly not within the con-
scious knowledge of the automatist at the time they were made
and had, so far as could be ascertained, never been within his or
her normal knowledge, and (2) predictions relating both to public
and private matters. Was it possible, by any rational and con-
sistent method of interpretation, to establish what the pattern
was, how it came into existence, and whether it conveyed any
particular meaning?
This would have been a stiff enough job if the interpreters had
been set to work on a final, complete set of scripts, in neatly typed
fair copies, with all the quotations traced to their sources in half-
a-dozen literatures, all the personal allusions annotated, and every-
thing indexed. But in fact all the searching out of literary sources
and all the annotating and indexing had to be done while the
scripts were pouring out, and the interpreters had at the same time
to frame, with such assistance as they could derive from directions
in the scripts, canons of interpretation for a mass of material, dis-
connected, allusive, and symbolic. Further study made it almost
certain that the obscurity was often deliberate and designed to
prevent either automatist or interpreter from guessing the drift
before what the script-intelligence, to use a non-committal term,
considered the appropriate moment. In the Introduction to his
paper in Volume XXXIII of Procee(fm^5 (pp. 439-60) Piddington
gave a brief and lucid account of the principles on which he and
his fellow-interpreters had worked. The work had been mainly
done by him and Balfour in consultation, but no progress could
712 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [November
have been made in it without the index, the compilation of which
fell almost entirely upon him.
It was a task calling for infinite patience, tireless industry, and
scrupulous accuracy in detail, in all of which Piddington was
highly gifted. If there was the smallest variation in the form in
which a quotation occurred in different scripts, any slight mis-
spelling of a name or error as to a date, Piddington was down on
it at once. The slip might, so far as the automatist's conscious
mind was concerned, be unintentional, but possibly it might be
a device of the script-intelligence, as I have called it, to attract
special attention to the passage where it occurred. Above all,
having fixed his rules of interpretation he was prepared to follow
them to their logical conclusions, even if it meant attributing to
the script-intelligence intentions of a surprising kind and, as
regards details of the pattern, meanings repugnant to his own
robust common-sense. For it must be emphasized that he was
not at all a cranky or eccentric person. Apart from psychical
research, he conformed very closely in manner, opinions, and
interests to the typical Englishman of his age and education.
Fortunately, perhaps, although he was well-informed and well-
read on many subjects, he had no special leaning towards poetry,
so that in tracking down the sources of the many poetic quota-
tions with which the scripts overflow, he had to move from step
to step by careful study and had no temptation to jump to con-
clusions.
What, it may be asked, was the net result of all this labour and
ingenuity? To put it at the lowest, the interpreters produced
order out of chaos, so that when they had done their work nearly
the whole of the enormous mass of scripts fitted into a coherent
pattern of which they had no conception when they started their
labours
—
nearly the whole, that is to say, apart from exhortations
to the automatists and interpreters and discussions as to experi-
mental methods, which of course lie outside the pattern ; and
even when these are excluded there remain passages where the
interpreters confessed themselves unable to discover a coherent
meaning.
It would of course be easy enough for an unscrupulous inter-
preter to select tit-bits here and there from so large a mass,
arrange them arbitrarily, interpret them according to the caprice
of the moment, and thereby obtain any pattern he pleased. Those,
needless to say, were not the methods of Balfour or Piddington
or any of their fellow-workers. That so many pieces of the puzzle
fitted neatly into place to produce an elaborate design incorporat-
ing many details that, considered by themselves, are extremely
odd, seems to me strong evidence that the design really is
1952] J. G. Piddingtoji and the 'Cross-Correspondence' Scripts 713
there, and is not the product of the interpreters' fantastic
ingenuity.
Nor can it be assigned to the normal knowledge of each others'
scripts acquired by the different automatists, e.g. through reading
Proceedings, where several scripts were from time to time pub-
lished, nor yet to rational inference based on such knowledge.
Of the principal members of the group 'Mrs Holland' (Mrs
Fleming) died without knowing even the main outlines of the
pattern ; Mrs Stuart Wilson does not know them yet ; Mrs
Verrall only learnt them from Piddington after most of her scripts
had been written, and was with difficulty persuaded to accept his
account ; and my wife was equally hard to persuade when
informed after her own scripts had ceased.
The choice seems to lie between three hypotheses, all para-
normal, separately, or perhaps in some combination of them. To
begin with the hypothesis involving the smallest departure from
views acceptable to most psychical researchers, it might be argued
that some person consciously or subconsciously designed the
pattern and contrived to distribute it by telepathy among the
members of the group, each of whom reproduced in his scripts
the portion allotted to him. Those who incline to this view
generally cast Mrs Verrall for the principal part, as she was the
earliest of the group, and had the literary knowledge sufficient for
producing the pattern as we have it. On the other hand she had
no normal knowledge of some of the facts woven into the pattern,
and the pattern went on unfolding itself for many years after her
death in 1916. It should be noted that even this hypothesis,
which may be taken as the minimum worth discussion, postulates
telepathy of a kind very different from anything established or
suggested by quantitative or qualitative experiment.
This same difficulty attaches to the second hypothesis, which
is that the pattern was created by the subconscious minds of the
automatists, acting as a group with a collective character that per-
sisted notwithstanding the death or retirement of some of its
members and the accession of others. This meets the difficulty
as to the development of the pattern after 191 6, but raises pro-
blems of its own, particularly as regards the implication of col-
lective constructive activity on a very large scale carried on entirely
at the subconscious level.
The third hypothesis is that the pattern was devised by some
intelligence or group of intelligences external to the group of
automatists, and, more specifically, by a group of communicators
including Sidgwick, Myers, and Gurney, with each of whom some
of the scripts claim to originate. This was the view that after
prolonged study all the principal interpreters accepted, although
A3
714 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [NOVEMBER
several of them were not lightly persuaded to accept it. Pidding-
ton's natural scepticism was reinforced by a personal dislike,
which he expressed to me, for the idea of surviving ; but this did
not prevent his accepting the survivalist view which he main-
tained in his paper in Volume XXXIII of Proceedings.
It may be doubted, however, whether Balfour, Piddington, and
the other interpreters would have been willing to devote the
immense amount of time and labour that the elucidation of the
scripts demanded, if the sole object of the scripts had been to
establish the survival and identity of the ostensible communi-
cators. That was only the first stage in the declared purpose of
the script-intelligence. The declared ultimate purpose is the
creation of a universal and durable order of peace between nations
and between classes, in the promotion of which the communicat-
ing group is, with many other persons, represented as engaged.
This, one need hardly say, is an ideal that has appealed to many
people at many times, and occasional references to it might have
been expected in the scripts of automatists whose outlook on life
was that of the members of 'the S.P.R. group'. When found
there, they would have called for no particular notice. What
struck the interpreters as significant was the prominence given to
this topic in the whole mass of scripts, the persistence with which
it is dwelt on from their beginning in 1901, and the peculiar way
in which it is woven into a pattern embodying various paranormal
features, cross-correspondences, verifiable statements of facts not
normally known to the automatist making them, and predictions
of public and private events, of which some had in the inter-
preters' opinion been fulfilled.
All this seemed to warrant their belief that they were in touch
with discarnate intelligences having power to influence the actions
of living men and women and foresee future events, and using
that power to promote an enterprise of immense importance for
the welfare of mankind. Holding that belief they were willing to
spare neither time nor labour year after year in clearing up every
doubtful point connected with the scripts, and to put the result
of their labours in an orderly permanent form, so that, if the pre-
dictions were fulfilled, it should be beyond dispute exactly what
the predictions were, when they were made, and from whom they
claimed to come.
'These all died . . . not having received the promises.' The
interpreters never supposed that they would receive them during
their lives. But Piddington, the last survivor of them by several
years, told me in the autumn of 1950 that though he was sure
that the predictions had been correctly interpreted, the continued
deterioration in world affairs had for some time made him wonder
1952] y. G. Piddington and the ^Cross-Correspondence^ Scripts 715
whether the communicators and their associates had not under-
taken more than they could perform. No precise date for fulfil-
ment is given in the scripts, but the suggestion is certainly made
that a beginning at least would take place in the lifetime of persons
living at the date of the First War. It seems to me desirable that
this should be stated now, without waiting for the predictions to
be fulfilled by the course of events, or falsified by the lapse of time.
As I have already said, this is not the occasion to attempt a
final appraisement of the scripts, and when the occasion does
arise the attempt should be made by someone with a fuller know-
ledge of the whole of the scripts than I can claim. But I have
read carefully more than half of them and, so far as concerns the
material I have read, I am prepared to accept the interpreters'
construction of it as substantially correct, even as regards points
where the eccentricity to be expected in any work of complex
symbolism might appear to have been given very free scope. But
just as in ordinary life two people telling the same story with every
desire to be accurate will each tell it from a different angle, so
with the automatists of 'the S.P.R. group'. For example, all the
scripts claim to be inspired by persons who have survived bodily
death, and there is general agreement among the automatists as to
who these persons are, but with some of the automatists they are
presented in a highly individualised dramatic form, with others
the emphasis is on what 'they '
say and do, on their collective
and, perhaps, inter-personal activity. It has sometimes seemed
to me that in this and in other connexions the interpreters have
overstressed the personal aspect, and that the cause of this may
have been that with both Balfour and Piddington their subtle
powers of reasoning were not tempered by psychic faculties, so
that, quick as they were to discern what was or was not significant
in substance, they were prone to accept too literally the dramatic
form with which the substance was clothed. I hesitate, however,
to bring even this minor criticism against a piece of work on so
great a scale as the interpretation of the scripts, and one carried
out with so much toil and skill.
On the other hand, Piddington had in full measure two indis-
pensables for psychical research, human sympathy and a sense of
humour. Because of his sympathy and his obvious trustworthi-
ness and discretion, whenever, as often happened, it was necessary
to verify some personal allusion in the scripts, he had no difficulty
in getting people to answer questions as to their private affairs or
to allow him to inspect their confidential diaries. His keen sense
of humour made him a delightful companion and correspondent
as soon as one penetrated his natural shyness and the reserve that
went with it.
ll
7i6 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [November
The poor health from which he suffered for many years did not
prevent his deriving much quiet enjoyment from country hfe,
golf and music, all of which he found at Fisher's Hill. From the
windows of his book-lined study there he could enjoy delightful
views of garden, woodland, and down, and there, whenever
scripts became a weariness to the flesh, he could console himself
at the piano, which he played very well. But above all Fisher's
Hill gave him the company of like-minded friends. The last few
years of his long life were spent in his daughter's charming house
overlooking the Bristol Channel.
ICHTHYOSIS TREATED BY HYPNOSIS
Students of psychical research are familiar with claims that con-
ditions resistant to normal medical treatment have been cured or
relieved by 'psychic' means, by religious faith, or by a combina-
tion of the two. Thorough investigation of these claims is much
more difficult than would appear at first sight, but most experi-
enced psychical researchers—and certainly the medical profession
—would attribute the results to suggestion applied to functional
disorders of psychological origin. This view is supported by the
absence of evidence that a congenital condition of an organic
nature has been cured or relieved by suggestion alone. It is for
this reason that a recent report in the British Medical Journal has
aroused such interest.^ The following condensation is printed
by permission of the Editor of the British Medical Journal and of
the author, Dr A. A. Mason, Senior Registrar, Queen Victoria
Hospital, East Grinstead.
The patient, a boy of sixteen, suffered from congenital ichthy-
osis ('Crocodile Skin'), a condition whose aetiology is unknown
and which is regarded as resistant to all forms of treatment.
'The lesion', writes Dr Mason,
consisted of a black horny layer covering his entire body except his
chest, neck, and face. The skin was papuliferous, each papilla pro-
jecting 2-6 mm. above the surface, and the papillae were separated
from each other by only a very small distance, perhaps i mm. The
papillae themselves varied in size from small thread-like projections
'
A. A. Mason, M.B., B.S., 'A Case of Congenital Ichthyosiform
Erythrodermia of Brocq Treated by Hypnosis', British Medical Journal,
No. 4781, 23 August 1952, pp. 422-3.
1952] Ichthyosis treated by Hypnosis 717
on the abdomen, back, and flexor surfaces of the arms to large warty
excrescences 5 mm. across on the feet, thighs, and palms. The small
amount of skin which was visible between the papillae was also black,
horny, and fissured. To the touch the skin felt as hard as a normal
finger-nail, and was so inelastic that any attempt at bending resulted
in a crack in the surface, which would then ooze blood-stained serum.
In the skin flexures there were fissures which were constantly being
reopened by movement and were chronically infected and painful.
The ichthyosiform layer, when cut, was of the consistence of cartilage
and was anaesthetic for a depth of several millimetres.
The condition varied in severity in different areas of the body, being
worst on the hands, feet, thighs, and calves, and least on the upper
arms, abdomen, and back. The skin on the face, neck, and chest
appeared normal, although, as is shown later, it became papuliferous
when transplanted to the palms. . . . The patients parents are alive
and well, and there was no family history of ichthyosis. His birth was
normal, after an uneventful pregnancy.
After treatment at various hospitals without avail, on 25 May
1950 skin from the chest was grafted to the palms of both hands
by Mr F. T. Moore, consulting plastic surgeon to the Queen
Victoria Hospital, East Grinstead, but within a month it had
become indistinguishable from the rest of the affected skin. A
second attempt at grafting the palms two months later produced
the same result, with the added complication of severe contrac-
tures of the fingers. Sir Archibald Mclndoe and other plastic
surgeons who saw the patient agreed that further grafting opera-
tions were unlikely to be successful, and that no alternative
plastic procedure was possible.
Under hypnosis on 10 February 195 1 the patient was given the
suggestion that the left arm would clear. ^ (The suggestion was
limited to the left arm so as to exclude the possibility of spon-
taneous resolution.) 'About five days later', says Dr Mason,
the horny layer softened, became friable, and fell off'. The skin under-
neath was slightly erythematous, but normal in texture and colour.
From a black and armour-like casing, the skin became pink and soft
within a few days. Improvement occurred first in the flexures and
areas of friction, and later on the rest of the arm. The erythema
faded in a few days. At the end of 10 days the arm was completely
clear from shoulder to wrist. . . . The right arm was treated in the same
way (see Figs, la and ib and ten days later the legs (see Figs. 2a
and zb ;
yi and 3^) and trunk were treated.
^ Dr Mason informs us that the treatment was carried out by him.
^ The photographs are not reproduced here.
7i8 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [November
The result of the treatment is shown in the report as follows :
Region Before Treatment After Treatment
Hands
Arms
Back
Buttocks
Thighs
Legs and feet
Completely covered
80% covered
Covered, but only lightly
Heavily covered
Completely and heavily covered
Completely and heavily covered
Palms clear. Fingers
not greatly im-
proved
95% cleared
90% cleared '
'
•
60% cleared
70% cleared
50% cleared
During the first few weeks of the treatment, 'clearance of the
affected areas was rapid and dramatic', but 'during the last few
months there has been no appreciable change. There has, how-
ever, been no relapse of the improved areas over a period of one
year.'
REVIEWS
Father Thurston. A Memoir with a bibliography of his writ-
ings. By Joseph Crehan, S.J. London, Sheed & Ward,
1952. vii, 235 pp. I2S. 6d.
The Physical Phenomena of Mysticism. By Herbert Thurs-
ton, S.J. Edited by J. H. Crehan, S.J. London, Burns
Oates, 1952. viii, 419 pp. 35s.
Padre Pio da Pietrelcina. By C. C. Martindale, S.J. {The Month,
June 1952. pp. 348-57.)
When Fr Thurston died in 1939 the English Jesuits lost one of
the most distinguished members of the Society and Roman
Catholics in England their greatest expert in psychical research.
He was a tireless worker and his first ticket of admission to the
British Museum Reading Room was dated 1880. During the
latter years of his life I used to meet him constantly as we both
laboured under the dome, and we were often in consultation over
controversial points, and sometimes combined in an innocent
plot to persuade the authorities to buy some rare book which we
both needed and thought should be added to the shelves.
Fr Crehan's memoir is an admirable sketch of Thurston's life
and activities and throws a vivid light on the course of his mental
development and outlook. His interest in psychical research was
1952] Reviews 719
early aroused, and in 1899 George Tyrrell wrote to him saying
that Everard Feilding wanted him to go to hear the ghostly choir
at Slindon since the S.P.R. was not welcome 'because they deal
in devils'. Nevertheless, Tyrrell tried to persuade Thurston to
join the Society at the same time as himself, but it was not till
much later that he did so, and in 1921 read a paper on the pheno-
mena of stigmatization.
In his discussion of Fr Thurston's many controversies Fr
Crehan has, in the main, succeeded in being as objective as could
be expected, although his lapse in printing the utterly unfair and
untrue attack on the late Dr G. G. Coulton (p. 1153) is to be
regretted. It is true that the latter's clash with Fr Thurston was
one of the bitterest moments of his controversial career, but his
defence of Lea was doubtless influenced by his belief in Lord
Acton's judgment and his opinion (which I did my best to shake)
that Fr Thurston was far from being the doughty adversary that
I knew him to be.
In his treatment of Thurston's psychical interests Fr Crehan
is wary, although he reveals the fact, hitherto quite unknown to
me, that Thurston visited Naples in 1925 to see the liquefaction
of the blood of St Januarius, a phenomenon to which he and I
had devoted a good deal of attention. For reasons which have
never been explained neither he nor any other authority has, to
my knowledge, attempted to deal in detail with the so-called
exposure which was published in the Hibbert Journal in 1921, and
all my recent attempts to obtain information from Catholic
sources have met with no success.
Apart from a few minor errors, such as 'Douglas' Home, Mrs
'Woodhiir and that Fr Thurston joined the S.P.R. in '1919', Fr
Crehan's biography is an excellent introduction to the work of a
man whose book. The Physical Phenomena of Mysticistn, to which
I will now turn, is the most brilliant and fascinating account of
the phenomena of the Saints ever written. In editing the work,
however, it is a pity that Fr Crehan has not given the precise
history and date of each of the papers of which this book is a
collection, as since he is not sufficiently acquainted with the sub-
ject, it is often impossible to determine whether Fr Thurston
omitted to discuss relevant material or whether such material was
published after the paper itself had been printed.
The 'oook itself is a mine of information on the alleged physical
phenomena associated with various holy persons. In dealing with
these extraordinary manifestations Fr Thurston displays a wide
acquaintance with the different sources, and usually estimates the
degree of credence to be placed upon them with considerable
acumen. Some of his criticisms and exposures will come as a
720 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [November
shock to those unaccustomed to weighing evidence ; and the
objectivity with which he treats the material cannot fail to com-
mend itself to the psychical researcher, especially since he states
that some of the evidence as printed in the Processes is 'notably
better attested' than any to be found in the Proceedings of the
S.P.R.
Among the phenomena discussed and documented in this
volume will be found levitations, the stigmata, telekinesis, fire-
tests, bodily elongation, the alleged absence of rigor mortis and the
usual signs of corruption, and some remarkable cases of living
without eating. For levitation a number of instances are adduced,
some of which are very difficult to explain away, although I find
it hard to understand why Fr Thurston, in trying to show that
these phenomena were still noted as occurring in the nineteenth
century, should quote the quite unacceptable cases of Marie
Baourdie (d. 1878) and of Maria della Passione (d. 191 2), neither
of which have, I think, the slightest evidential value.
Among all the remarkable phenomena recorded by Fr Thurston
it is, to say the least, somewhat suggestive that many of the
mediumistic phenomena regarded by psychical researchers as
almost certainly fraudulent are scarcely to be found among those
recorded by hagiographers, materializations being confined, so it
would seem, to the very curious cases of the alleged multiplication
of food, which phenomena Thurston thinks cannot be lightly
dismissed, although he agrees that the evidence is often inadequate
to sustain them.
To anyone acquainted with the works of such writers as Schram,
Gorres, Ribet, Poulain, or Saudreau, this book must come as a
surprise. For it illustrates the changes in the viewpoint of intel-
ligent and informed Catholics in these matters better than any
work I know. For not only was Thurston both chercheur et
critique in theology, as the head of the BoUandists called him, but
a man who knew it to be his duty to make himself informed on
what psychical research was doing undeterred by the ill-informed
gossip about the devils and the S.P.R. It was this comparative
survey which enabled him to treat many mystical phenomena as
examples of conditions common in psychopathology and having
nothing supernatural or miraculous about them.
It must be realized that, to the Catholic, the supernatural is of
two main types : {a) the essential supernatural which is not open
to scientific scrutiny and is the object of faith, and {b) the modal
supernatural or more simply the marvellous. Thus the stigmata
and various alleged diabolic manifestations belong to the modal
supernatural in certain cases, fact of which can be established
by science, but of which the explanation is not to be sought on
1952] Reviews 721
material grounds. Thus, in order to determine the truly mar-
vellous, all natural explanations must be eliminated. It is pre-
cisely here that we can see how grave differences of opinion are
likely to arise in, for example, cases of diabolic possession where,
to use the words of a recent writer in the Etudes Carmelitames, 'le
monde ecclesiastique n'est spontanement que trop porte, en cette
matiere, a une credulite naive', and where the imprudent and
ill-considered action of certain priests is liable to do harm rather
than good to the psychotic subject. Thus in the case of the
stigmata, which psychical researchers have for long regarded as
closely connected with hysterical and neurotic states (which con-
ditions, in their relation to mysticism, had already been discussed
by Fr G. Hahn in 1883), Thurston was insistent on the fact that
hardly any cases are known where nervous disorders had not
appeared before the development of the wounds, and indeed, he
went so far as to say that he would like to hear of one case of a
stigmatica who had no bad family history. In view of the pre-
valence of hysteria in the conditions under which women were
formerly brought up, he pointed out how, during the last seven
centuries, female stigmatics vastly outnumber the male, of which
only two clear cases seem to have been recorded in which all the
five wounds were externally observable. Although this dispro-
portion is more than once mentioned by Thurston, it does not
seem to have occurred to him that this is possibly due to the fact
that the object of concentration and worship is male, and that it
is this sexual element which is mainly responsible, a supposition
supported by the cases of the very curious espousal rings which
he describes in Ch. Ill, and by the fact that, at least in one case,
a stigmatica, having happily married, was no longer stigmatized.
Although Thurston admits a number of instances of imposture
among those with whom he deals, he has been clearly very careful
to avoid any account of the more flagrant cases (such as the Holy
Bambino of Bari) which were supported by high ecclesiastical
authorities presumably for the benefit of those unable to detect
or to expose the fraud.
In dealing with cases of stigmata prior to St Francis, Fr Thurs-
ton comments very unsympathetically on the English case of the
early thirteenth century where Merkt claimed a genuine example
of stigmatization, but which, as seems fairly clear, was a case of
crucifixion and self-inflicted wounds, which is actually stated to
have been so in the Annals of Dunstable and by Ralph of Cogges-
hall. That this is not the explanation in the modern case of
Padre Pio seems to be certain, judging from the admirably con-
cise account by Fr C. C. Martindale in the June 1952 issue of
The Month. The extreme caution displayed by the Holy Ofliice
722 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [November
in this case is clearly due to the influence of more modern views
of the nature of the stigmata and their close connexion w^ith
psychopathological factors operating in the subject. What must
strike the non-Catholic as so odd is that it does not seem to have
occurred to some of the ecclesiastical authorities that, just as it is
affirmed that the devil can profit by functional disequilibrium to
gain influence over a sufferer and, indeed, cannot exert his powder
without such mental and nervous trouble being present, so
God might exert His power in the formation of the stigmata only
in persons whose psychological make-up lends itself to such
Divine interference. From this point of view the stigmata of
Padre Pio can be clearly classed as supernatural. This caution on
the part of the Holy Office can, perhaps, be linked with the
clarification of the views of Fr Thurston concerning the stigmata
which were due to his study of the alleged production of such
marks on the Austrian peasant woman by the Lutheran physician,
Alfred Lechler, in 1932. Apparently Thurston accepted this
story as conclusive proof that 'stigmata' could be produced solely
through suggestion, and his acceptance is yet another indication
of his increasingly credulous attitude when examining medical
testimony concerning unusual physiological and psychological
phenomena. This tendency, now becoming increasingly common
among well-informed Catholics, is due to the fact that they
deliberately cut themselves off from any practical experience of
the phenomena with which they are dealing. Relying on printed
sources they have little or no acquaintance with the true nature of
the facts described, and thus are apt to credit tales of events which,
had they actually been present, they would at once have seen had
but little resemblance to the description given later by enthusi-
astic and untrained witnesses.
Towards the end of his life Fr Thurston became more and more
prone to believe the stories of spiritualistic phenomena printed in
presumably reputable journals, and my oft-repeated words of
caution merely seemed to him to be the product of an unreasoning
scepticism. With his acceptance of much of the Margery pheno-
mena, even after the thumb-print controversy, he showed that
even his critical mind had failed to resist the barrage of suggestion
and display of pseudo-science which was becoming one of the
most marked features of psychical research and which, once under-
stood, was to lead many orthodox scientific men to doubt the
validity of almost everything that came out of the parapsychological
laboratories. That Fr Thurston failed to see through what lay
beyond was another proof, if any were needed, of the goodness,
simplicity, and faith which inspired him. His book is not only
the achievement of a scholar and critic which, for the first time.
1952] Reviews 723
offers the evidence for the phenomena of the saints in an accept-
able form, but the work of a very human and lovable personality
to whom I am grateful for having been allowed to share, in how-
ever slight a degree, in the controversies and problems to which
so many years of both our lives have been devoted.
E. J. Dingwall
Telepathy and Spiritualism : personal experiments, experi-
ences and views. By J. Hettinger. London, Rider, 1952.
150 pp. Illus. i6s.
This book covers a number of substantially unrelated topics
and includes much that has already been published. Ch. VII, for
example, gives Dr Hettinger's views on 'telepathy v clairvoyance',
which were printed in S.P.R. Proceedings for June 1946. Ch. XI
is a record of mediums' impressions collected by Dr Hettinger
relating to the as yet unopened envelope left by the late Sir Oliver
Lodge. Ch. X gives Dr Hettinger's views on Spiritualism, to-
gether with his account of the personal experiences with mediums
that have made him a believer in communication with spirits.
In Ch. I there is a discussion of the 'handicaps in the search for
truth' deriving from 'the limitations of the field of mental vision'
and 'our personal mental worlds'. A prominent feature of this
chapter is the 'integrated diagram' (circular) of 'our personal
mental worlds' in which there are assigned positions (segmental)
to the realms of 'nature', 'mind and spirit', 'human relations', and
so forth. It is interesting to juxtapose this with the comment in
the following chapter that Whately Carington had a weak spot for
philosophy.
Several chapters are a summary of Dr Hettinger's previously
published investigations in object-reading. It is unnecessary to
say much about this, since his two books on the subject. The Ultra-
Perceptive Faculty (1940) and Exploring the Ultra-Perceptive
Faculty (1941), have both been reviewed already in this Journal,
and in addition the whole research has been analysed by Chris-
topher Scott in S.P.R. Proceedings for November 1949. Briefly,
the method is to present mediums with personal objects and col-
lect impressions from them which are supposed to relate to the
owners of the articles. Dr Hettinger adopted various control
devices. For instance, he would pair all the items given by the
medium in connexion with one article with items given in con-
nexion with other articles in order to find out if the owner would
be able to identify that member of each pair which was actually
intended to relate to him.
Experiments of this type are not as easy to carry out objectively
724 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [November
as they appear to be at first sight, and the methods of Dr Hettinger
made error Hkely. In some cases it seemed that the control items
were not of the same quaHty as the items with which they were
paired. Another difficuhy was the possibiHty of bias in selected
recording, since it was Dr Hettinger himself who sat with the
mediums and wrote down their statements, and in most cases he
knew the owners of the objects. There were also many elemen-
tary errors in the statistical evaluation tending to exaggerate the
significance of the results, which were already doubtful on grounds
of faulty experimental method.^
In Dr Hettinger's later work, the owners of objects looked at
magazine illustrations at the time of the tests, and the mediums'
impressions were supposed to relate to the content of these target
pictures. Dr Hettinger considered that the correspondences
obtained were self-evidently more than chance expectation, so
that no controls were needed. The coincidences illustrated in
Exploring the Ultra-Perceptive Faculty were certainly striking and
likely to convince an uncritical reader, but then they had been
selected from a large mass of material. The whole matter depended
upon Dr Hettinger's subjective judgment, and that this was not
altogether to be trusted is obvious because he seemed unable to
appreciate that some at least of the correspondences would have
occurred in the absence of telepathy. When he was prevailed
upon by the American S.P.R. to have some of his data, together
with some control material, scored by an independent judge, the
scores on the control material were no different from the scores
on the rest of the data. Christopher Scott also carried out an
experiment with Dr Hettinger and, unknown to the latter, he sub-
stituted control pictures for some of the illustrations that had been
used as targets in the usual tests. Dr Hettinger himself did the
scoring, and again there were as many correspondences on the
control pictures as on the others. A reasonable conclusion is that
Dr Hettinger judged wrongly, and that the results were no dif-
ferent from chance expectation.
In Ch. VIII Dr Hettinger describes a new development, the
attempt to transmit a code message by the use of his picture tests.
A prepared set of target pictures is made to stand for the code
words, and these are concentrated upon by an agent in the order
representative of the words of the message. As before, the sensi-
tive, at a distance, handles an object belonging to the agent. Her
impressions are recorded by the experimenter, who notes any
correspondences with the known target pictures and, from these
•The best available methods for the conduct and evaluation of object-
reading tests are described by Pratt and Birge, J. ParapsychoL, December
1948.
1952]
'
Reviews 725
correspondences, attempts to deduce the order in which the
targets were looked at and thence the words of the message. This,
of course, is an example of the use of pre-arranged targets in place
of free material, a method which in another chapter Dr Hettinger
condemns. It is a method which gives results that can readily be
assessed statistically, but the figures are not quoted. Dr Hettinger
tells us only that this method, and various modifications of it, all
proved inadequate for the transmission of messages. As the
evidence suggests that the previous results from picture tests were
on a level with chance expectation, this conclusion is not surpris-
ing. Dr Hettinger gives a number of plausible rationalisations to
explain his frustration.
It is a tragedy that years of efliort were wasted on these faulty
experiments. Chapter II reveals what is mainly responsible for
their failure : an attitude of puerile animosity towards other
investigators has prevented Dr Hettinger from seeking friendly
advice at an early stage and so forestalling criticism. Instead he
miaintains his lone though vulnerable eminence by simply ignoring
other people. It is typical of him that beyond the comment (p.
27) that other investigators have criticised his work as he criticises
theirs, he gives the reader not the slightest hint that much of his
research has been demonstrated to be ill-founded. His opinions
of the research of others make droll reading. He has a bee in his
bonnet about statistics, which he obviously does not grasp, so
that he finds himself unable to accept the results of card-calling
tests without an empirical control of randomly picked cards to
demonstrate the level of chance expectation (p. 24). If only he
had been as particular about his own picture tests! He condemns
both Rhine and Soal for using a fixed number of symbols instead
of 'free' material like drawings, but he is dissatisfied with Caring-
ton's work with drawings because the results were statistical and
the subjects were not specially selected sensitives. As for Dr
Rhine's PK hypothesis, he is 'ver}^ much surprised that the idea
was mooted at all . .
.'
(p. 26). I have a similar sentiment about
Dr Hettinger's hypothesis (Ch. VII) that cases of apparent pre-
cognition are due to the intervention of spirits. According to this
theor}' a spirit anticipates or brings about an action in individual
A. and at the same time gives individual B. an apparently pre-
monitory impression of A.'s future action.
I have deliberately left to the last consideration of Ch. IX,
because I believe it is the most important. In it there is a descrip-
tion of an ingenious new experiment designed to demonstrate the
long-distance telepathic transmission of emotions. An agent is
subjected at irregular intervals to painful or startling stimuli. The
sensitive is connected to an apparatus for recording the psycho-
726 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [November
galvanic reflex—that is, changes in electrical resistance of the skin
which coincide with emotional reactions. Deflections of the
galvanometer corresponding in time with stimulation of the agent
are held to indicate that the sensitive, subconsciously at least, is
reacting to the agent's emotion.
The experimental design is amenable to a simple statistical
control. The agent's stimuli are always given at exactly full
minute intervals from the moment of commencing On the
average there is a stimulus at one in three of the minute intervals
throughout the experiment. Whenever there is a galvanometer
deflection within a fifteen-second range around the minute
intervals this is counted as a reaction. It is stated that reactions
always occur more frequently at the minute intervals when there
is an agent stimulation than at the minute intervals when there
is no stimulation.
No detailed account of the experiment is given, and it may be
that randomisation of the times of agent-stimulation and other
obvious precautions may not have been taken. If so, the project
would be just one more example of a typical Hettinger experim^ent,
excellent in conception yet faulty in execution. Personally I am
optimistic. It would be an outstanding advance if this should
prove to be the long-awaited method of obtaining accurate ESP
responses by circumventing conscious inhibitions. I am sure we
all hope to find in the full report the fruitful and valid consumma-
tion of his labours which Dr Hettinger's persistence richly
deserves.
D. J. West
Where Two Worlds Meet : the verbatim record of a series of
nineteen seances with John Campbell Sloan, the famous
Glasgow direct voice medium. By Arthur Findlay. London,
Psychic Press, 1951. 624 pp. i plate. 12s. 6d.
Do spiritualists realize how much harm is done to their cause
by a claim, such as that made by the author on the cover of this
book, that 'No more conclusive evidence of survival is available'
than the reports of sittings he has printed ? If such a claim could
be substantiated, the case for survival would be very much weaker
than I believe it to be.
John Campbell Sloan, who died in May 195 1 while this book
was being printed, had practised as a medium for fifty years, and
Mr Findlay's acquaintance with him goes back more than thirty
years. It would naturally be distasteful to any living medium to be
forced into competition with another medium who has recently
died, but as Mr Findlay has made this claim it must be pointed
1952] Reviews 727
out that the communications recorded in this book were produced
under much less rigorous conditions than those recorded in the
case of several other mediums both living and dead. The sittings
with Sloan were held in a circle of about half a dozen, most of
whom on every occasion appear to have been regular sitters living
in the Glasgow area. He could hardly have failed in course of
time to have acquired normally much information about the
regular sitters and their friends and relations, living and dead.
The same was true of the Piper mediumship in its early stages,
and it was to avoid prejudicial inferences that might be drawn
from this fact that Mrs Piper was brought over to England, to sit
with persons about whom she had no previous knowledge. After
her return to the United States she was confronted with a very
large number of sitters quite unknown to her and often intro-
duced anonymously. Much more evidential value is to be
attached to communications received through a medium giving
sittings to single sitters who are frequently changing than to com-
munications given to a more or less constant circle.
The sittings recorded in this book took place at various times
between April 1942 and July 1945, when Sloan was already an
old man. Several times during the sittings he complained of feel-
ing tired, and it is probable that, whatever his psychic powers
may have been, they were already in decline. It is accordingly
the sitters, who seem to have been very easily satisfied, rather than
the medium, against whom criticism should be directed. Take,
for example, the incident reported on pp. 148-9 when the medium
said he had been looking at a photograph of the husband of Mrs
Lang, and that it was not very clear. A voice here interrupted,
'Yes, you lost the negative and it had to be taken off an old photo-
graph,' and persisted in this assertion nothwithstanding Sloan's
denial of all recollection of the incident. Mrs Lang, one of the
regular sitters, then exclaimed, 'Yes, that is right, Mr Sloan. I
remember you lost the negative and hunted all over for it. Who
is it who knows all about photos? It must be someone who knows
me very well.' So of course it was, as the incident had at one time
been perfectly well known to Sloan's conscious mind, and the
interruption is at best a dramatization of a lapsed memory.
It is stated that Sloan frequently spoke in foreign languages
'which sometimes could not be understood', but we are given very
few examples of foreign speech, whether understood or not.
Twice we are given two words of Gaelic, a language of which
Sloan probably knew something as his mother came from the
Highlands. There are four words of Latin, 'Ars longa. Vita
brevis,' a sufiiciently familiar tag, and a Danish communicator,
together with som^e broken English, spoke two words which are
728 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [November
apparently claimed as Danish. Another communicator 'started
to speak fluently in French', but we are not told whether any of
the sitters took part in the conversation, and if so whether the
communicator responded intelligently to their remarks, or whether
any of the circle knew French well enough to judge if the com-
municator's language and pronunciation were correct. Sloan had
at two periods of his life followed the sea and may very likely in
that way have acquired a smattering of the languages of two
countries with which we have as close commercial relations as
France and Denmark. What a pity that the Circle did not use a
recording machine so that the Danish and French could be played
over to persons familiar with those languages, and the Red Indian,
East Indian, and African Guides have been invited to make
records of their own languages which could have been submitted
to experts!
Two among the communicators gave the names of W. E.
Gladstone and J. M. Barrie, who in this life were notable for
intellectual gifts and powers of expressing themselves which they
appear to have lost when shuffling ofl^ this mortal coil (see pp. 119
and 176). In justice to Sloan it may be said that some of Mrs
Piper's Controls represented even less worthily the great names
they claimed.
Generally speaking, while the records are satisfactorily full as
to what was said at the sittings, the reader looks in vain for the
wealth of annotation by the sitter which gives value to the records
of Mrs Piper, Mrs Leonard, Miss Cummins, and other mediums
of their type. The absence of details of this kind puts this book
definitely on a lower level than the published records of these
mediums.
A characteristic of the Sloan mediumship, which distinguishes
him from these other mediums and appears to Mr Findlay to be
of crucial importance, is the association of physical phenomena,
such as the movement of trumpets, with the communications.
The sittings were held in complete darkness and Sloan was not
subjected to either manual or mechanical control. Mr Findlay
complains that the scientists of Glasgow University paid little
attention to Sloan's phenomena and did not employ infra-red
photography. One may fairly ask why Mr Findlay and his friends
did not employ this technique themselves, or if they felt they had
not the expert knowledge, why they did not pay somebody to
attend the sittings and do the necessary things on their behalf.
But is there any reason to suppose that Sloan would have agreed
to this? The infra-red telescope was not available for general
use at the time these sittings were being held, but it is not irrelevant
to note that since it has become available physical mediums are very
1952] Reviews 729
shy of it, although it is well known that the use of it makes unneces-
sary some of the other techniques of control which mediums
profess to find irksome. In the points, therefore, in which Sloan's
mediumship during the years 1942-5 can be compared with that
of such mediums as have already been mentioned, it falls far short,
while its distinctive features are, owing to the absence of control,
of no evidential value.
On pp. 342-3 Mr Findlay makes an attack on the Society which
calls for a brief comment. He says that in 1925 he suggested to
Sir William Barrett to put before the Society a proposal to investi-
gate Sloan in London, Mr Findlay paying the expenses. He con-
tinues, 'Sir William went to the next Council meeting and put
forward my offer. Much to his disappointment the Council
turned it down with neither an explanation nor an expression of
thanks, and, when he told me of its decision not to investigate
Sloan's mediumship, he was not only disappointed but angry.
That ended the matter and nothing was ever done. My reaction
was to resign my membership of the Society.' This is a charge
against the Society of failure to perform its duty as an investigat-
ing body, and also of discourtesy to Mr Findlay. As regards the
second and minor charge Barrett never laid the proposal formally
before the Council, although he consulted some of the Officers.
I remember very well hearing of the proposal, doubtless as being
then Hon. Treasurer. What report Barrett gave Mr Findlay of
his discussion with the Society's Officers I do not know, but if
there was any failure of courtesy it was certainly not on the part
of the Officers or Council.
The other charge is a more serious one. In bringing it Mr
Findlay should in candour have mentioned a very material condi-
tion that he attached to his proposal, namely that the Society
should engage Sloan as caretaker at Tavistock Square. While the
Officers of the Society had no reason to regard Sloan as per-
sonally untrustworthy, they did not consider it good policy to
allow a professional or semi-professional medium the free run at
all hours of the day and night of premises where a large amount
of highly confidential information was (and is) kept. Much of
this information has been entrusted to the Society precisely
because it could only come into the hands of officials specially
charged with the duty of secrecy. Any suspicion that a medium
has had access to material subsequently referred to in communica-
tions received through him or through any other medium goes far
to discredit any evidential value that might otherwise attach to
them. The best mediums realize that it is to their interest that
no such cause for suspicion should occur. In this respect they
show a better appreciation of evidential standards than Mr Findlay
730 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [November
who, when informed of the reason why his proposal had been
dechned, hght-heartedly brushed it aside.
Incidentally it may be mentioned that this incident occurred in
1923, not 1925, when the Society had no vacancy for a caretaker,
and that Mr Findlay's reaction to resign did not take effect until
1932.
W. H. S.
The Devil in Massachusetts : a modern enquiry into the Salem
witch trials. By Marion L. Starkey. London, Hale, 1952.
269 pp. lUus. i8s.
This 'modern enquiry into the Salem witch trials' fully deserves
the claims made for it by the publishers. It certainly 'combines
a narrative that has the pace and excitement of a novel' with 'an
authentic history of the Salem witch trials', and if the application
of 'modern psychiatric knowledge to the witchcraft hysteria' is
not very elaborate or profound, it is quite sufficient for the purpose
in hand. The primary purpose of the book is to present a clear
picture, as accurate as careful documentation can make it, of the
intense but short-lived outbreak of witch-hunting which swept
through Salem village and some of the surrounding districts in
1692. The phenomena, wholly unintelligible in that age, reveal
upon a tiny scale, for only twenty victims in all were put to death,
the astonishing effects of mass hysteria, such as held Europe for
three centuries at a cost of hundreds of thousands of lives. But
at Salem they took place in a community rigid alike in Calvinist
theology, in Puritan morality, and in a real desire for justice. The
very forces which produced the outbreak by driving a group of
adolescent girls into the self-display of hysterical convulsions, in
which they named the alleged witches who were supposed to be
tormenting them, were the forces which speedily led to its control.
The whole story is fully documented by court records as well as
by the contemporary writings of Cotton Mather and others
immediately concerned, and is here admirably told.
From the point of view of parapsychology the most striking fact
is the obvious honesty of all concerned, except perhaps the slave
Tituba who first awakened the hysterical symptoms in the children
who formed the original 'young people's circle'. Once the fever
of suspicion had spread every sort of story was believed, 'shapes'
were reported as acting anywhere and everywhere, and the visions
of hysterics completely outweighed the ordinary evidence of sober
people. One of the strangest figures of all is the grim Chief
Justice Stoughton, who seems to have been wholly sincere and
wholly free from hysteria, devoted to the one purpose of exter-
1952] Reviews 731
minating witches by strict process of law, and yet quite unable to
see the complete worthlessness of the evidence upon which his
judgments were based. And the fundamental religious strength
of a community has never been more fully demonstrated than by
the public pardoning of Ann Putnam, no longer a hysteric, and
her restoration to her place among them by the very relatives of
those whom her testimony had sent to the gallows.
But whether the ghost of Mary Esty really appeared to Mary
Herrick, and so won the day, the reader must judge.
L. W. Grensted
Borderlands of Science. By Alfred Still. London, Rider, 1952.
276 pp. 20s.
This work is in the main a potted history of the wax of science
and psychology and the wane of superstition, with the theme
extended very naturally to include a brief survey of the various
phenomena v/hich come under the heading of psychical research.
Unfortunately, one is left with the impression that most of the
information could have been equally well obtained by studying
jointly an encyclopaedia and a Who Was Who. But if Mr Still
adds little of his own to the general discussion, he does at any
rate point a very clear way to other sources of information.
He makes a bold, interesting, and praiseworthy effort to show
the error of science in rejecting out of hand those problems at
present beyond its normal specialized scope. But though repeat-
edly concerned over the fallibility of human judgement, the author
would nonetheless seem to have made up his own mind on the
strength of evidence that is left quite unexplained. Thus, when
we are told (p. 102) that 'Many careless people are sceptical about
a future existence ..." we search unrewardingly for an expansion
of view that Mr Still has been anything but careless to hide.
We cannot fail to appreciate his obvious sincerity, however
;
nor yet the unusual courage he displays in squirting Spiritualists,
scientists, astrologers, believers and unbelievers from the same
bottle of ink! Throughout this book the desire to be objective is
certainly unmistakable.
In spite of the fact that an interesting chapter on Body, Mind,
and Memory shows the author to be not entirely unfamiliar with
the complex problems of subconscious activity, the practical
importance of intuition is grossly overrated. However pure the
basic intuition may be, it can rarely if ever emerge into reflective
awareness without being modified by a very fallible subconscious.
While, therefore, we can study the results of supposed intuition,
the basic factor is itself a matter at present beyond the scope of
732 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [November
final objective pronouncement. In other words, intuition is
largely a private matter, and is far too unreliable to serve as a self-
sufficient aid to the establishment of any 'universal truth'.
Perhaps the author's failure to realize this explains his aversion
from controlled experiments in ESP, and his complete neglect of
Dr Soal! Thus, regarding quantitative experiments we read that
'Conclusions drawn from such data are not likely to impress the
scientist, especially if he is also a mathematician. Yet several
recent investigators have adopted similar methods in the belief
that the analysis of the accumulated data provides better evidence
of a telepathic faculty than the many plausible stories of spon-
taneous thought transmission' (p. 217). But overleaf, on the one
page devoted to Dr Rhine, Mr Still has this to say about the ESP
tests: 'These experiments also go a long way towards shattering
the generally accepted doctrine that nothing can enter the human
mind except by way of the recognized bodily senses.'
We are led to assume, therefore, that in the author's opinion,
only where the experimental and statistical method produces
relatively quick, favourable, and spectacular results is it admiss-
able!
The range of subjects in this book is, of course, such that per-
haps one could not reasonably expect a combined historical and
critical approach in 276 pages. We are introduced to witchcraft,
magic and superstition ; to faith-healing, time, and the subcon-
scious ; to the divining rod, levitation, and poltergeists ; to
Copernicus, Galileo, and Newton. So, no doubt inevitably, we
are left in the end to form our own acquaintanceships.
As I have said, this work is mainly a potted history. And judged
as such it can be readily recommended to those who are just
beginning to take an interest in the manifold problems of the
'paranormal'.
Thomas Greenwell
Journal of Parapsychology. Vol. 16, No. 2, June 1952.
Durham, N.C., Duke University Press. !$i.50.
The central place in this number of the Journal is taken by an
article by Professor Rhine on 'The Problem of Psi-missing'. The
fact that some subjects score consistently below mean chance
expectation while others drop below mean chance expectation at
a late stage of experimenting is a challenging observation, both
because of its practical inconvenience and its possible theoretical
implications. Professor Rhine has made a scholarly study of the
experimental evidence on the subject and focusses attention on
the problems it raises.
Reviews 733
Dr Gertrude Schmeidler has made a study of 'ESP Scores of
Patients suffering from General Concussion'. She finds that
eighteen concussion patients score better on ESP tests than the
general average. She suggests that this may not be a direct
result of the concussion, but of the relaxed and uncritical attitude
which results from concussion. Every study that suggests how
scores in ESP tests may be improved is to be welcomed, although
a less drastic way of inducing a relaxed attitude than knocking our
subjects on the head must still be used in our experimental work.
There are reviews of Ducasse's Nature, Mind, and Death by
Professor H. H. Price and of Rawclitfe's The Psychology of the
Occidt by Dr D. J. West.
R. H. Thouless
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research.
Vol. 46, No. 3, July 1952. New York, A.S.P.R. $1.50.
Communications on psychical research from South Africa are a
rarity and so welcome. May Bell of Rhodes University, Grahams-
town, in 'The Normal Function and Manifestation of Psi', postu-
lates a trisection of the self into 'Con', the conscious self, 'Uncon',
the Freudian Unconscious, and Psi (Thouless-Wiesner). By
definition Uncon and Psi are mutually exclusive.
Some of the arguments adduced by the author to support her
postulated framework seem to me to beg the question. Thus, of
dreams : 'Uncon's repressed desires are, apparently, the motive
of the dream, but what tidies it up into a nice unshocking story
that Con will cheerfully accept? Hardly Con, whose feelings are
being saved, scarcely Uncon, which we are led to think of as
wholly concerned with getting its desires across to Con. There
seems to be a censor, with some dramatic ability ; if this is neither
Con nor Uncon, unless we are to invent further entities, must it
not be psi?
'
The interesting paper on precognition by C. T. K. Chari
which appeared in the Journal of the S.P.R. for November-
December 1 95 1, is reprinted in slightly expanded form, and Mrs
Allison contributes a memoir of J. G. Piddington.
An exchange of letters between Dr Rhine and two Yale Univer-
sity psychologists is reprinted. Sheffield and Kaufman, the Yale
men, were reported in the New York Times (30 March 1952) as
having carried out a PK experiment by a Duke technique using
both human and photographic recording. According to Sheffield
and Kaufman, the camera showed that believers in PK tended
734 journal of the Society for Psychical Research [NOVEMBER
to make recording errors which inflated the scores while disbe-
hevers understated the scores. Rhine takes them to task, claiming
that their criticisms are irresponsible, inviting them to an open
forum to discuss the matter, and offering to publish their paper
in th-t Journal of Parapsychology. Sheffield and Kaufman decline
the invitation to a public debate, but promise their paper for
publication.
D. P.
CORRESPONDENCE
The Interpretation of ESP Experiments
Sir,—I wish to draw attention to a point regarding the logical
interpretation of ESP experiments, which appears to be generally
overlooked. The procedure used when we infer a causal relation
between two phenomena from a statistical experiment is as follows.
A set of experimental objects (say, plots sown with oats) is divided
at random into two or more subsets, each member of one subset
being treated in one way (say, with a certain fertiliser) and each
member of another subset in another way (say, with no fertiliser).
Then we measure every mem.ber of both groups in respect of some
chosen character (say, yield) and, treating the two sets of measures
as statistical 'populations', we can calculate the probability on the
given data that the differences between them are due merely to
the random segregation of the original set of objects into two
groups. If this probability is small enough, we feel confident
that the differences are not due to this cause but to the only other
difference ive have tnade, that is, to the dift'erent treatments. Pro-
vided the randomization has been properly carried out (and the
process involves various technical complications varying from one
experiment to another) we can attach a definite probability to the
validity of our conclusions.
Parapsychological experiments do not in general conform
exactly to this type. Their material is not divided into two groups,
of which one serves as a control ; the place of the control is taken
by an imaginary set of results obtained by purely random selec-
tion, and this selection is not really carried out but represented in
the calculations by the known statistical parameters of such series.
We have in effect two series of guesses, one made by a conscious
subject supposedly trying to obtain correct hits, the other by an
imaginary machine working with mathematical perfection as a
1952] Correspondence '735
randomizer. The positive results which have been obtained prove
that these two methods of guessing produce different results, and
in particular that a subject consciously attending to his guesses
will very often not be guessing at random even if he have no
sensory clue to guide him. That is obviously an interesting and
important conclusion. But it involves no more than an associa-
tion of phenomena, and gives no hint as to the causal relations.
For this, a proper control is needed.
The mathematical control in these experiments lacks at least
three factors present in the 'treated' runs : {a) the experimental
situation, {b) the act of conscious guessing, and {c) any special
mental faculty which may be involved. It is illogical to dismiss
{a) and (b) lightly ; the anecdotal evidence rather suggests that
the experimental situation may influence the results, and it needs
proof (however plausible it may appear) that a conscious subject
ca7i make a series of guesses statistically uncorrected with the
'targets'. A more radical possibility which really ought to be
ruled out by formal experiment is that the non-random runs are
primary and produced by chance, but that they in some manner
attract ESP experimenters ;
put thus, it sounds rather fantastic,
but it is really no more contrary to our accustomed habits of
thought than is precognition, widely accepted as an alternative
but narrower hypothesis.
I am unable to suggest any means of deciding these questions
experimentally in the case of psychognosis ; but the case is better
in psychokinesis, for here one can make a genuine control in which
the attention of the subject is the only missing factor. If one
makes a hundred runs of dice-throwing provided with random
targets, and if ten of these are selected beforehand at random and
a psychokinetic subject called in to influence these only, one could
tell from the results if the efforts of the subject were an objective
'cause' of departures from randomness, for if it were not so the
results of the 'treated' runs would not differ significantly from those
of the 'controls'.
It is already proven that phenomena occur which do not fit in
with our customary habits of scientific thought. That being so,
we must give up those habits, to the extent of abandoning common
sense in the framing of our hypotheses. Until we have reformu-
lated guiding principles of thought, nothing is too absurd to be
worthy of formal disproof ; for we may be sure that there are
still many absurdities which will turn out to be true.
A. F. Parker-Rhodes
Magdalene College, Cambridge
736 Journal of the Society for Psychical ResearcJi [November
Qualitative Material and Theories of Psi
Phenomena
Sir,—In the May-June 1952 issue of t\\t Journal of the S.P.R.,
W. H. Salter has a note under the above title. In it he refers to
my last article in the A.S.P.R. Journal, January 1952, entitled
'The Psychodynamics of Spontaneous Psi Experiences'.
Mr Salter very wisely warns against what he calls 'a source of
possible misconception'. He is fearful that my emphasis upon
experieticers rather than experiences may lead the reader to draw
the conclusion that the experiences need not be investigated. This
would be equally unscientific, in my opinion, as the current trend
to emphasize the experiences to the exclusion of the experiencers.
A scientific approach to a problem demands that all known
parameters be investigated as thoroughly as possible. What
happens, unfortunately, is that the availability of materials and
hypotheses, or the personal interest or prejudice of the investi-
gator, permits one or another aspect to be emphasized or excluded.
The trend in psychical research has been steadily away from
human beings. It was against this tendency to ignore the human
personality and to see only the 'phenomena' (and quantitative
data) that I wished to take a strong stand. I never suggested or
intended that research work along other lines be stopped. We
are grateful, therefore, for Mr Salter's expression of concern.
I am, however, not in agreement with the very tendency against
which I warned even when it appears subtly in Mr Salter's state-
ment. The preference for the experience rather than the experi-
encer is insinuated by Mr Salter in hiS value judgment that the
psychological analysis must be held up until 'the laborious first
step be taken of sorting out the material under examination into
veridical and non-veridical'. Efforts at such a sorting process are
time-consuming and, at present, result in findings that are of
dubious reliability, at best. Moreover, the supply of research
funds and personnel is very limited. Mr Salter's recommendation,
therefore, would in effect perpetuate the barren direction of con-
temporary psychical research.
Emanuel K. Schwartz
New York.
Conditions Favourable to ESP
Sir,—It is, perhaps, worth reminding ourselves from time to
time that the limitations so far imposed by laboratory technique
on research into the process of ESP are not unlike those suffered
by observers of wild animals confined in a cage, and also that
1952] Correspondence 737
spontaneous cases—even though some are chance coincidences or
spurious—may give us clues to Whipsnade conditions for experi-
mental percipients.
The following incidents, for example, three of which occurred
during the last few weeks, demonstrate conditions which have
synchronized with apparent ESP in my own family for many
years, and which are well known elsewhere. The difficulty of
incorporating them into planned experiments does not alter the
fact that they seem to be soil in which ESP appears to flourish.
In the first four cases there was sudden emotion on the part of
the apparent agent. They might almost be called trivial crisis
cases. Last month I went, very exhausted, to catch a bus to our
country cottage. It was, for the first time, full up, and only after
much waiting and three changes did I arrive four miles, instead
of half a mile, from home. I felt far from well and telephoned
anxiously to my husband to fetch me, but, to my great disappoint-
ment, he was playing golf. Fortunately a stranger gave me a lift
to the turning where I usually got out of the bus, and, as we
arrived, my husband drove up. 'What an extraordinary coinci-
dence,' I said, for there was no bus due, I had in any case not said
when I meant to come down, and I had never before wanted him
to meet me when going to the cottage, and he had never done so.
'Not at all,' he replied. 'As we finished our game, I felt you
wanted me, so I refused the drink offered by my opponent, saying
that if I hurried I should just catch you, and I came at once.
I knew you would be here.'
Last week, again, my husband went away to golf, inadvertently
taking the key of our son's car in his pocket. The latter was
greatly inconvenienced, and I, rather distressed, suggested tele-
phoning the Club. He did so at once, and the caddie-master
replied, 'I can see the Colonel coming in now.' My husband, on
being called, said that he had come in on purpose, feeling that I
wanted him on the telephone. (He does not do this on
occasions when I do not want him.)
A wave of feeling, however trivial, seems to do the trick in both
directions between my husband and myself. On one occasion
I felt quite suddenly that he needed me, when I was on my way
home, having left him at an office for an appointment. I turned
the car, rather inconveniently in a narrow country road, and went
back, to find him leaving the building, having heard that his
appointment had fallen through and much annoyed at being with-
out transport home. On another occasion, during the war, I was
sitting quietly at tea with my mother in the country, when I felt
suddenly convinced that my husband had no torch for his walk
home from the station in the blackout, on a very dark, unpleasant
738 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [November
winter's night. So, in spite of my mother's indignant protests
that he had never before forgotten his torch, and why should I
imagine he had done so now, I walked with a torch to the station.
'Thank goodness you've come,' said my husband. 'My torch
went wrong as I left the Ministry.' Chance coincidence apart,
this seems more likely to be a case of response to my husband's
annoyance at the prospect of an unpleasant walk in the dark than
of precognition, since a moment later a friend offered us a lift
home and the torch was not needed.
The following case reminds us of the value, both of a really
carefree attitude and of an encouraging atmosphere. An experi-
enced member of the SPR handed me an envelope, saying
casually, 'Can you tell anything from handwriting?' I said, no,
but he insisted on m.y trying, as a joke. 'Is it a man or a woman?'
he asked. The v/riting looked very feminine, but I had a sudden
conviction that it belonged to a man, an extreme homosexual,
and I gave a fairly detailed description of a type I thought most
unlikely to be corresponding with my questioner.' He laughed,
but said no more than, 'Go on. You haven't put a foot wrong
yet.' Extremely pleased with myself, I made a few more state-
ments, and I seemed to hear an interior voice make a special
point that I should mention that the man liked budgerigars. I
was then told that all I had said had been correct and that the
man was very fond of exotic birds and constantly painted them.
Next day my questioner telephoned to say that he had had
another letter from the man I had described, saying that he
had just bought a pair of budgerigars. I feel pretty sure that I
should not have got the second wave of facts had I been met with
detached silence instead of amused encouragement after the first.
The connexion of an entirely casual attitude with success is, of
course, well known. I remember once asking Mr G. N. M.
Tyrrell, who was convinced he was a hopeless percipient, to take
part in an experiment which I was carrying out, with drawings at
a distance, for the late Mr Whately Carington. He consented, as
a joke, and, to his astonishment, got seven drawings right out of
twenty all different. But his later efforts never deviated from
chance.
To save correspondence, may I add that I do not quote the
above cases as evidence of E S P . I naturally do not consider them
fraudulent, though others may, and they may of course all be
chance coincidences. My point is that, if genuine, they are
examples, among many, of cases containing features in common
^ I have seen the envelope said to have been used in this experiment.
For what my impression is worth, I should have said the writing was
that of an elderly woman.
—
Ed.
1952] Correspondence
73^
which might with advantage be remembered when planning
experiments.
Rosalind Heywood
London, S.W. i.
t
Resistance in ESP Experiments
Sir,—One of the psychological factors in ESP experimental
work which does not appear to have received much, if any, atten-
tion is what is termed by psychoanalysists Resistance. This
occurs when unconscious material attempts to break through into
consciousness, and manifests itself in various ways. The patient
being analysed may remain silent, since he is completely unable
to think of anything to say ; he may be evasive, untruthful, forget-
ful, may make mistakes and slips of the tongue ; he may take a
dislike to the doctor and even in extreme cases break off treatment.
These and other similar mental mechanisms betray to the
trained analyst the anxiety—in ordinary parlance fear—itself
largely unconscious, of the irruption into consciousness of emo-
tionally charged material painful to the patient. Similar mech-
anisms may be detected in normal people approaching the subject
of ESP, since there is a general fear of the 'Uncanny', that is,
anything which does not appear to obey the ordinary rules of
everyday, commonsense life, including such material emanating
from deep levels of the personality as cannot be easily assimilated
in consciousness. As a lady said to me not long ago when relating
a recurrent dream of a house which she eventually recognized and
entered in Central Africa, much to her surprise, 'Talking about
things like this makes me feel cold down my spine.' In my
opinion, such frank confession of shivers actually reveals less fear
than the hostility to psychical research displayed by many matter-
of-fact people. This fear of the Uncanny, which is biological,
has been fully dealt with by Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell in his writings.
At the same time it must not be overlooked that there is attraction
to as well as repulsion from the Uncanny, and it would be an
interesting point to reflect on ; what mingling of these factors
results in serious, dispassionate psychical research?
My attention was first drawn to this subject of 'resistance' some
time ago, when I noticed how frequently reports to the S.P.R. of
spontaneous phenomena were delayed, and how often letters in
reply to questions asking for further details and confirmation
began with apologies for not writing sooner. I began to think
that this was more than a coincidence. Later, when I became a
member of the S.P.R., I observed in myself an irrational reluct-
740 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [November
ance to report a certain dream which appeared to be both tele-
pathic and precognitive, the circumstances of which were evi-
dential. I rationalized this reluctance by telling myself that the
S.P.R. had plenty of material more interesting than mine. It
was only some time later that I was able to overcomie this inhibi-
tion or 'resistance' and report the dream. Freud says : 'It is by
no means impossible for the products of unconscious activity to
pierce into consciousness, but a certain amount of exertion is
needed for this task. When we try to do it in ourselves we become
aware of a distinct feeling of repulsion which must be overcome,
and when we produce it in a patient we get the most unquestion-
able signs of resistance to it' (Collected Papers, 1925, pp. 26-7).
I noticed when I began experiments in card guessing that I
felt an unusual and baffling sense of confusion at first, and a
tendency to forget the instructions, simple as they were. This
passed off as soon as I became aware that I was resisting. I
observed the same air of slight confusion and tendency to make
mistakes in my friends taking part in the experiments, although
they were all persons of high intelligence and some intellectual
attainment. A favourite gambit was to seize a pack of Zener
cards as soon as a run of guesses had been made and shuffle it so
that the target could not be checked. There was also a tendency
to lose interest in the experiments if at the first session no super-
ficially interesting scores could be seen at a glance, and to have
difficulty in finding time for further sessions. It may be argued
that on my hypothesis the less successful subjects should show
less resistance ; but it is after all the conscious ego who consents
to take part in the experiments, and a little encouragement keeps
him at the task, while lack of success discourages him. Moreover,
I believe that everyone has psi faculties, and it is probably the
strength of his fear which prevents him from scoring significantly;
he is like the patient who, finding that nothing spectacular
happens at the beginning of his analysis, gives up his treatment,
saying, 'There is nothing in psychoanalysis', and is all the time
secretly glad of the excuse not to meddle any more with it. The
real resistance of the more successful subject sets in later, when
he ceases to score significantly and gives chance or negative
results. It is as though the psi part of the personality announces
that, having given evidence of his existence, he declines to per-
form any more. Probably the same mechanism works in mediums
under investigation, since psi does not appear to wish to give
away any secrets.
The analyst has a technique for helping to overcome resistance,
which may be summed up in one word, reassurance. This is not
so easy as it sounds, however. It depends upon the transference
1952] Correspondence y^i
—the formation of an affective bond between doctor and patient
—a situation which needs skilled handling. Psychical research
has no comparable technique yet, although a pleasant and friendly
atmosphere seems to be so encouraging in helping the emergence
of psi faculties in experiments that in my opinion it is essential.
It may be that psychological investigation of 'sensitives', such
as mediums, automatic writers, and others subject to marked
spontaneous experiences, will throw light on the problem of
resistance, and suggest why it should be weaker in some subjects
than in others. If, as one suspects, the appearance of psi faculties
is connected with a tendency to dissociation, one would hesitate
to apply regularly a technique for splitting a normally well-
integrated personality for experimental purposes. The work
already done with drugs and hypnosis is interesting, but has
obvious dangers. As we are all, no doubt, only too well aware,
the task of the investigator into ESP problem.s is not an easy one.
Jessie Blundun
Kingskerswell, Devon.
Psi Function and Psychodynamics
Sir,—An attempt was made in 1947 to carry forward the study
of psychodynamics, recognising 'psi' as an active entity. The
nucleus of a research unit was formed. Methods of working were
based on techniques and observations made during research in
psychotherapeutic fields. Basically this consisted of group and
individual work, symbiotically conducted, the dream being used
throughout as a projection screen to observe psychic processes.
This has applied to work concerned with either spontaneous or
statistically assessable phenomena, To date, upwards of 1,200
clinical and research group meetings have been held and over
50,000 dreams carefully examined and many recorded.
Long-distance work has now become a very active branch of
the unit. The object of this work is still, primarily, the study of
psychodynamics and the basic techniques are the same. Some of
the experiments are with Zener cards, and some are of a more
spontaneous nature.
Home or overseas members of the Society who would be
interested in such work and its approach, and v/ho would care to
take part in one or other aspects of the work, are asked if they will
kindly get into touch with me.
Alice E. Buck, M.D.(Psych. Med.), Ch.B.
46 Queen Anne Street,
Wimpole Street, London, W. i
742 Journal of the Society for Psychical Research [November
G.N.M. TYRRELL
As this issue of the Journal goes to press, we learn with deep
regret of the death, at Reigate on 29 October, of Mr G.N.M. Tyrrell.
Mr Tyrrell became a member of the Society in 1908, and was
elected to the Council in 1940. He was President for the years
1945-6. He was the author of Grades of Significance (1930),
Science and Psychical Phenomena (1938), Apparitions (the Frederic
W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture for 1942), The Personality of Man
(1946), and Homo Faber (195 1). An obituary notice will be
published later.
INDEX TO VOLUME XXXVI
Volume XXXVI of the Journal, which is completed with the
present number, consists of Nos. 662 to 672 (January-February
195 1 to November-December 1952). The Index will be circu-
lated with the issue for January-February 1953.
The cost of the binding case for Volume XXXVI will be
announced in due course. In the meantime, readers who require
any numbers to complete their sets are advised to order them
from the Secretary of the Society, 31 Tavistock Square, London,
S.W. I.
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
Society for Psychical Research
31 Tavistock Square • London • WCi
SUPPLEMENT
TO
JOURNAL
Volume XXXVI No. 672 November-December 1952
FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES
RETURN OF LIBRARY BOOKS
A NUMBER of Library books are several months overdue for return.
Members can relieve the Secretary of clerical work if they will kmdly
return them in response to this notice.
TESTS FOR EXTRASENSORY PERCEPTION
An Introductory Guide
This is the title of a pamphlet prepared for the guidance of all who
wish to embark on ESP experiments. Written by Dr D J- ^Vest, so
far as possible in non-technical language, it consists of the followmg
sections: The Use of Standard ESP Cards; Telepathy Tests
;
Preliminary Assessment of ESP Card Results; Other Varieties of
Card Tests-'Clock' Cards ; the Use of 'Free Material as Targets ;
Conditions Favouring Success ;
Telepathy, Clairvoyance, and Pre-
cognition ;
Secondary Effects ; a Note on Psycho-kinesis. /here are
four statistical appendixes, and a glossary of terms used in ESP
The pamphlet will be ready early in the New Year. One copy will be
sent free to any member who applies for it.
INDEXES TO 'PROCEEDINGS' AND 'JOURNAL'
Part 181 completes Volume 49 of the Pyoceedtngs, which will consist
of Parts 177 to 181. The Index will be circulated with Part 182.
Volume ^6 of the Journal which is completed with the current
number, consists of Nos. 662 to 672 (January-February 1951 to
November-December 1952). The Index will be circulated with the
issue for January-February 1953. , o „m-ii
Details of the cost of binding cases for these two Volumes will be
given in the Supplement to the Joiu nal for March-April 1953- I" the
Lantime, members who require any back numbers to complete their
ii Supplement to Journal, November-December ig52
sets are advised to order them from the Secretary. They are available
to members at half of the price to the public.
HONORARY OFFICERS : AN OMISSION
Owing to an oversight, the name of Dr D. J. West, Hon. Investigation
Officer (ESP), was not included in the list of Honorary Officers of the
Society printed on page ii of the Supplement to the Journal for July-
October 1952. The Editor wishes to express his apologies for this
omission.
ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY
The following list consists largely of works which, while not directly
concerned with psychical research, have an important application for
the investigator and experimenter. It does not include books which
have been reviewed in the Journal.
Allport, Gordon W. Personality: a psychological interpretation.
London, Constable, 1949. 588 pp.
Brown, William, and Thomson, Godfrey H. The Essentials of
Mental Measurement. 4th ed. Cambridge University Press, 1940.
ix, 256 pp.
Chambers's Mathematical Tables. Consisting of logarithms of numbers
I to 108000, trigonometrical, nautical and other tables, edited by
James Pryde. New ed. London, Chambers, n.d. xlii,
454 pp.
1 d'Agapeyeff, Alexander. Codes and Ciphers. London, Oxford
University Press, 1949. 149 pp.
David-Neel, Alexandra. Mystiques et Magiciens du Thibet. Paris,
Plon, 1929. vi, 306 pp. lUus.
de Riencourt, Amaury. Lost World: Tibet, Key to Asia. London,
Gollancz, 1950. 317 pp.
Dunbar, Flanders. Emotions and Bodily Changes : a survey of litera-
ture on psychosomatic interrelationships, 1910-1945. 3rd ed. New
York, Columbia University Press, 1946. lix, 604 pp.
Eisler, Robert. Man into Wolf: an anthropological interpretation of
sadism, masochism and lycanthropy. London, Routledge & Kegan
Paul, 1951. 286 pp.
EzEKiEL, Mordecai. Methods of Correlation Analysis. 2nd ed. New
York, Wiley, 1941. xix, 531 pp.
Fisher, Ronald A. The Design of Experiments. 5th ed. Edinburgh,
Oliver & Boyd, 1949. ix, 242 pp.
Fisher, Ronald A., and Yates, F. Statistical Tables for Biological,
Agricultural, and Medical Research. 3rd ed., revised and enlarged.
Edinburgh, Oliver & Boyd, 1948. viii, 112 pp.
FiTZKEE, D. Magic by Misdirection. San Francisco, Lakeside Press,
1945. 227 pp.
^ Presented by Mr T. E. Wood. ^ Presented by Baron Dayet.
Supplement to Journal, November-December ig52 iii
Freeman, G. L. llie Energetics of Human Behavior. New York,
Cornell University Press, 1948. vi, 344 pp.
Freud, Sigmund. On Dreams. An entirely new translation by James
Strachey. London, Hogarth Press, 1952. viii, 80 pp.
GuTHEiL, Emil a. The Language of the Dream. New York, Mac-
millan, 1939. 286 pp.
HoRNEY, Karen. New Ways in Psychoanalysis. New York, Norton,
1939- 313 PP-
Hughes, Pennethorne. Witchcraft. London, Longmans, Green,
1952. viii, 220 pp. Illus.
Hull, B. Thirty-three Rope Ties and Chain Releases. New York,
Burling Hull, 1947. 48 pp. Illus.
Hull, Clark L. Hypnosis and Suggestibility. New York, Appleton-
Century-Crofts, 1933. 416 pp. Illus.
Huysmans, J. K. La-bas. (Eng. trans.) London, Fortune Press, n.d.
216 pp.
Kendall, M. G., and Smith, B. Babington. Tables of Random
Sampling Numbers. Cambridge University Press, 1939. 60 pp.
Keynes, John Maynard. A Treatise on Probability. London, Mac-
millan, 1921. xi, 466 pp.
Kruse, Johann. Hexen iinter uns? Magie und Zauberglauben in unserer
Zeit. Hamburg, Verlag Hamburgische Biicherei, 195 1. 210 pp.
Laslett, Peter (ed.). The Physical Basis of Mind. Oxford, Blackwell,
1950. viii, 79 pp.
Levi, Eliphas (Alphonse Louis Constant). The History of Magic.
Trans. Arthur Edward Waite. 4th ed. London, Rider, 1948. 384
pp. Illus.
Levy, Hyman, and Preidel, E. E. Elementary Statistics. London,
Nelson, 1944. vii, 184 pp.
Levy, H., and Roth, L. Eletnents of Probability. Oxford, Clarendon
Press, 1936. Reprinted from corrected sheets of the ist edition,
1947. X, 200 pp.
Mesmer, Dr. Mesmerism. London, Macdonald, 1948. 63 pp. (The
first English translation of Mesmer's Memoire sur la dkouverte du
Magnetisme animal.)
Muldoon, Sylvan J., and Carrington, H. The Projection of the
Astral Body. 4th ed. London, Rider, 1950. 242 pp.
Murphy, Gardner. Personality, a biosocial approach to origins and
structures. New York, Harper, 1947. xii, 999 pp.
Murphy, Gardner. Historical Introduction to Modern Psychology.
Rev. ed. London, Routledge, 1949. 466 pp.
1 Osborn, Arthur W. The Superphysical: a review of the evidence
for continued existence, reincarnation, and mystical states of conscious-
ness. London, Nicholson & Watson, 1937. 350 pp.
1 Presented by the Author.
iv Supplement to Journal, November-December ig^2
OusPENSKY, P. D. The Strange Life of Ivan Osokin. London, Faber,
1948. 204 pp.
1 RoHLis, Dora. Irrationales iind Rationales Erkennen: Mediale
Erlebnisse in philosophisch-physikalischer Sicht. Munich, pub-
lished by the author, 1950. 108 pp.
RosENZWEiG, Saul, and Kogan, Kate L. Psychodiagnosis : an intro-
duction to tests in the clinical practice of psychodvnamics. New York,
Grune & Stratton, 1949. xii, 380 pp. Illus.
Runes, Dagobert D. (ed.). The Dictionary of Philosophy. New York,
Philosophical Library, n.d. 343 pp.
Ryle, Gilbert. The Concept of Mind. London, Hutchinson's Uni-
versity Library, 1949. 334 pp.
Sackville-West, V. The Eagle and the Dove, a study in contrasts: St
Teresa of Avila, St Therese of Lisieux. London, Joseph, 1943. 182
pp. Illus.
Salter, Andrew. What is Hypnosis. Studies in Auto and Hefero
Conditioning. London, Athenaeum Press, 1950. 95 pp.
Satan. London, Sheed & Ward, 195 1. xxv, 506 pp. Illus.
ScHiLDER, Paul. The Image and Appearance of the Human Body:
studies in the constructive energies of the psyche. London, Kegan Paul,
1935- 353 PP-
Sheldon, W. H., with the collaboration of Stevens, S. S. The Varieties
of Temperament : a psychology of constitutional differences. New
York, Harper, 1942. x, 520 pp.
2 Tenhaeff, W. H. C. Oorlogsvoorspellingen. The Hague, H. P.
Leopolds Uitgeversmaatschappij, 1948. 271 pp.
Thompson, Ernest. The History of Modern Spiritualism. Manchester,
Two Worlds Publishing Co., 1948. 172 pp.
TiPPETT, L. H. C. Statistics. London, Oxford University Press,
1943. 184 pp.
Turner, James. My Life with Borley Rectory. London, Bodley Head,
1950. 272 pp.
" Winterstein, Alfred. Telepathic und Hellsehen im Lichte der modernen
Forschung und wissenschaftlichen Kritik. 2nd rev. ed. Vienna,
Phonix Verlag, 1948. 256 pp.
Wolberg, Lewis R. Hypnoanalysis. New York, Grune & Stratton,
1945. xviii, 342 pp.
WooDWORTH, Roberts. Experimental Psychology. London, Methuen,
1950. xi, 889 pp.
WooDWORTH, Robert S., and Marquis, Donald G. Psychology.
20th ed. London, Methuen, 1949. ^iii> 674 pp.
Yogananda, Paramhansa. Autobiography of a Yogi. London, Rider
[1950]. xii, 403 pp. Illus.
1 Presented by Dr G. Walther.
" Presented by the Author.
Supplement to Journal, November-December igS2 v
f
^
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
i
^ Meetings of the Council were held as follows :
477th II June 1952 Chairman : Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
478th 19 Sept. 1952 Chairman : Dr S. G. Soal.
At the meeting of the Council held on 11 June 1952 Mr K. E.
Shelley, Q.C., was unanimously co-opted a member of Council for the
current year.
MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY
I. Private Meetings at t,\ Tavistock Square
251st Thursday, 11 September 1952, at 6.30 p.m. G. W. Fisk and
A. M. J. Mitchell : The new 'Clock Face' Method for ESP
and PK.
252nd Thursday, 25 September 1952, at 6.30 p.m. Discussion Meet-
ing. How to investigate a Case.
253rd Thursday, 16 October 1952, at 6.30 p.m. Royston H. Low :
Modern Psychiatry and the Psi Function.
2. Public Lecture at Caxton Hall
Wednesday, 16 July 1952, at 8 p.m. Professor H. H. Price : Survival
and the Idea of 'Another World'.
NEW MEMBERS
Members
{Elected 11 June 1952)
Bredin, Mrs H.M., Barnoon, Parkgate, Wirral, Cheshire.
Carleton-Jones, Mrs. F. V. M., P.O. Box 236, George, CP., South
Africa.
Cornell, A. D., B.A., Brookside, Histon, Cambs.
Davies, Miss E., B.A., 52 Carpenter Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham 15.
Hall, Trevor H., The Balk, Wahon, nr Wakefield, Yorks.
Hull, Mrs N. K., 55 Milson Road, Cremorne, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
Latham, L. J., 49 Scarsdale Villas, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Neave, Mrs A. M. S., 11 Carlyle Square, Chelsea, London, S. W. 3.
Oldham, O. W., 52 Monmouth Road, Bristol 7.
StudeJit-Associate
Fairbrother-Jacobs, K. J., 38 Graham Street, Pascoe Vale, Melbourne
W. 7, Australia,
vi Supplement to Journal, November-December igS2
Members
[Elected 19 September 1952)
Clayton, Mrs H., c/o Mrs Whaley, Fairhaven, Nailsea, Bristol.
CoLEiNG, H., 184 Johnson Street, Maffra, Victoria, Australia.
DuvEEN, Mrs P. S., 6 Strathearn Place, London, W. 2.
FiNDLAY, S. H., M.A. (Oxon.), 45 Kynaston Road, Orpington, Kent.
Grant, L. C, M.Com., 16 Dexter Avenue, Mt Eden, Auckland S. 2,
New Zealand.
Greenwood, H. P., M.A. (Cantab.), Whitsbury House, Fordingbridge,
Hants.
Grimson, Miss M., 119 King Street, Cambridge.
Jennings, Miss M. M., 5 Campden Hill Gardens, London, W. 8.
Kingston, E. M., 6 Chichester Close, Chichester Place, Brighton.
Mardall, B., 42 Naunton Way, Cheltenham, Glos.
Nangie, Miss A. W. A., M.A. (Cantab.), 22 Cyprus Gardens, London,
N.3.
Richardson, Mrs E. J. L., 14 Sheridan Road, Merton, London, S.W.
19-
Ridge, C. H., Pare Clies, Gulyal, Penzance, Cornwall.
Roberts, W. A., Grittleton House, nr Chippenham, Wilts.
Sahib, A. G. Rao, B.A., 13 Hall's Road, Madras 8, India.
Scott, K. F., Newland, Kirkby Road, Ripon, Yorks.
Spickett, Miss D. C, 41 Lowndes Street, London, S.W. i.
Whaley, Mrs P., Fairhaven, Nailsea, Bristol.
Student-Associates
de Ward, T. C. M., Lyston House, East Street, Blandford, Dorset.
Lowe, G. B., Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN
BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
INDEX TO VOLUME XXXVI
1951-2
For the sake of brevity such qualifications as 'supposed',
'alleged', etc., are omitted from this index. It must, however, be
understood that this omission is made solely for brevity, and does
not imply any assertion that the subject-matter of any entry is in
fact real or genuine.
Roman numerals and dates in brackets refer to the Supplements
to the Journal which are issued to Members only. For example
'iii (May 51)' means page iii of the Supplement to the May-June
issue.
Adventure, An, comparison with
Dieppe Raid case, 692-3
Austin, Mrs V. M., precognition
experiment with Mrs Methven,
366-8
Barrett, Sir W., and the Sloan
mediumship, 729
Bell, Col A. H., letter on water
divining, 450-1
Bell Adjustment Inventory, 463
Bemreuter Personality Inventory,
463
Besterman, T., letter on water
divining, 451
Birds, navigation of (A. J. C. Wilson),
521-2
Blundun, Jessie, letter on resistance
in ESP experiments, 739-41
Brain function, in J. R. Smythies's
theory of psi phenomena, 496-
7.
British Broadcasting Corporation :
broadcasts, v-vi (Mar.52) ; Tele-
vision Service, vi (Mar.52)
British Medical Journal, summary of
report on a case of congenital
ichthyosiform erythrodermia, 716
Brown, G. Spencer, Perrott Student-
ship award, 536
Brown, William, obituary, i (July
52)
Buck, Alice E., letter on psi
function and psychodynamics,
741 ; visit to Duke University, i
(Nov. 51)
Carington, W. W., suggested meth-
ods of testing his theory of tele-
pathy, 385-7, 389-93
Cases : Dieppe Raid case, 607-18 ;
levitation in Nepal, 415-26 ;
pol-
tergeist in West Norwood, iii
(Mar. 52) ; two 'arrival' cases,
467-72
Cave, C. J. P., obituary, xii (Mar. 51)
Chari, C. T. K., note on precogni-
tion, 509-18 ; comment on J. R.
Smythies's paper 'The Extension
of Mind', 553-7
Chesters, Denis, letter on Dieppe
Raid case, 691-2
Clairvoyance, in theory of percep-
tion, 602-5, 636-7
Clark, Pamela M., letter on retro-
active PK, 380-3
Cleobury, F. H., letter on meta-
physics and parapsychology, 444-6
'Clock' cards for ESP experiments,
ii (Mar. 52)
Clwyd, Lady, obituary, xii (Mar. 52)
Collins, B. Abdy, obituary, ii (Nov.
Cooper, C. M., and water divining,
379, 531-2
Correspondence : Conditions fav-
ourable to ESP (Rosalind Hey-
wood), 736-9 ;
Dieppe Raid case
(D. Chesters), 691-2, (W. H. W.
Sabine), 692-3, (G. W. Lambert),
693-5 ; ESP and information
theory (E. R. R. Holmberg), 573-
5 ; ESP as guesswork (Antony
Flew) 634-5, (D. J. West), 695 ;
Is PK guided by knowledge?
(M. C. Perry), 534-5 ; Meta-
743
744 Index to Volume XXXVI
Correspondence :
physics and parapsychology (F. H.
Cleobury), 444-6 ; Prejudice (R.
Wilson), 532-4 ; Psi function and
psychodynamics (Alice E. Buck),
741 ; Qualitative Material and
Theories of psi phenomena (W.
H. Salter), 630-3, (E. K. Sch-
wartz), 736 ; The Clairvoyant
Theory of Perception (M. M. Mon-
crieff), 602-5, (J- R- Smythies),
636-7 ; Resistance in ESP ex-
periments (Jessie Blundun), 739-
41 ; Retroactive PK (Pamela M.
Clark), 380-3, (C. K. Mundle),
412-14 ; Shackleton experiments
(S. G. Soal), 633-4; Statistical
evaluation of group experiments
(Christopher Scott), 409-10, (Ger-
trude Schmeidler), 410-12, (Chris-
pher Scott), 452 ; Water divining
(Col. A. H. Bell), 450-1, (T. Bes-
terman), 451, (Denys Parsons),
45 1-2
'Cross-correspondence' scripts, J.
G. Piddington and, 708-16
Dalton, G. F., the solution of prob-
lems in dreams, 645-74
De La Warr, G., iv (Mar. 52)
Dianetics, 405-6
Dieppe Raid case, 607-19 ; corres-
pondence on, 691-5
Dingwall, E. J., reviews of
Solid Proofs of Survival, 505-6 ;
Psychotic Art, 438-40 ;
Spiik :
Irrglaube oder Wahrglatibe} , 373-
5 ; West Africa?! Psychology, 596-
7 ; Father Thurston, The Phys-
ical Phenomena of Mysticism,
Padre Pio da Pietrelcina, 7 1 8-23
Displacement, in Fisk experiments,
369
Dowsing : see Water divining
Dreams : classification of, 440-1 ;
Hunkin case, 467-70 ;
Taylor
case, 470-2 ;
interpretation of,
681-6 ; solution of problems in,
645^74 ; used to observe psychic
processes, 740
Dunne, J. W., theory of precogni-
tion compared with Professor
Broad's, 660-1
Edwards, Harry (healer), proposed
investigation of, iv (Mar. 52)
Ehrenhaft, dust particles phenom-
enon, 567
Electro-encephalograph, ESP ex-
periments in conjunction with,
ii (Mar. 52), 697-700 ; in experi-
ment on mediumistic trance,
588-96
ESP (see also Experiments) : con-
ditions favourable to (letter by
Rosalind Heywood), 736-9 ; dis-
persion of scores in experiments
(D. J. West), 361-6 ; as guess-
work (letter by Antony Flew),
634-5. and comment by D. J.
West, 695 ; and information
theory (letter by E. R. R. Holm-
berg), 573-5 ; interpretation of
experiments (letter by A. F.
Parker-Rhodes), 734-5 ; Intro-
ductory Guide to tests for, i (Nov.
52); personality ratings and E S P
scores (Betty M. Humphrey),
453-66 ; and psycho-kinesis (N.
Lossky), 702-8 ;
recording errors
in experiments, 734 ; resistance
in experiments (letter by Jessie
Blundun), 739-41 ;
selectivity in
experiments (C. W. K. Mundle),
385-93
Evans, C. C, an experiment in the
electro-encephalography of med-
iumistic trance (with E. Osborn),
588-96
Evidence, a decisive factor in assess-
ment of (G. N. M. Tyrrell), 355
Expansion-Compression Rating,
453-66
Experiments : 'clock' cards in
ESP experiments, ii (Mar. 52) ;
electro-encephalography of med-
iumistic trance (C. C. Evans and
E. Osborn), 588-96 ; ESP experi-
ments with a double target (G. W.
Fisk and D. J. West), 520 ; ESP
experiments with simultaneous
electro-encephalographic record-
ings (S. C. Wallwork), 697-700 ;
ESP experiments with an infant
(G. W. Fisk), 502-4; ESP ex-
periments on patients before and
after shock treatment, ii (Mar. 5 1 )
;
ESP tests with psychotics (D. J.
West), 619-23 ; ESP and PK
experiments with 'Nimrod' elec-
tronic computer, iii (Mar. 52)
;
Index to Volume XXXVI 745
home-testing ESP experiments
(G. W. Fisk) : preliminary' re-
port, 369-70, second report,
518-20 ; PK experiments on
paramecia (N. Puclimond), 577-
88 ;
experiment in precognition
(G. N. M. Tyrrell), 366-8
Film, on psychical research, v
(Mar. 51)
Fisher's Hill group, 710, 716
Fisk, G. W., co-optation to Council,
vi (July 51) ; ESP experiments
with an infant, 502-4 ; home-
testing ESP experiments, prelim,
report, 369-70, 2nd report, 518-
20 ; ESP experiment with double
target (with D. J. West), 520 ;
review. The Psychic Source Book,
627-8
Flew, A. G. N., comment on J. R.
Smythies's paper 'The Extension
of Mind', 547-53 ; letter on ESP
as guesswork, 634-5 • comment
on, by D. J. West, 695
Flugel, J. C, review of New
Approaches to Dream Interpreta-
tion, 681-6 ; visual hallucin-
ation of the self, 426-9
Fraudulent Mediums Bill : text,
370-1 ; second reading in House
of Commons, 370-1 ; comment by
K. E. Shelley, K.C., 372 ; third
reading, 476 ;
Roj^al Assent,
536
Garrett, Eileen : see Trance,
mediumistic
Gay, Kathleen, the Dieppe Raid case
(with G. W. Lambert), 607-19 ;
^ review of Neiv Light on Survival,
628-30
Gibbes, Miss E. B., obituary, xii
(Mar. 52)
Goldney, Mrs K. M., 402, iv (July
51), xii (Mar. 52)
Greenwell, T., investigatign of pol-
tergist, iii (Mar. 52)
Grensted, L. W., reviews of I Appeal
unto Caesar, 475 ;
Religion and the
New Psychology, 570-1 ; The Devil
in Massachusetts, 730-1
Group experiments, statistical eval-
uation of : correspondence, 409-
12, 452
Guesswork, ESP as : letter by
A. G. N. Flew, 634-5 ; conmment
by D. J. West, 695
Hallucinations : visual hallucination
of the self, 426-9 ;
auditory, in
Dieppe Raid case, 607-19
Hamilton, Nina, Duchess of, obitu-
ary, xii (Mar. 52)
Hardy, A. C, co-optation to Council,
vi (July 51)
Haynes, Renee, reviews The Message
of Fatima, 376-8 ;
Enthusiasm,
402-4
Hettinger, J., ESP experiments
with psycho-galvanic reflex, 725-6
Heywood, Rosalind, letter on con-
ditions favourable to ESP, 736-9 ;
review of Mors et Vita, 526-7 ;
The Uncurtained Throne, 529-30
Hill, J. A., obituary, i (Nov. 51)
Hohnberg, E. R. R., letter on ESP
and information theory, 573-5
Home-testing ESP experiments : see
Fisk
Homing, of birds, 521-2
Humphrey, Betty M., visit to
London, and ESP experiments on
mental patients, ii (Mar. 51) ;
the relation of some personality
ratings to ESP scores, 453-66
Hunkin, J. W., dream of, 467-70
Hypnosis : brain rhythm in, 594,
596 ; FL Carrington on, 602 ;
alleged cures under, 603-4 > ich-
thyosis treated by, 716-18
Hysteria, mass, in Salem, Connec-
ticut (1692), 730
Ichthyosis, treated by hypnosis,
716-18
information theory and ESP, 573-5
Januarius, St., liquefaction of blood,
719
Kneale, Mrs M., review of her paper
on psychical research and philos-
ophy, 395-6
Lambert, G. W., the Dieppe Raid
case (with Kathleen Gay), 607-19 ;
letter on the Dieppe Raid case,
693-4
Leibniz, G. W., and personalism,
702-3
746 Index to Volimie XXXVI
Levitation, report of case in Nepal,
415-26
Lhermitte, Jean, on visual hallu-
cination of the self, 426-9
Longman, L., review of Unseen
Adventures, 598-600
Lossky, N., extrasensory perception
and psycho-kinesis, 702-8
Maby, J. C, exchange of views on
water divining (with P. A. Ongley),
674-8
Mace, C. A., reviews of Analytical
Psychology and the English Mind,
472-4 ;
Freud, Collected Papers,
Vol. V, 472-4
McMahan, Elizabeth, visit to Lon-
don, ii (Mar. 51)
Marsh, P. H., research award to,
i (Mar. 51)
Mason, A. A., summary of report of
ichthyosis treated by hypnosis,
716-18
Mescaline, phenomena of, 524, 566,
568
Metaphysics and parapsychology,
letter by F. H. Cleobury, 444-6
Methven, Mrs, object-reading ex-
periments in precognition, 366-8
Mitchell, Alan, and 'clock' cards ex-
periments, iv (Mar. 52)
Moncrieff, M. M., letter on The
Clairvoyant Theory of Perception,
602-5 ; comment by J. R.
Smythies, 636-7
Mundle, C. W. K., selectivity in
ESP experiments, 385-93 ; re-
view of his paper on psychical
research and philosophy, 398-401 ;
comment on letter by Pamela M.
Clark on retroactive PK, 412-14 ;
letter on precognition and PK,
446-7 ; comment on J. R.
Smythies's paper 'The Extension
of Mind', 543 -6
Murphy, G., review of Homo Faber,
697-81
Murray, Gilbert, elected President,
624
Nangie, Ava, appointment to staff,
xii (Mar. 52)
Nepal, case of levitation in, 415-26
Neiv Statesman, telepathy act re-
counted in, iv (Mar. 51)
Newton, Isabel, obituary, xii (Mar.
Nicol, J. Eraser, critical analysis of
PK data, i (Mar. 51) ; ESP ex-
periments (with Edward Osborn)
363-5 ;
joins staff of Parapsycho-
logy Laboratory, v (Mar. 52)
'Nimrod' electronic computer
:
ESP and PK experiments with,
iii (Mar. 52)
Norton (pseudnym), Mrs D., and
Miss A.; see Dieppe Raid case
Obituaries : Brown, Dr William, i
(July 52) ; C. P. C. Cave, xii
(Mar. 51) ;
Lady Clwyd, xii
(Mar. 52) ; B. Abdy Collins, ii
(Nov. 51); Miss E. B. Gibbes,
xii (Mar. 52) ; J. Arthur Hill, i
(Nov. 51), xii (Mar. 52); Miss
Isabel Newton, xii (Mar. 51);
J. G. Piddington, 637, 709-16 ;
Miss Hermione Ramsden, i (Nov.
51) ; Mrs Lloyd Tuckey, xii
(Mar. 51) ; G. N. M. Tyrrell,
742 ; Miss May Walker, xii (Mar.
51)
Ongley, P. A., exchange of views on
water divining (with J. C. Maby),
674-8
Osborn, Edward, and Journal, iv
(July 51) ; ESP experiments
(with J. Eraser Nicol), 363-5 ;
review of Hypnotism afid the
Power Within, 404-5 ; editorial
comment on acase of levitation in
Nepal, 417-26 ; an experiment in
the electro-encephalography of
mediumistic trance (with C. C.
Evans), 588-96 ; visit to Duke
University, v (Mar. 52)
Paramecia, PK tests on (N. Rich-
mond), 577-88
Parker-Rhodes, A. F., letter on the
interpretation of ESP experi-
ments, 734-5
Parsons, Denys, and meetings of the
Society, xiii (Mar. 52) ; letter on
water divining, 451-2 ; reviews :
Journal of the American Society for
Psychical Research, 379, 407-9,
475-6, 530-2, 601-2, 690-1, 733-
4 ; Mental Prodigies, 597-8 ;
Second Sight : its History and
Origins. 571-2
Index to Volume XXXVI 747
Perrott Studentship, 394; award, 536
Perry, M. C, letter : 'Is PK guided
by knowledge?', 534-5
Personalism, Leibniz and, 702-3
Personality ratings, relation to ESP
scores (Betty M. Humphrey),
453-66 ; Bell Adjustment Inven-
tory, 463 ; Bernreuter Personality
Inventory, 463 ;
Expansion-Com-
pression Rating, 453-66 ; Stuart
Interest Inventory, 459
Philosophy and psychical research
(extract from The Times Literary
Supplement), 507
Piddington, J. G., and cross-
correspondence scripts (W. H.
Salter), 708-16 ;
obituary, 637,
709-16
Pietrelcina, Padre Pio da, stigmata
of, 721-2
Piper, Mrs Leonora, and cross-
correspondences, 711 ; medium-
ship of, 727
Plesch, P. H., review of The Revolt
Against Reason, 441-3 ;
investiga-
tion of 'Super Ray machine', iv
(Mar. 52)
Poltergeists : review of F. Moser's
Spiik, 373-4 ; case in West Nor-
wood, iii (Mar. 52)
Precognition : experiment in (G.
N. M. Tyrrell), 366-8 ; letter on,
446-7 ; a note on (C. T. K. Chari),
509-18
Press, attention to psychical research
in the, v (Mar. 52)
Price, Harry, biography of (review),
401-2
Price, H. H., review of Psy-
chical Research, Ethics and Logic,
395-401 ; comment on J. R.
Smythies's paper 'The Extension
of Mind', 537-42
Psi : theories of, and qualitative
material : letter by W. H. Salter,
630-3 ; comment by E. K.
Schwartz, 736 ; letter on psi
function and psychodynamics
(Alice E. Buck), 741
Psychic healing, proposed investiga-
tion of, iv (Mar. 52)
Psycho-galvanic reflex, Dr Hetting-
er's ESP experiments with,
725-6
Psycho-kinesis : proposed critical
analysis by J. F. Nicol, i (Mar.
51) ;
precognition and PK, 446-
7 ;
experiments with rotating cage,
691 ; PK and ESP (N. Lossky),
702-8 ; 'retroactive PK' (letter by
Pamela M. Clark), 380-3 : com-
ment by C. W. K. Mundle, 412-
14 ; is PK guided by knowledge?
(letter by M. C. Perry), 534-5
Psychotics, ESP tests with (D. J.
West), 619-23
Radionics and Radiesthesia, Con-
gress of, 504
Ramsden, Hemaione, obituary, i
(Nov. 51)
Randomization, in ESP experi-
ments, 734-5
Rawcliffe, D. H., 'double whispering'
theory criticized by S. G. Soal,
633-4
Reviews : Allen, Warner, The Un-
curtained Throne, 529-30 ; Bar-
low, F., Mental Prodigies, 597-8 ;
Baynes, H. G., Analytical Psy-
chology and the English Mind,
472-4 ;
Crehan, J., Father Thurs-
ton, 718-23 ;
Cunxmins, G., /
appeal unto Caesar, 475, Unseen
Adventures, 598-600 ;
Custance,
J., Wisdom, Madness, and Folly,
527-9 ;
Dixon-Smith, R., New
Light on Survival, 62S-20 ;
Dodds,
E. R., The Greeks and the Irration-
al, 686-8 ;
Findlay, A., Where
Two Worlds Meet, 726-30 ;
Fodor, N., Neiv Approaches to
Dream I?iterpretation, 681-6 ;
Freud, S., Collected Papers, Vol. V,
472-4 ;
Hettinger, J., Telepathy
and Spiritualism, 723-6 ; Hub-
bard, L. R., Dianetics : the mod-
ern Science of Mental Health,
405-7 ;
Journal of Parapsychology,
378-9, 443, 506-7, S72-3> 688-9,
733-3 ;
Journal of the American
Society for Psychical Research, 379,
407-8, 475-6, 530-2, 601-2, 690-1,
733-4 ;
Knight, Margaret, Theo-
retical Implications of Telepathy,
429-3 1 , William James : a selec-
tion from his writings, 402 ;
Knox, R. A., Enthusiasm, 402-4 ;
Lamont, C, Illusion of Immor-
tality, 375-6 ;
Langham, ].,More
748 Index to Volume XXXVI
Reviews :
than meets the Eye, 600-1 ;
Leroy,
O., Miracles, 572 ;
Lunn, A.,
The Revolt against Reason, 441-3 ;
Martindale, C. C, The Message of
Fatima, 376-8, Padre Pio da
Pietrelcina, 718-23 ;
Moncrieff,
M. M., The Clairvoyant Theory of
Perception, 523-4 ; Mors et Vita,
526-7 ;
Moser, F., Spiik : Irr-
glaube oder Wahrglaube?, 373-5 ;
Nielsen, E., Solid Proofs of Sur-
vival, 505—6 ;
Parrinder, G.,
West African Psychology, 596-7 ;
Proceedings of the Scientific and
Technical Congress of Radionics
and Radiesthesia, 504-5 ;
Psy-
chical Research, Ethics and Logic,
395-401 ;
Rawcliffe, D. H., Psy-
chology of the Occidt, 624-7 ;
Reitman, F., Psychotic Art, 438-
40 ;
Rinn, J. F., Sixty Years of
Psychical Research, 431-8 ; Sab-
ine, W. H. W., Second Sight in
Daily Life, 52^-6; Smith, Alson J.,
(ed.). The Psychic Source Book,
627-8, Religion and the New Psy-
chology, 570-1 ;
Spence, L., Sec-
ond Sight : its History and Origins,
571-2 ;
Starkey, M. L., The Devil
in Massachusetts, 730-1 ;
Stevens,
W. O., The Mystery of Dreams,
440-1 ;
Still, A., Borderlands of
Science, 731-2 ;
Tabori, P.,
Harry Price : the Biography of a
Ghost-LIunter, 401-2 ;
Thurston,
Herbert, The Physical Phenomena
of Mysticism, 718-23 ;
Tyrrell,
G. N. M., Homo Faber : a study
of Man's Mental Evolution, 679-
81 ;
yan'PeXt,^.]., Hypnotism and
the Poiuer Within, 404-5
Richmond, N., PK tests on Para-
mecia, 577-88
Rhine, J. B., correspondence on his
Myers Lecture 'Telepathy and
Human Personality', 444-6 ; visit
to London, i-ii (Mar. 51)
Robertson, A. J. B., review of Pro-
ceedings of the Scientific and Tech-
nical Congress of Radionics and
Radiesthesia, 504-5
Robinson, R., review of his paper on
psychical research and philosophy,
395-8
Rohracher, PL, phenomena of body
vibrations, 567
Roll, W. G., and experiments in
ESP, ii (Mar. 52)
Rose, Louis, review of Wisdom,
Madness and Folly, 527-9 ; in-
vestigation of psychic healing, iv
(Mar. 52)
Ryle, G., criticism of his theory of
mind, 478, 493-6
Sabine, W. H. W., letter on the
Dieppe Raid case, 692-3
Salem witch trials, 730
Salter, H. de G., reviews of The
Greeks and the Irrational, 686-8,
Miracles, 572
Salter, W. H., letter on qualitative
material and theories of psi
phenomena, 630-3 ; reviews :
Harry Price : the Biography of a
Ghost-Hunter, 401—2, The Mys-
tery of Dreams, 440-1, Second
Sight in Daily Life, 524-6, Sixty
Years of Psychical Research, 43 1-8,
Where Tivo Worlds Meet, 726-30 ;
Three Score Years and Ten :
the S.P.R., 1882-1952, 639-45 ;
Two '
Arrival ' cases, 467 ; J. G.
Piddington and his work on the
'Ci-oss-correspondence' scripts,
708-16
Schmeidler, Gertrude, 362 ;
group
experiments : reply to C. Scott,
409-11 ; C. Scott's comment,
452
Schwartz, E., quoted by W. H.
Salter, 632-3 ;
reply to W. H.
Salter, 736
Scott, C, letter on group experi-
ments, 409-10, 452
Shackleton experiments, D. H.
Rawcliffe's theory of double
whispering, 626, 633-4
Sloan, J. C, and proposed investi-
gation by S.P.R., 729-30
Smythies, E. A., a case of levitation
in Nepal, 415-26
Smythies, J. R., the extension of
mind : a new theoretical basis for
psi phenomena, 477-502 : com-
ments by H. H. Price, R. H.
Thouless, C. W. K. Mundle,
C. C. Stevens, A. G. N. Flew, and
C. T. K. Chari, 477-557; reply
Index to Volume XXXVI 749
by J. R. Smythies to comments,
S57~7o; reviews: Dianetics,
The Clairvoyant Theory of Percep-
tion, 523-4; letter on The Clairvoy-
ant Theory of Perception, 636-7 ;
procedure suggested for ESP ex-
periments with electro-encephal-
ograph, 699
Soal, S. G., letter on D. H. Raw-
cliffe's theory of double whisper-
ing, 633-4 ; reviews of The Theor-
etical Implications of Telepathy,
429-31 ; visit to Duke Univer-
sity, iv (Mar. 52) ; elected Presi-
dent for 1950, vi (Mar. 51) ; re-
elected for 1951, vi (Mar. 52)
'Society for Psychical Research, The,
1882-1952' (W. H. Salter), 639-45
Society for Psj'chical Research :
Accounts, 1950 : vi-xi (Mar. 51) ;
1951 : vii-xi (Mar. 52)
Annual reports, 1950 : i-xii (Mar.
51) ; 1951 : i-xiii (Mar. 52)
Council, membership of, vi (Mar.
51) ;
meetings of, xiv (Mar. 51),
v-vi (July 51), iii (Nov. 51),
xiii (Mar.; 52), ii (July 52), v
(Nov. 52)
Donations, xi (Mar. 5 1), v, x (Mar.
.52)
Finance v (Mar. 51), iii (July 51),
v (Mar. 52)
Honorary Investigation Officer
(ESP), ii (Nov. 52)
Hon. Secretary's review of the
year 1950, i-v (July 51)
Journal, circulation among pub-
lic, vi (Mar. 51)
Legacies, v (Mar. 51), v (Mar. 52)
Library, additions to, ii-iv (Nov.
52)
Meetings : annual general, i (July
51), i (July 52) ;
extraordinary
general, xii (Mar. 51) ; of the
Society, xiii (Mar. 51), xiii (Mar.
Membership . totals : 1950 : xii
(Mar. 51); 1952 : xii, (Mar. 52)
New members, xiv-xvi (Mar. 51)
vi-vii (July 51), iii-iv (Nov. 51),
xiv-xv (Mar. 52), iii-iv (July 52),
v-vi (Nov. 52)
President, election of : for 1950,
vi (Mar. 51) ; for 195 1, vi
(Mar. 52) ; for 1952, 624
Publications, xii (Mar. 51), xii
(Mar. 52)
Research, i (Mar. 52)
Research awards, i (Mar. 51)
Staff, xii (Mar. 52)
Spirit Electronic Communication
Society, iii (Mar. 52)
Star, The, articles on 'The Sixth
Sense', v (Mar. 52)
Stevens, C. C, comment on J. R.
Smythies's paper 'The Extension
of Mind', 546-7
Stevens, Hilda, review of More than
meets the Eye, 600-1
Stiginatization, of Padre Pio, 721 ;
sexual aspects of, 721 ; and
neurotic state, 721 ; A. Lechler's
case of, 722
Stratton, F. J. M., investigation
of Dr Hunkin's dream, 467-70
Strauss, E. B., hypnotist in E. E. G.
experiment, 594-5
Stuart Interest Inventory, 459-66
Super Ray machine, iii (Mar. 52)
Supernatural, Catholic view of, 720
Taylor, J. E., dream of, 470-2
Telepathy : in dreams, 667-70 ;
Theoretical Implications of (review),
429-31
Thouless, R. H., comment on C. K.
Mundle's letter on precognition
and PK, 448-50 ; on J. R.
Smythies's paper 'The Extention
of Mind', 542-3 ;
report on ex-
periment on psycho-kinesis with
dice, xii (Mar. 52) ; reviews : The
Illusion of Immortality, 375—6,
Journal of Parapsychology, 378-9,
443, S06-7, 572-3, 688-9, 732-3,
Psychology of the Occult, 624-7,
William James : a selection from
his writings, 402
Thurston, Herbert, memoir of (re-
view), 718-23
Times Literary Supplement The, ex-
tract from article on philosophy
and psychical research, 507
Trance, mediumistic : experiment
in the electro-encephalography of,
588-96
Tuckey, Mrs Lloyd, obituary, xiii
(Mar. 51)
Tyrrell, G. N. M., a decisive factor
in the assessment of evidence, 355 ;
750 Index to Volume XXXVI
experiment in precognition, 366-
8 ; death of, 742
Vasse, Paul, on ESP experiments
with an infant, 502-4
Walker, May, obituary, xii (Mar.
51) ;
legacy from estate of, v (Mar.
52)
Wallwork, S. C, ESP experiments
in conjunction with electro-ence-
phalograph, ii (Mar. 52), 697—700
Wassermann, G. D., ESP experi-
ments, ii (Mar. 52)
Water divining : review of report by
L. A. Dale and Gardner Murphy,
407-9 : correspondence 450-2 ;
review of C. M. Cooper's experi-
ments, 531 ;
summary of exchange
of views between P. A. Ongley
and J. C. Maby, 674-8
West, D. J., dispersion of scores in
ESP experiments, 361 ; ESP
tests with psychotics, iv (July 51),
619-23 ; letter on ESP as guess-
work, 695 ; E S P experiment with
a double target (with G. W. Fisk),
520 ;
Introductory Guide to ESP
experiments, i (Nov. 52) ; review
of Telepathy and Spiritualism,
723-6
Whispering : D. H. RawclifFe's
theory of, 626 ; criticised by S. G.
Soal, 633-4
Wilson, A. J. C, review of report on
experiments on navigation of birds,
521-2
Wilson, R., letter on prejudice,
532-4
Winn, Merrick, articles in The Star,
V (Mar. 52)
Wood, T. E., gift of magnetic tape-
recorder, iii (Mar. 52)
Yeagley, H. L., review of his experi-
ments on navigation of birds,
521-2
CONTENTS
PAGE
A Decisive Factor in the Assessment of Evidence. By G. N. M.
Tyrrell --------- 355
Dispersion of Scores in ESP Experiments. By D. J. West - - 361
An Experiment in Precognition. Reported by G. N. M. Tyrrell - 366
Home-Testing ESP Experiments. A Preliminary Report by
G. W. Fisk --------- 369
The Fraudulent Mediums Bill ------- 370
Selectivity in ESP Experiments. By C. W. K. Mundle - - 385
The Perrott Studentship in Psychical Research - - - -
394
A Case of Levitation in Nepal. By E. A. Smythies, CLE. - 415
Visual Hallucination of the Self. By J. C. Flugel - - . ^26
The Relation of some Personality Ratings to ESP Scores : a
Review of recent Research. By Betty M. Humphrey - -
453
Two '
Arrival ' Cases -------- - 467
The Fraudulent Mediums Bill ------- 476
The Extension of Mind : a new theoretical Basis for Psi Phenomena.
By J. R. Smythies, M.B., B.Chir. 477
ESP Experiments with an Infant as Subject. Reported by G. W.
Fisk ^02
A Note on Precognition. By C. T. K. Chari - - - - 509
Home-Testing ESP Experiments. Second Report by G. W.
Fisk 518
An ESP Experiment with a double Target. By G. W. Fisk and
D. J. West --------- 520
How do Birds navigate.? A Review of further Experiments. By
A. J. C. Wilson ---------521
The Fraudulent Mediums Act, 195 1 ------ ^36
The Perrott Studentship in Psychical Research - - - - 536
'The Extension of Mind' : Comments on Dr Smythies's Paper. 537
By H. H. Price (537), Robert H. Thouless (542), C. W. K.
Mundle (543), C. C. Stevens (546), Antony G. N. Flew (547),
C. T. K. Chari (553)
Reply by Dr Smythies - - - - - - "557
Two Series of PK Tests on Paramecia. By Nigel Richmond -
577
An Experiment in the Electro-encephalography of Mediumistic
Trance. By C. C. Evans and Edward Osborn - - - ^88
The Dieppe Raid Case : a Collective Auditory Hallucination.
Investigated by G. W. Lambert and Kathleen Gay - - 607
ESP Tests with Psychotics. By D. J. West - - - - 619
iii
iv Contents
PAGE
The Society's new President ------- 624
Three Score Years and Ten : the S.P.R., 1882-1952 - - - 639
The Solution of Problems in Dreams. By G. F. Dalton - -
645
Water Divining : summary of an Exchange of Views between
P.A. Ongley and J. C. Maby ------ 674
ESP Experiments with Simultaneous Electro-encephalographic
Recordings. By S. C. Wallwork ----- 6gy
Extrasensory Perception and Psychokinesis : an Explanation in
Terms of Intuitivist Epistemology and Personalist Metaphysics
By N. Lossky - -- -- -- -- -702
J. C. Piddington and his Work on the 'Cross-correspondence'
Scripts. By W. H. Salter - - - - -
'
- - 708
Ichthyosis treated by Hypnosis - - - - - - 716
