{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1universe_creation_nde.html","mytitle":"Universe Creation Vision 22","mylang":"de"}
          	        Universe Creation Vision 22  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Universe Creation Vision  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						10057  Universe Creation Vision  22  					  				  			      			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 This was a very lucid dream I had several years ago and would like to share it with you.


            In the dream, I was walking in a crowded area when I saw a cave off in the distance.  For some reason I was drawn toward the cave and decided to go in and investigate.


                        As I entered the cave, I noticed a small group of primitive people sitting around a fire in the center of the cave.  By the tone and nature of their voices, they were discussing something of importance.  As I got nearer, they stopped talking and one got up and came over to me.  He stood there for a few moments, smiled, then took me by the hand, and led me out of the cave and to a carousel located off by itself near the cave entrance.


            On the carousel there were hand painted wooden figures, which looked like fairies or some sort of small people.  When we got near the carousel, it started moving in a circle and playing loud invigorating music.  The primitive man pointed to the carousel indicating that he wanted me to go aboard it.  It looked exciting and I knew it would be fun.  I jumped on and it immediately increased in speed until everything was blurred.


            In one instance many lives passed by, I knew myself as many different people at many different times - in the past and in the future.


            Suddenly I was suspended in space where I was the only thing that existed.  It was total darkness, but somehow I was surrounded in a brilliant light.  In fact, I was the light.  I was everything that existed.  There was nothing else except me.  Through my being ran pure joy, unconditional love, and there was a sensation of such magnitude that it can't be described.  It felt like a sexual orgasm multiplied by infinity.  Time didn't exist.  I just was.  I existed.  I was I AM and nothing else.  I had been here forever and would remain here forever.  The thought entered my mind that this was wonderful but I needed to cause a "movement."  I needed to cause a "flow of energy."  At that moment, I had an overwhelming and compelling urge to initiate a flow of energy.


            I knew if I moved, energies would be put in motion, and there would be creation.  I moved.  All around and within me I saw galaxies come into to being.  Universes were being created and stars being born.  It was exciting, the more excited I got, the more galaxies were then created.


            Another thought entered my mind of how exciting it would be to explore this new creation that existed.  As this thought entered my mind, I was born.


The following is a poem that resulted from the experience.


“Dedicated to All True Seekers of Truth”


In the abyss of eternity where there exist no dimensions, width, or height


I basked in ecstasy and existed as a sparkle of a most Brilliant Divine Light.


I was aware of My Being and did not question how I came to be


While reflecting in perfection, I knew that nothing existed except for Me.


Then came a feeling of loneliness that for Me was hard to know and bear


I wondered if there was anything for Me to Love and for which to care.


As eons passed in the eternal now, I continued in bliss to enjoy


But somewhere deep within lay an intense desire to create and to deploy.


I knew if I was to act, energy would then be created and would be dispatched


In Eternity, plans conceived with Love and patience were now carefully hatched.


Finally in one brief moment, the decision to move and act was resolved


Thus out poured Brilliant White Light in which infinite Love revolved.


Now everywhere among the emptiness did boundless dimensions come to exist


Looking all around in wonderment and to continue to create I could not resist.


Out poured more infinite Love and energy and to the distant realms it did fly


In the newly created galaxies did new minted worlds form with land and sky.


As I looked upon the new Creation with infinite joy and holy delight


There were many worlds to know and in which to imbue with Truth and Light.


As this thought was created, out to the infinite worlds it did rapidly scatter


Portions of My Being continued to fragment and became part of all physical matter.


With interest and delight, I viewed My creations with unlimited joy and glee


But somehow it seemed lacking and needed something more for the completion of Me.


I needed someone with whom to commune and love in all My days


Someone to share my thoughts with and someone to share in all My Ways.


To live each wonderful day with exceeding joy and to a complete fullness


We would share our gentle love with hearts filled with unlimited goodness.


So now it was done and all forms were thus completed


As I looked around there was nothing more that I needed.


As the species of mankind evolved and deeper it fell into the world of materiality


The voice of the Divine Spark now spoke even more softly while in this reality.


Man’s advancements in the sciences were most magnificent and deadly


But to the voice of the great Wisdom within, man chose not to listen willingly


In time and space man continued to think thoughts that caused him wars and grief


If only he knew he was a Co-creator and would accept this as his most holy belief.


In the depths of despair, a Man did lie in torment one stormy dark night


 It was nothing he could do, even when he tried with all his earthly might.


To the heavens in fury and grief he did loudly call


Asking for help from any heavenly being, any at all.


Instantly in the room of despair there was a most brilliant and holy flash


My Beloved your prayers were answered even before you have asked.


The Voice so gentle and filled with kindness did say


Wisdom is now yours and your new life has begun this day.


With infinite joy the man looked about the room for someone other than himself


Than suddenly without a doubt, he understood the words, “ Man Know Thyself.”


For all True Seekers there is always the Master


To aid and comfort in all your perceived disasters.


Listen quietly for the Divine Voice within


And with perfection, each day will begin.


For Heaven, to the skies do not search or seek


Because within yourself, there you must take a peek.</strong>

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1universe_creation_nde.html