{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1udaya_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Udaya N NDE 7711","mylang":"de"}
          	        Udaya N NDE 7711  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Udaya N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3964 Udaya N NDE 7711  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					All I remember is slipping on the floor. After that, my memory is floating through a dark tunnel.  I could still feel and hear my mother crying as if I was dead.  Even though I knew it was my mother, who is crying, I didn't have any feelings for her.  I could feel that my body is lying there, but I knew that I am not that body.  I was different from that body. While floating through the black tunnel, all I felt was the joy of going somewhere I wanted to go.  I was heading to my destination. I could feel the presence of my grandmother who had passed away several years before when I was in elementary class.  I could feel the presence of other souls, too. All of a sudden, I heard a strong command to open my eyes. I heard it three times; the command was so strong. I felt like I was back in my body.  After the third time I heard the command, I opened my eyes. I felt so distressed, as if I am going to vomit if I didn't open my eyes.  Finally, somehow, I pushed open my eyes. I am not sure how long this experience lasted but it felt like forever, although my mom said that it lasted for several minutes. They took me to hospital to check me out, but doctors could not find anything wrong with my head.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1990

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.    Other: I am not sure, as I was taken to hospital after I was awake. I was at home and my mother was the only one with me.  All she could say is that she thought I was dead.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could clearly hear my mom crying and begging me to come back.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During that time, I was aware of everything happening around my body as well as around my consciousness that was travelling through the tunnel.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I slipped, all I remember is going through the tunnel. That was the point I felt the most alert.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I didn't feel anything about time at all.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Same

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a dark tunnel with no light anywhere. But I could still see my grandmother and other souls looking or waiting for me.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I didn't feel any emotions. Even though I knew my mom was crying. I did not feel anything.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Hindu

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am very spiritual now and believe in the oneness of this universe.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Hindu   still Hindu but more spiritual than religious.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was religious then but never had thought about death or after life . So the entire experience was really new to me where I experienced myself different from the body.At the age of 16 I was too young to realize that I am not this body

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My experience helped me a lot to feel that I am not a physical body that is going to die one day, no matter what. I am the everlasting, joyous soul that no one or any circumstances can destroy.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The voice I heard was so strong and unearthly as it had a strong impact on me.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I had the strong feeling then that the command was coming from God then,

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     yes because I was definitely going some where ,

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I definitely felt the love from the souls that were surrounding me in the tunnel including my grand mothers

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I cannot say that the changes that happened in my life started right after the experience. But this experience always came to my mind. After having some good life experiences where I started becoming more spiritual, I started thinking about my experience and it was very easy to me to relate that I am not this body.  I am an everlasting soul that never dies.     I cannot say that the changes that happened in my life started right after the experience. But this experience always came to my mind. After having some good life experiences where I started becoming more spiritual, I started thinking about my experience and it was very easy to me to relate that I am not this body.  I am an everlasting soul that never dies.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It's somewhat difficult, as words cannot express what I felt then.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The experience definitely helped me to answer my question of, 'Who am I?' Once I became spiritual, every time when I try to find an answer to this question, the experience would come back to me. I could clearly feel that I am the consciousness that has no gender, race, religion and the whole world is in me. This experience has helped me a lot to feel this oneness.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    To my family

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     That experience was very clear in my vision and the voice I heard feels very real even after 25 years.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Even when I had forgotten most of my other life events, I still can remember what I felt while going through the tunnel and when I heard that strong voice.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1udaya_n_nde.html