{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1udon_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Udon T NDE 2851","mylang":"de"}
          	        Udon T NDE 2851  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Udon T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						979  Udon T NDE  2851  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I had lost a lot of blood from liver failure and had to be rushed from Lao to Thailand in an ambulance and by the time I arrived at the hospital I was in a very bad way. I was put into the intensive care unit and they started blood transfusion but I was losing too much blood. I was conscious but in extreme pain and tried to doze on and off, while they kept putting tubes in and out doing tests etc., etc. This went on through the night and more blood was flown from Bangkok the next morning. I remember the doctor saying that a specialist was going to use a scope that they would enter into my stomach.  This would be uncomfortable and hurt but they needed to stop the bleeding as I was fading very fast. I was already in extreme pain like I had never experienced before and it seemed that every hair and atom in my body just screamed with pain.

I remember being rolled on my side so they could place the tube into my mouth and then I blacked out. All of a sudden, there was no pain and I remember distinctly a humming noise like the sound of very powerful electrical current that was the most beautiful sound I have ever heard. It is so hard to explain but it is like a hummmmm but as if the most perfect orchestra in the world played it. You probably won't understand that part but it was very distinctive.

The next I remember was seeming to become part of everything but moving with huge fluorescent light structures that formed waves and were perfect in size and movement and the light was perfect. For some reason everything seemed to all of a sudden make sense, the world, myself, everything was answered in an instant and it seemed I knew everything. There were no beings but energy like myself that was part of everything. There was no coolness, heat, wind, or anything just perfect fluorescent lights that controlled all the structure and gently everything moved in waves. I then just remember coming back and the doctor and everyone was standing over me panicking and the pain started to come back again. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2005  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I knew everything and understood everything so there were no questions or queries.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was suddenly aware what everything was and started to move with the light.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   There seemed to be no time that had meaning everything was in the right place and everything made sense and was perfect.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was perfect color, sound, everything.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The sound of power and I can still hear the noise or imagine I can hear the noise if I concentrate.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Fluorescent lights connected everything that exists very large fluorescent lights but endless and moved in waves and crossed in a way that made sense.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     as described  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was not part of my body or this world as I know it and nothing seemed to worry me.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I have had some very strange things happen. Several times I have sat down to watch TV and something that I have seen on TV the day before is breaking news which I try not to dwell on as it disturbs me.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I all of a sudden knew everything somehow it is very hard to explain.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   When I came back I remember thinking I wish I could write all that down or I would forget but I remember parts but not all.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     As above.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Too hard to explain.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I tried to tell a friend but found it very hard to talk about.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Immediately after it was very vivid but I was another two days in the intensive care unit and even though it was on my mind I was constantly in pain having tests etc., etc.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real in a sense that at the time it was real but after you think about it too often you start to actually wonder if it was real or just a strange dream when you pass away. Very mixed.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1udon_t_nde.html