{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1trisha_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Trisha H NDE 177","mylang":"de"}
          	        Trisha H NDE 177  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Trisha H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						625  Trisha H NDE  177  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 As I came through a white light, I saw him standing there - tall, young and wearing a brown military uniform, and I just knew who he was when he reached out his hand. I saw what I had seen my whole life: a hand like my dad's hand. As I went to hug him, I was overcome with a deep sorrow and I just cried - a deep cry that I know I have never felt before. I cried for his short life, for his 3-year old son he never saw grow up, for my grandmother who never remarried, and for me, for the grandfather I never knew.


We talked about his plane crash in WWII. I told him that his death was never a subject brought up when I was growing up, and that I only knew a little about him. He explained that my grandmother (his wife) had dealt with her grief in 1945, but that this subject was hard for her. I told him that I was feeling guilty for really never taking an interest in him. He laughed and said, ‘I know, but now the time has come.’ We walked and talked for what seems like a very long time. It was not rushed; it was peaceful.


As we walked, I remember meeting other men who had been killed in action. My grandfather stressed over and over how it was my time ‘to set the plane crash right.’ At that time, I knew I wanted to stay, but my grandfather walked me back to what seemed like the outskirts of a town that was still in 1945.  At the edge of town was the white light, at that moment I felt a deep sadness for leaving him. As we walked to the light, he gave me a hug and said, ‘When you have doubt, or sadness, remember this hug and the warm breeze and you will know it was real.’ I took in every scent of him.  I even ‘thought’ I caught my hand on a medal on his jacket. My grandfather and I went to the light and I felt so torn, but with his words of ‘I love you, and I will be here when you are ready, but not now for there is so much for you to do.’


I asked him about my son whom I had just had. He told me to be strong, ‘Joey will have a mild problem but it will all work out.’  We hugged again and I walked back to the warm light. I know I saw myself lying on the bed with many tubes, and a nurse, and that was it.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    2/11/1997-4/1/1997

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Childbirth     massive organ fail, brain swellingI was 7 months pregnant with my third child when I developed HELLP Syndrome.

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  As a whole person.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Not sure. I think I was consciousness.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I felt time was from another period.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Walked out of a tunnel into a town.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I met people in this town who all seemed to know me.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   White, warm, inviting.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The whole town was warm, all flowers were in bloom, and the colors were beautiful.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Strong connection. Love. Deep sadness.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I am more sensitive and feel strongly about things.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I feel that no one will believe me and my biggest question is, ‘Why?’

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Meeting my grandfather and not being able to bring him back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Most just think I dreamed it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1trisha_h_nde.html