{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1trinjntje_nde.html","mytitle":"Trinjntje NDE 7803","mylang":"de"}
          	        Trinjntje NDE 7803  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Trinjntje NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4034 Trinjntje NDE 7803  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My mother was arguing with my father, and she took the car in the direction of her family in another city.

They had both been drinking and yet they drove.

I went along. In the car I was very anxious and kept thinking we would not arrive at the family. It later became apparent this would be the hour of my birth! Which I didn't know yet then.

My mother was not fully awake; I knew that as well. I talked with her about all kinds of things, she began to see cows in a meadow where there were no cows, we were travelling in pitch dark. 

A minute later we had that accident at an intersection. My mother seemed to have been blinded by the headlights of an approaching car at that intersection. My sense was then as it is now, that she had abandoned control of the car resulting in the crash.

I was knocked unconscious, for how long, I don't know. I was in a field which was quite dark and grey. There were hills, it seemed hazy and in that field were two younger men.

We needed water, I must look for water!

Then I came to, I had hit my head on the dashboard.

I was unharmed but afterwards I developed bad eyesight and needed glasses. 

My mother was still sitting upright with her face on the steering wheel. I thought she was dead. I shouted at her, "Mother, Mother..." I was so afraid she was dead.

Suddenly she awoke... and she said, "I am a monster... I am a monster." "No mother," I said, "You are not, you are not."

Ambulances had arrived and so did the police; how long such things take in the country I have not the faintest idea.

But it was strange that the other car had two young male occupants. One was almost unharmed but the other spent months lying in bed in a coma.

That was strange in light of my having just seen two young men earlier in that hazy field.

And why did I have to look for water?

That night I was taken to the house of two very nice people, a man and a woman. I was allowed to lay on their couch and was served snacks and drinks. They were so very nice. That's where I was later picked up by family.

Luckily everything ended okay for my mother and me.

In those days, cars had no seat belts and driving under the influence of alcohol was not yet prohibited. That only changed later on.

It was a bad experience that could have been much worse.

An NDE?

I have no idea; I suspect it was something like that.

I was granted a few paranormal gifts making me a bit different from other people. That sometimes seems to happen after a NDE?

I also seem to store up electricity, especially at the debit card checkouts for instance. I back away a step and then the machine works again. Very strange, I don't know what that is.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1975

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Ongeluk  Other: Klap hoofd tijdens ongeluk even buiten bewustzijn  Head was struck during accident causing a short time of loss of consciousness. I had this experience right after the accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It was like a dream, but a very real dream.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The moment, in which I was standing in that dark landscape, something I found quite unique. As a child one would find that very unique, I would think.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was more hazy.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear, we communicated telepathically.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Those two young men, from the other car, apparently.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place.     Well, it was another area than where I was and though it was dark outside it was less dark there, duskier.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt I needed to help.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other faiths- New age   Ik geloof in een God, als in een liefdesenergie

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I was only age eight, what religious convictions should I have had at that time?

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I have no idea; I was a child afterwards too.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I suspect so but whether it was because of this, I don't know.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real.      It seemed a dream, only much later it occurred strange to me to come across two young men there.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real.     You don't forget it, just like unusual dreams that always stay with you.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It is good as it is.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1trinjntje_nde.html