{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 5438 4451","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v1_17_july_1882.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V1 July 17 1882","mylang":"de"}
-- .,
[ 7 ]
PROOEEDINGS
01'
THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH,
July 17, 1882.
The first general meeting of the Society was held at Willis's Rooms,·
London, on July 17th, 1882.
HENRY SIDG'WICK, EsQ., PREsIDENT, IN THE CDAIR.
The following address was delivered by the President :-
Before we proceed to what baa been marked out as the business
of this meeting, as it is the first general meeting of our new Society
since the time it was definitely constituted, it baa been thought
that I should make a few brief remarks on the aims and methods
of the Society, which will form a kind of explanation in supple-
ment to our prospectus defining those aims and methods,-which,
I suppose, has been seen by all the members, and perhaps by some who
are not as yet members. This prospectus has not been subjected to
much instructive public criticism. It has been received, either with
entire cordiality, or with guarded neutrality, or with uninstructive
contempt. Still, several private criticisms on that prospectus and
questions suggested by it have come to my notice j and it seems to me
that I might perhaps employ the few minutes of your time that I wish
to take up in no better way than in replying to these criticisms and
objections.
The first question I have heard is, Why form a Society for
Psychical Research at all at this time, including in its scope :not merely
the phenomena of thought-reading (to which your attention will be
directed chiefly this afternoon), but also those of clairvoyance and
mesmerism, and the mass of obscure phenomena commonly known as
Spiritualistic 1 Well, in answering this, the first question, I shall be
able to say something on which I hope we shall all agree j meaning by
"we," not merely we who are in this room, but we and the scientific
world outside j and as, unfortunately, I have but few observations to·
make on which so much agreement can be hoped for, it may be as well
Digitized by Google
Pirie Gene}fal,1tfeeting. [July 17.
to bring this into prominence, namely, that we are all agreed that the
present state of things is a scandal to the enlightened age in which
we live. That the dispute as to the reality of these marvellous
phenomena,-of which it; is quite impossible to exaggerate the scientific
importance, if only a tenthpart of what 'has 'been alleged by generally
credible witnesses could be shewn to be true,-I say it is a scandal that
the dispute as to the reality of these phenomena should still be going
on, thit.t sO mari.yoompeteiJ.t witnesses should have declared their belief
in them, that so many others shoUld be profoundly mterested 'in'having
the question determined, and yet that the educated world, as a body,
should still be simply in the attitude of incredulity.
Now the primary aim of our Society, the thing which we all unite
,to promote, whether as believers or non-belieTers, is to make a sustained
and systematic attempt to remOTe this scandal in one way or another.
Some of those whom I address feel, no doubt, that this attempt can only
lead to the proof of most of the alleged phenomena; some, again, think it
probable that most, ifnot all, will be disproved; but regarded as a Society,
we are quite unpledged, and as individuals, we are all agreed that any
particular investigation that we may make should be carried on with a
siI!.gle:.minded desire to ascertain the facts, and without any foregone
conclusion as to their nature.
But, then here comes the second question, which I have had put
by many who are by no means unfriendly to our efforts,-that is,
Why should this attempt succeed more than so many others that
have been made during the last thirty years 1 To this question
there are several answers. The first is, that the work has to go
on. The matter is far too important to be left where it now is, and,
indeed, considering the importance of the questions still in dispute,
which we hope to try to solve, as compared with otherscientific problems
on which years of patient and unbroken investigation have l?een
employed, we may say that no proportionate amount of labour hilS yet
been devoted to our problems; so that even if we were to grant that
previous efforts had completely failed, that would still be no adequate
reason for not renewing them. But, again, I should say that previous
efforts have not failed; it is only true that they have not completely
succeeded. Important evidence has been accumulated, important
experience has been gained, and important effects have been produced
upon the public mind. "
I say that important evidence has been accumulated; and here
I should like to answer a criticism that I have privately heard
which tends' to place the work of our Society in a rather invidious
aspect. It is supposed that we throw aside en bloc the result'!
of previous inquiries, as untrustworthy, and arrogate to ourselves a.
superior knowledge of scientific method or intrinsically greater trust-
Digitized by Google
1882.] . President'8 Acit1resa. 9
worthiness-that we hope to be believed, whatever conclusions we may
come to, by the scientific world, though previous inquirers have
been uniformly distrusted. Certainly I am conscious of making rio
assumption of this kind. r do not presume to suppose that I could
produce evidence better in quality than much that has been laid before
the world by writers of indubitable scientific repute-men like Mr.
Crookes, Mr. Wallace, and the late Professor de Morgan. But it is
clear that from what I have defined as the aim of the Society, however
good some of its evidence may be in quality, we require a great deal more
of it. I do not mean to dispute,-it is not now the time to dispute,-
with any individual who holds that reasonable persons, who have looked
carefully into the evidence that has been so far obtained, ought to be
convinced by that evidence; but the educated world, including many
who have gi.ven much time and thought to this subject, are not yet
convinced, and therefore we want more evidence.
If anyone asks me what I mean by, or how I define, ·sufficient
. scientific proof of thought-reading, clairvoyance, or the phenomena called
Spiritualistic, I should ask to be allowed to evade the difficulties of
determining in the abstract what constitutes adequate evidence. What
I mean by sujficient evidence is evidence that will convince the scientific.
world, and for that we obviously require a good deal more than
we have so far obtained. I do not mean that some effect in this
direction has not been produced: if that were so we could not hope to
do much. I think that something has been done; that the advocates
of obstinate incredulity-I mean the incredulity that waives the whole
affair aside as undeserving of· any attention from rational beings-feel
their case to be not JJrimd facie so strong now as it was.
Thirty years ago it was thought that want of scientific culture was
an adequate explanation of the vulgar belief in mesmerism and table-
turning. Then, as one man of scientific repute after another came
forward with the results of individual investigation, there was a quite
ludicrous ingenuity exercised in finding reasons for discrediting his
scientific culture. He was said to be an amateur, not a professional; or
a specialist without adequate generality of view and training; or a mere
discoverer not acquainted with the strict methods of experimental
research; or he was not a Fellow of the Royal Society, or if he was it was
by an unfortunate accident. Or again, national distrust came in; it wa.<i
chiefly in America that these things went on; or as I was told myself,
in Germany, some years ago, it was only in England, or America, or
Franee, or Italy, or Russia, or some half-educated country, but not in
the land of Geist. Well, these things are changed now, and though I do
not think this kind of argument has quite gone out of use yet it has on
the whole been found .more difficult to work; and our obstinately
incredulous friendBt I think, are now generally content to regard the
igitized byGoogl
10 First General Xeetif'lg. [July 17,.
interest that men of undispu'te!i lCientific culture take in' these,
phenomena as an' unexplained mystery, like the phenomena them-,
selves. '
Then aga.in,'to tum to a dift'erent class of objectors, I think, though
I do not wish to overrate the change, that the attituqe of the clergy has.
sensibly altered. A generation ago the investigator of. the phenomena
of Spiritualism was in danger of being assailed by a formidable alliance-
,of scientific orthodoxy and religious orthodoxy ; but I think that this.
alliance is now harder to bring about. Several of the more enlightened
clergy and laity who attend to the state of religious evidences have-
come to feel' that the general principles on which incredulous science-
explains off-hand the evidence for these modem marvels are at least,
equally cogent a",crainstthe reCords of ancient miracles, ,that the two-
bodies of evidence must primd facie stand or fall together, or at least.,
must be dealt with by the same methods.
Then, again, a generation ago we were directedto go tQ the conjurers,
'and told that we should Be/) that the whole thing was conjuring. I quite
think that this direction was to a great extent just and important: it is.
highly desirable that the investigation of these matters should be carried
on by men who have tried to acquaint themselves with the performanC$
of conjurers. But we can no longer be told oft:.hand that all the marvels
recorded by Mr. Crookes,Professor Zollner, and others, are easy conjuring:
tricks, because we have the incontrovertible testimony of conjurers to the-
contrary. They may' be conjuring tricks, but they are at any rate tricks.
that conjurers cannot find out.
For these various reasons I think we may say that on the whole-
matters arc now more favourable for a.n impartial reception of the
results of our investigation, so far as we can succeed in obtaining
any positive results, than they were twenty years ago. In saying
this I do not in the least wish to ignore or make light of the
evidence that has been accumulated in recent years to shew that
at least a great part of the extraordinary phenomena referred to
Spiritual agency by Spiritualists in England and America arc really due
to trickery and fraud of some kind. I had this in view when I said
just now that important experience had been gained by preceding
investigations. This is certainly part of the experience, and I
believe that no Spiritualist denies its importance. It would, however,
be a mistake to suppose that investigators, or even believers in
mesmerism or Spiritualistic phenomena, had not their eyes open
twenty years ago to the part played in these phenomena by
fraud.
My interest in this subject dates back for nearly twenty years, and
I quite remember that when I began to look into the matter, nearly
every educated Spiritualist that I came across, however firmly
Digitized by Google
·Prl8idenfs Address. 111.
COJlvinced, warned me against fraud, and emphasised his warning by"
impressive anecdotes. It is merely a question of degree, and I think
it would be generally admitted that recent experiences have changed
the view of many Spiritualists with regard to the degree. I think
that even educa.ted and scientific Spiritualists were not quite-.
prepared for the amount of fraud which has recently come to light,
nor for' the obstinacy with which the mediums against whom fraud
has been proved bve been afterwards defended, and have in fact
been able to go on with what I may, without offence, call their trade,_
after exposure no less than before.
And this leads me to the point which is chiefly characteristic of the-
method of investigation which our Society will, I hope, in the main use.
Though it would be a mistake to lay down a hard and fast rule' that we·
may not avail ourselves of the services of paid performers orpaid mediums,
still we shall, as much as possible, direct our investigation to phenomena..
where no ordinary motives to fraud,-a.t any rate I may say no.
pecuniary motives,-(lILD come in. There has, of course, olways been
a mass of evidence of this kind. In fact, I think everyone who has
become convinced of the reo.1ity of the phenomena, or has become·
strongly and persistently convinced that there is a primd facie-
case for investigation, has had his attention first attracted by
narratives of what has gone on in private families or private circles..
where none but relatives or intimate friends have been concerned.
Now, the great gain that I hope may accrue from the formation of-
this Society is that the occurrence of phenomena-primd facie
inexplical?le by any ordinary natural laws-may be more rapidly
and more extensively communicated to us who desire to give our
time to the investigation, so that in the first instance we may
ca.refully sift the eTidence, and guard against the danger of illusion
or deception which even here may, of course, come in; and then,
when the evidence has been sifted by accumulation of personol
experiments, make it more available for the purpose of producing-
general conviction.
As I said before, I do not mean to claim for myself or my colles.","lles. -
either any special aptitude for investigation, or any special claim to the-
credence of mankind, as compared with the members of private house-
holds or circles of friends where the phenomena may in the first instance·
occur. But in a matter so strange to ordinary experience I think we·
may say that it is only gradually that a man learns the complicated
precautions that have to be taken in order to exclude all conceivable
possibility of illusion or deception. Certainly my own experience is
that I only learnt what had to be done in this way, and had to be.
guarded against, in a graduol way, by repeated experiments.
AI. regards the question of cridibility, the important point.
Digitized by Google
11.'2 Fi"8t General Meeting. . [July 17~
'to bear in mind is that every a.dditional witness who, as Do
Morgan said, has a fair stock of credit to draw upon, is an iniporta.nt.
gain. Though his credit alone- is not likely to suffice for the
demand that is made on it, hi!! dra.ft will help. For. we must not
expect any decisive effect in the direction at which we prima.rily aim,
-on the common sense of mankind, from any single piece of evidence,
however complete it has been made. Scientific incredulity has been so
long in growing, and has so many and so strong roots, that we shall
·only kill it, if we are able to kill it at all as regards any of those
questions, by burying it alive under a heap of facts. We must keep
" pegging away," as Lincom said; we must accumulate fact upon fact,
·and add experiment upon experiment, and, I should say, not wrangle
-too much with incredulous outsiders about the conclusiveness of any
one, but trust to the mass of evidence for conviction. The highest
·degree of demonstrative force that we can obtain out of any single
record of investigation is, of course, limited by the trustworthiness of
the investigator. We have done all that w~ can when the critic has
nothing left to allege except that the investigator is in the trick. But
when he has nothing else left to allege he will allege that.
We shall, I hope, make a point of bringing no evidence before the
public untilwe have got it to this pitch of cogency. I think it is desirable
'on various grounds, but one ground is, I think, this: It is due to the
private families or private circles of friends whom wehope to persuade to
.allow us to take part in their experiments, not to leave the subject or the
medium of the phenomena.--when we have convinced ourselves, by our
'own methods, of the genuineness of the phenomena--to bear alone the
injurious suggestions' of any incredulous materialist who ma.y find it
needful to attack our experiments. We must drive the objector into
-the position of 'being forced either to admit the phenomena. as
inexplicable, at least by him, or to accuse the investigators either of
ilying or cheating or of a blindness or forgetfulness incompatible with
:.any intellectual condition except absolute idiocy.
, h,m glad to say that this result, in my opinion, has been satisfactorily
:attained in the investigation of thought-reading. ~fessor Barrett
will now bring before you a report which I hope will be only the
first of a long series of similar reports which may have reached
.the same poiut of conclusiveness.
Digitized by Google
1882.] Report of Oommitfu on Tholtf/M-Reading. 13
FIRST REPORT ON T~OUGHT-READING.
By W. F. B.ABRETT, Professor of Physics in the Royal. College ot
Science for Ireland; EDMUND GUDEY, M.A., Late Fellow of
Trinity Colle~ Cambridge; and F. W. H. MyERS, M.A., Late-
Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge.
[Read to tlte Society, July 17, 1882.]
For several years past the members of this Committee have been.
gathering evidence on the obscure but important question of what may
be termed 8UperSmIJUOU8 peruption. Stray facts met with from time to
time in the course of our own·observations, or related to us by com-
petent witnesses, led us to doubt the sufficiency of the popular
physiological explanations to account for all cases, and encouraged us to,
persevere in an inquiry which may be stated in the form of the
following proposition :-
Is there or is there not any existing or attainable evidence that can
stand fair physiological criticism, to support a belief that a vivid
impression or a distinct idea in one mind can be communicated to.
another mind without the intervening help of the recognised organs of
sensation' And if such evidence be found, is the impressioD, derived:
from a rare or partially developed and hitherto unrecognised sensory
organ, or has the mental percept been evoked directly without any
antecedent sense-percept' The nature and the laws of this direct action
of mind on mind would of course form a subject of prolonged subsequent.
discussion and inquiry whenever the evidence in its favour had
accumulated sufficiently. The object of the present report is to place 011
record the first instalment of the evidence which we have up to this.
time collected in reference to this subject.
The presentstate of scientific opinion throughout the world is not only·
hostile to any belief in the possibility of transmitting a single mental.
concept, except through the ordinary channels of sensation, but, generally
speaking, it is hostile even to any inquiry upon the matter. Every
leading physiologist and psychologist down to the present time has.
relegated what, for want of a better term, has been called "Thought-
reading " to the limbo of exploded fallacies.*Dr. W. B. Carpenter, whOS&
.. In the July number ofthe Nind«ntlt Oemurg the seuior assistant phyBician at
WIl8tminater Hospital expreaael hill amazement at the hardihood of anyone having
the alightest pretence to scientific knowledge daring to put forth evidenCe in favour
of thought-reading; and a recent writer in the Saturda,l Re1IietD gives expl'8llSion to
the general scientific point of view of the present day on this subject when he remarks
that .. we thought we had heard the last of thought-reading."
Digitized by Google
~14 , Jleport of Committee on Tllouuht~Reading. [July 17,
"
name and distinguished contributions to the science and literature
·()f physiology command umversal recognition and respect, finds in
the so-called thought-reading a striking confirmation of views he
has long advocated, that the "communications are made by unconscious
muscular action on the part of one person and automatically interpreted
by the other." Where collusion does not come into play all that Dr.
Carpenter has ever seen or heard rests upon the " intermediation of those
expressional signs which are made and interpreted alike unconsciously....
Dr. H.l\faudsley in his "Pathology of Mind" takes the same view as Dr.
Carpenter, treating the subject as hardly worthy ~ serious refutation.
,Collusion, hallucination, unconscious interpretation of unconsciously
imparted signs, furnish, according to the physiologists of to-day.
:.abundant explanation of the phenomena under investigation.
Twelve months ago, the performances of Mr. Irving Bishop having
;attracted considerable attention, a small committee of distinguished men
investigated the matter, and after a few and rather hastily conducted
'experiments, a report, approved ofby the other members of the committee,
·'Was drawn up by Mr. G. J. Romanes, and published in Nature for June
23rd, 1881. The report indicates that one member of the committee,
·Professor Ray Lankester, absolutely refused to countenance the idea of
thought-reading, and objected to the other members-Professor Croon)
Robertson, lIr. F. Galton, and Mr. Romanes-giving even a fair trial to
" so puerile a hypothesis." The trial was, however, made, and the result is
·thus stated: "From these experiments it is needless to say we did· not
-anticipate any results, but, with the exception of Professor lAmkester•
.we thought it worth wbile to make them, not only because Mr. Bishop
:seemed to desire it, but also to satisfy the general public that we had
given the hypothesis of 'thought-reading' as well as that of 'muscle
reading' a fair trial."
Mr. Stuart Cumberland has obtained considerable notoriety by
.-experiments somewhat similar to those of }Ir. Bishop, but his perfor-
mances have no sort of relationship to our experiments, as he expressly
disclaims thought-reading and denies the possibility of obtaining any
results without contact. Mr. Bishop, on the other hand, professes to
-()btain results without contact, but the experiments for which he makes
this claim are never obtained without the very closest proximity, nor
without accompaniments of needless flurry and excited pantomime
. which are eminently calculated to distract and mislead tho attention.t
* "Mesmerism, Spiritualism," .\':c., by Dr. W. B. CarPenter, pp. 53 and 55.
t It is due to Mr. Bisbop, however, to say that he has more recentJly publicly
tried (a.nd one of us has also privatelyeeen) experiment8considerably betterthan
bis earlier ones, as regard8 success and the distance between himl8lf and the
person "willing."
Digitized by Google
1882.] Report of Committee Ot~ Tkought-Reading. ,I;')
Mr. Bishop's and ~Ir. Stuart Cumberland's,perfonnanQes are in some
ftBpects identical with those exhibited, some years past, by a Mr. Corey
.and others, in America.. In a paper read before a scientific body in
Detroit, and published in the Detroit Review of Medicine for August,
1875, Dr. T. A. M;cGra.w describes as follows the method followed by
Mr. Corey in his experiments: "Bringing himself," sayli Dr. McGra.w,·
." into direct physical 'lOntact with some person, Mr. Corey was enabled
1;0 discover objects which that person had secreted, and to select from a
multitude of objects the one upon which the willer was intent. All his
JlCrformances were but variations upon these two strings. A hidden
~Bject was found, or a person, letter, or figure was picked out from a
e"Owd of others. He usually brought himself into contact with his
~ubject by grasping the subject's hand, and applying it to his oW».
-forehead, but sometimes placed his own hand also on the brow of
his companion." The w:ri,ter proceeds to shew that Mr. Corey's tests
(like most ofthose of Mr. Bishop and ~Ir. Cumberland) are only ideas
which can be expressed by the simplest kind of m:ticm. "He cannot.
detect any kind of an idea in such a way as to express it first by speech.
Thus he cannot tell directly the date of a coin, nor can he discover it in
:any other manner than by choosing out the figures which represent it
from among others on a, table." It is obvious, as the writer goes on to
say, that most of the actions "could be explained by the perception
by a trained operator of involuntary and unconscious muscular
movements."
"I myself," he continues, "experienced this tendency to involuntary
action, when trying to carry out fairly one of Mr. Corey's tests. The
, object of the search in this case was the date of an old coin, and the
operator was trying to discover it by choosing from among the figures
on the table those of the proper date. While keeping my attention
fixed on a certain figure, I became a.ll at once aware that I was actually
trying to force the hand of my associate towards it, so powerfully did
the thought impel to the correspondent action."*
Notwithstanding this, Dr. McGraw does not believe the explanation
he has just given covers all the phenomena he witnessed, for he adds:
"It seemed to me that there were features in these exhibitions which
eould not be satisfactorily explained on the hypothesis of involuntary
muscular action, for • • • . we are required to believe a man
oould unwillingly, and in spite of himself, give infonnation by uncon-
scious and involuntary signs that he could not give under the same
circumstances by voluntary and conscious action. . . . . It seems
to me there is a hint towards the possibility of the nervous system of
• The experience of all who have carefully attended to their IleDAtioua whilat.
makiDC Bimi1ar kiala, will ooDirm this observation.
Digitized by Google
16 Repon of Oommitf.ee on Tkougkf-Reatling_ [July 17,
one individual being used by the active will of another to accomplish
certain simple motions.. There would be nothing inherently impossible
in this when we recollect the strong similarities that exist between
nervous and electrical forces; and as we know, it is possible to generate
. induced currents of electricity in coils of wire that are near to a p~
electric coil; 80 we can imagine the nervous current to be continued
into [induced in1] another body and act thereupon the automatic centres
of action. .. The whole matter, however, needs as yet the
most careful investigation before the phenomena can even be accepted
as genuine."
Dr. Beard, of New York, professes to have supplied this need, aIJ.d
in various papers-on "Trance," on the "Scientific Basis of Delusion,"
on "The Physiology of Mind Reading," &c.-published in the American
"Popular Science Monthly" for 1876, 1877, and 1879, has, according r-
to the high authority of Professor Croom Robertson (Natwre,
July 14th, 1881), "given a varied record of lacts,and a
series of carefully drawn conclusions." We have carefully read
what Dr. Beard has written, and failed to find much more
than a singular exhibition of self-assertiveness; coupled with &
marked disregard of many eminent names in the past and present
records of scientific.inquiry. Dr. Beard tells us that after incredible
labour he has discovered six sources of elTOr open to all who experiment
with living human beings. ~, All of these elTOrs are to be recognised,
and systematically, and, if possible, simultaneously guarded against, if
our results are to command the confidence and homage of science."
These six sources of erITOr are as follows :-.
1. Tlte pllenornena 0/ the involuntary lifo in bot!. tlte experim6nter
and the subject,-embracing under this head trance, as well as all .actions
below the plane of consciousness.
2. Unconscious deception on the part of tl'6 8ubj6(ft e:r:peri-
mented on, which appears to be a particular instance. of the genera:
statement given in the first elTOr.
3. Intentional cleceptiO'n on the part ofthe ~ect; experiments must
be made without any regard to the moral character of the subject.
4. Unintentional collusion 0/ third parlie8;-meaning by this
bystanders or assistants, seen or unseen; to avoid this, the experiments
must be made privately, or the audience kept 8?solutely silent~
5. Intentional collusion 0/ tl.ird .parties, i.e., assistance designedly
given; difficult to guard against, for, as Dr. Beard remarks, intentional
and deliberate deception is more common among the better classes than
is generally imagined.
fi. Ol/,O/M6 and coincidences. Concerning this last, Dr. Beard
remarks that the only way to eliminate this erro:r ,ia- .by_ waki~g ~1Jl-
Digitized by Google
1882.] Report oj Oommittee on Thought-Reading. 17
parative experiments with all the sources of error removed except
chance. " In this way," he continues, "it was shewn that mind-reading
1KHlalled, was really muscle-reading. In the, researches I made on
muscle-reading, it was shewn over and over that by pure chance only
the blindfold su~ject would, under certain conditions, find the
object looked for in one case, and sometimes in two cases out of
twelve."
The first two sourees of error are considered the most freq11f.lJlt ahel
fatal, and to guard effectively against them" two, and only two, things
are considered needful; one is a general knowledge of the phenomena.
of the involuntary life, and the other is so to deceive the subject experi-
mented on, that this involuntary action of his mind or body cannot
come in, and destroy the experiment." ,
But may not the experimenter himself be deceived by his foregone
conclusions 1 In fact, we venture to think Dr. Beard and others have
omitted one source of error more fatal to accuracy. in interpreting the
results obtained than perhaps any other. We allude' to the strong pre-
possessions with which the subject is approached, a prejudice which
concludes against their possibility, and which, if it does not preclude
inquiry, destroys all calmness and impartiality in viewing the facts. It
is undeniable that a strong mental bias in one direction is as objection.
able on the side of scepticism as on the side of credulity. In either case
it tends (1) to explain the facts in aCcordance with the mental bias,
which may be erroneous; (2) to produce an actual mental disturbance.
either perceptible or imperceptible, which in delicate mental operations
may really be as fatal to their success as slight air disturbances in t.he
indications of a galvanometer, or the introduction of a trace of a.
magnetic metal in the reading of a magnetometer."
Hesitation in accepting any facts so novel, and, in many ways,
suspicious, as mind-reading is, of course, perfectly justifiable; and we
are quite prepared to expect much criticism and prolonged experiment"
before any generalisation from the facts can meet with wide acceptance.
Our own researches have now extended over a period of several years,
and we have witnessed phenomena of more' or less interest in a great
variety of subjects. Broadly speaking, these phenomena may be
grouped under the following heads ;-
•An amlDing instance of the existenoe of mental prejudioe among eminent
scientifio menia given by the late Miss O. Fox, in her recently published journal;
she relates that the late Provost of Trinity College, Dublin, said to her, "When in
Dublin Sir W. Hamilton meutioned to Airey some striking mathematioal fact.
He p&usedamoment, when Airey interposed with' No, it cannot be.' Sir William
mildly remarked, 'I have been investigating it olosely for the last five months.
and cannot Qoubt ita truth.' 'But,' said Airey, 'I've been at it for the last fiVA
minutes, and cannot see it at 110111 '" Similar interlocutory remo.rks, and eV61J
published replies, are not unknown to the members of this Sub-Committee.
C
Digitized by Google
18 .Report of Committee on Thought-Beading. [July 17
I. Where some action is performed, the hands of the operator being
in gentle contact with the subject of the experiment.
II. Where a similar result is obtained with the hands not in contact.
III. Where a number, name, word, or card has been guessed and
expressed in speech or writing, Without contact, and apparently without
the possibility of the transmission of the idea by the ordinary channels
of sensation.
, IV. Where similar thoughts have simultaneously occurred, or'
impressions been made, in minds far apart.
I. Whenever the hands are in contact or even communicate by a
tense cord with the subject of the experiment, it is almost impossible to
.exclude giving faint indications to the guesser, which with a sensItive
subject are interpreted into a sense of rightness or wrongness that
ultimately may lead them to the hidden object,. "the communication,"
as .Dr. Carpenter remarks, "being made by unconscious muscular
action on the part of one person and automatically interpreted by the
other." The most familiar illustration of this is to be found in the
1J.villing game, which may be described in Dr. Carpenter's words, as
follows: "Several persons being assembled, one of them leaves ,the
room, and during his absence some object is hidden. On the absentee's
re-entrance, two persons who know the hiding-place stand, one on either
side of him, and establish some personal contact with him, one method
being to place one finger on the shoulder, while another is for each to
place a hand on his body. He walks about the room between the two
'willers,' and ge~era1ly succeeds before long in finding the hidden object,
being led towards it,.as careful observation and experiment have fully
proved, by the involuntary muscular action of his unconscious guides,
one or the other of them pressing more'heavily when. the object is on
his side, and the finder as involuntarily turning towards that side." ..
This well-known explanation doubtless accounts for very much that
is witnessed in family circles, and which goes under the name of
thought-reading. At the same time there is a difficulty in applying it
to those cases wherein the subject has frequently failed to accomplish a
simple task, and yet has accurately done a much more complicated one
often with singular promptness and decision. Some striking cases of
this kind will be found detailed in the Appendix to this report, but,
though surprising, they are not in themselves of sufficient value to
warrant an explanation by any new hypothesis. We therefore pass on
to the second group of cases :-
II. Wlwre actions are performed without contact with tlte person
willing.
• Carpenter'II"Mesmerism, Spiritualism, &e.," p.M.
Digitized by Google
1.882.] Reporf oj Committee on Thougllt-Beading.
\
19
Here the involuntary guidance by the eyes of thc rest of the party,
.()r other indications of an almost imperceptible cllaracter, are swiftly
and probably unconsciously interpreted by the guesser and lead him
hesitatingly to do what is being willed. We might abundantly illustrate
this type of cases from the mass of correspondence we have received
and from what we have ourselves witnessed. Some cases are referred
to in the Appendix. Even blindfolding the subject merely removes one
risk of error. The doubtful interpretation of the best results obtained in
this group has compelled us to attach comparatively little importance to
them, and accordingly we pass on to the next group :-
III. Wlte1'e some number, word, or card Itas been guessed apparently
'Witltout any ojtILe O'l"dina'MJ means of commttnicatio;~ between tI,e willer
and {fltesser.
Though the errors arising from muscle-reading or involuntary
guidance are here avoided, there arc other sources of conscious or
"Unconscious illusion to be gua.rc:led against. Collusion is one of the most
'Obvious, and anyone who has witnessed wllat can be clone by a code of
'Signals such as is employed by Mr. BisllOP,IF or l\Ir. Heller, br Mr.
Heriot with "Louie," will naturally distrust all observations where two
particular persons are necessary for the results obtained. Imperceptible
information may be given by one who knows the word selected, by means
'Of the Morse code used in electric telegraphy, the long and short signs
'being readily communicated by sight, SOllna, or touc11, as may be found
TCquisite. And where collusion is out of the question an obvious
danger lies in low whispering, or even soundll'ss movement of the lips;
whilst the faintest accent of approval or disapproval in question or
comment may give a hint as to whether the effort is tending in the
right direction, and thus guide to the mark by successive approximations.
Any exhibition of the kind before a promiscuous company is nearly sure
to be vitiated by one or other of these sources of error. It is obvious,
in fact, that precision can only be attained by repeated experimentation
in a limited circle of persons known to each other, and amenable to
scientific control.
. In the correspondence we have received there were two cases which
'lIecmed, upon illquiry, to be free from any JJrimdj(fcie objections, and
1.I.pparently illdicative of true thought-reading. One of these cases is
1dven in the Appelldix, p. 55, but as we cannot from personal observation
testify to the conditions under which the trials were made, we simply
leave it aside. The other case was that of a family in Derbyshire, with
whom we have had the opportullity of frequent and prolonged trials.t
* For Mr. Bishop also shews how anything can be intimated to a con-
federate by a code of questions and sounds.
t A preliminary note on this case was sent to Natul'o, and published in that
journal for July 7th, 1881.
e 2
Digitized by Google
20 1.leP01't of OOI!zmittee on TlwugM.Beading. [July 17,.
Our informimt was Mr. Oreery, a clergyman of unblemished'
character, and whose iIitegrity indeed has, it so happens, been excep-
tionally tested. He has a family of five girls, ranging no,,-
between the ages of ten and seventeen, all thoroughly healthy, os
free as possible from morbid or hysterical symptoms, and hi manner-
perfectly simple and chilcllike. The father stated that anyone of theso
children (except the youngest), as well as a young servant-girl who had
lived' with the family for two years, was frequently able to designate
,correctly, without contact or sign, a card or other object fixed on in the
child's absence. During the year which has elapsed since we first heard
of this family, seven visits, mostly of several days' duration, have been
paid to the town where they live, by ourselves and several scientifie
friends, and on these occasions daily experiments have been made.
The inquiry has taken place partly in Mr. Creery's house, and ---
partly in lodgings or in a private room of an hotel, occupied by some of
our number. Having selected at random one child, whom we desired
to leave the room and wait at some distance, we would choose a card
from a pack, or write on paper a number or a name which occurred to.
us at the moment. Generally, but not always, this was shewn to the
members of the family present in the room; but no one member was •
always present, and we were sometimes entirely alone. We then
~ecalled the child, one of us always assuring himself that, when the
door was suddenly opened, she was at a considerable distance,(in their own
house at the further end of a passage), though this was usually a super-
fluity of caution, as our habit was to avoid all utterance of what was
chosen. Before leaving the room the child had been informed of the
general nature of the test we intended to select, as "this will be a, card." "
or "this will be a name." On re-entering she stood-sometimes turned ' ~...
by us with her face to the wall, oftener with her eyes directed towards ,'.
the ground, and usually close to us and remote from her family-for a. :
period of silence varying from a few seconds to a minute, till she called •.
out to us some number, card, or whatever it might be. If this WII.P
incorrect, we usually allowed a second trial, and occasionally a third. '
To give an example: The following results were obtained on
the evening of April 12th, in the presence of two of our number and
the family. The first attempt of one of the children was to state
(without searching) the hiding-place of some small object, the place
h!l.ving been chosen by ourselves, with the full range of the house.
and then communicated to the other members.of the family. This
was effected in one case only out of four. The next attempt was
to give the name of some familiar object agreed on in the child's
ahsence, as "sponge," '" pepper-castor," &c. This was successful on a.
first trial in six cases out of fourteen. We then chose a cart! from
a full pack in the child's absence, and called upon her to name it
Digitized by Google
~882.] Repol·t of Oommittee on Tllotegllt-Readillg. 21
'On her return. This was successful at once in six cases out of
thirteen. We then tried holding small objects in the hand, as 0.
"latch-key," a "half-sovereign," a "green ball "-which were at once
rightly named in five cases out of six. A 11o.rder trial wo.s now
introduced. The maid-servant having left the room, one of us
'WrOte down the name "Michael Davitt," shewed it round, and then
put the paper in his pocket. The door was now opened and the girl
recalled from the end of the passage. She stood close to the door
'IIomid absolute silence, and with her eyes on the ground-all of Ufl
meanwhile fixing our attention on the appointed name-and gave
.after a few seconds the name "Michael;" and then almost immediately
"Davitt." To avoid any association of ideas, we then chose
imaginary names, made up by ourselves at the moment, as" Samuel
Morris," "John Thomas Parker," "Phrebe Wilson." The names were
.given correctly in toto at the first trial in five cases out of ten.
'Three cases were complete failures, and in two the names given
bQre a strong resemblance to those selected by us, "Jacob Williams"
"being given as "Jacob Wild," and "Emily Walker" as "'Enry Walker."
It was now getting late, and both we and the younger children
• "Were very tired; and four attempts to guess the name of a town in
England were all failures, though one of us had previously obtained
nmarkable success with this very experiment.
The results obtained when the family were present gain enormously
"in value if similar results can be shewn when none but strangers to the
!runily know the word or card selected, 01' when the child who is the
\ 'subject of the experiment is completely isolated from those who know
-the thing chosen. We will therefore describe two sedes of experiments
..~ of this character, which appear to us to be absolutely unexceptionable
.and conclusive, so far as they go.
"Easter, 1881. Present: Mr. and Mrs. Creery and family, and
W. F. Barrett, the narrator. One of the children was sent into an
.adjoining room, the door of which I saw was closed. On returning to
the sitting-room and closing its door also, I thought of some object in the
'house, fixed upon at random; writing the name down, I shewed it
to the family present, the stdctest silence being preserved throughout.
We then all silently thought of the name of the thing selected. In a'
few seconds the door of the adjoining room wo.s heard to open,
·and 'after a very short interval the child would enter the
:sitting-room, generally speaking with the object selected. Noone
was allowed to leave the sitting-room after the object had been fixed
upon; no communication with the child was conceivable o.s her place
was often changed. Further, the only instructions given to tile child
were to fetch some object in the house that I woulcl fix upon, and,
together with the family, silently keep in mind to the exclusion, as far
Digitized by Google
Report of Oommlttee on TlloufJkt·Reading.· [July 17,.
as possible, of all other ideas. In this way I wrote down, among othel'"
things, a ltair-brualt; it was brought: an orange; it was brought: a
wine glass; it W9.':I brought: an apple; it was brought: a toasting-fork ,-
failed on the first attempt, a pair of tongs being brought, but on
a second trial it was brought. With another child (among other trials
not here mentioned) a cnp was written down by me; it was brought ::
a saucer; this was a failure, a plate being brought; no second trial
allowed. The child being told it was a saucer, replied, 'That came
into my head, but I hesitated as I thought it unlikely you would name
saucer after cup as being too easy.' "
This last trial, some would think, shews pure guesswork, and'
invalidates the other results; but we prefer to let it stand, as, taken in
,conjunction with our experience obtained in other ways, it indicates-.
one source of failure, namely, that in delicate experiments of the kind'
here recorded (assuming them to be cases of thought transmission) the-
slightest effort of reason, or of will, on the part of the subject is
sufficient to vitiate the suecess of the experiment. No doubt the chief"
source of failure is to be found in the difficulty of suppressing the more
vivid impressions made on the mind by the ordinary channels of"
sensat.ion. We may compare this to the action of a die in stam,.ping ;
light pressure of the die will yield 0. delicate and faithful impl1lSsion, or
a blurred and imperfect one, or none at all, according to the nature of
.the material that is stamped, or the prior existence of any deeply cut
impression.
The second series of experiments, which we venture to think are
unexceptionable, were made by Mr. Myers and Mr. Gurney, together-
with two ladies who were entire strangers to the family. None of the
family knew what we had selected, the type of thing being told only to·
the child chosen to guess. The experimenters took every precaution
in order that no indication, however slight, should reach the child. She·
was recalled by one of the experimenters and stood near the door with
downcast eyes. IIi this way the following results were obtained. The·
thing selected is printed in italics, and the only words spoken duriI1g.
the experiment are put in parentheses :-
" Experiments made on April 13th, 1882:
Objects to be named.
A W1tite Penknife.-Correctly named, with the colour, the first trial.
Box 0/ Almonds.-Correctly named.
Tkreepenny piece.-Failed.
Box o/Olwcolate.-Button-box said; no second trial given.
Penknife ltiddtm.-Failed to name the place.
Numbers to be named.
It'ive.-Correctly given the first trial.
Fow·teen.-Failed.
Digitized by Google
-"
1882.] Jleport oj Oommittee on Tkougllt-1,leadillfJ,
Tllirty-three.-54 (No). 34 (No). 33 (Right).
Sirx:ty-eigllt.-58 (No). 57 (No). 78 (No).
Fictitious names to be.guessed.
MartlUJ BiliingB.-Failed; Biggis was said.
CatlUJrine SfnW...-Catherine Shaw said.
Henry Cowper.-Failed.
Cards to be named.
Two ofclubs.-Right first time.
Queen ofdiamonds.-Right first time.
Four of Bpacles.-Failed.
Fot£r of hearts.-Right first time.
King of hearts.-Right first time.
Two ofdiamonds.-Right first time.
Ace of hearts.-Right first time.
Nine of Bpades.-Right first time.
23
Five of diamonds.-Four of diamonds (No). Four of hearts (No).
. Five of diamonds (Right).
Two of Bpades.-Right first time.
Eigltt of diamonds.-Ace of diamonds said; no second trial
given.
Tltree of ltllarts.-Right first time.
Five of clubs.-Failed.
Ace of Bpades.-Failed."
The chances against success in the case of anyone card are, of
course, 51 to 1, assumingthat there is no such thing as thought-~ing,
and that errors of experiment are avoided. Special precautions were
taken to avoid such errors of experiment as are described by Dr. Beard,
and the results shew that in the case of cards, out of fottrteen successive
trials nine were guessed rightly the first time, and only three trials can be
said to have been complete failures. On none of these occasions was it
even remotely possible for the child to obtain by any ordinary means a
knowledge of the card selected. Our own facial expression was the
only index open to her; and even if we had not purposely looked as
neutral as possible, it is difficult to imagine how we could have
unconsciously carried, say, the two of diamonds written on OUI·
foreheads.
Now, if· we apply to these two sets of experiments the souret'.s of
error enumerated by Dr. Beard, the conclusion, we venture to think, is
inevitable that we lui.ve here very strong evidence in favour of a class
of phenomena entirely new to science. Involuntary actions, such as
movement of the lips, &c., could not reach the child when she was od
Digitized by Google
24 Report oj Committee on Thougltt-ReRding. [July 17,
of sight and hearing, as was the case in the first series of experiments.
Conscious or ~tnconscious deception on the part of the subject does not
apply, as the thing wished for was selected and written down by one of
us. Collnsion by a third party is avoided by the fact that none were
a!lowed to enter or leave the room after we had selected the thing to be
guessed, and in the second series of experiments by the exclusion of
all members of the family, either from the room, or from participation
in the requisite knowledge"'; whilst chance and coincidence we havo
already dealt with. In many trials, such as the guessing ~f fictitious
names, made up by us on the spur of the moment, the chances against
success were, of course, incalculable; yet, as will be seen by the
following record taken from our last day's experimenting, these names
were guessed with as much ease as cards, where the chances against
success were far less.
In the following experiments the thing selected was known to the
family, who, however, never left their places after we had written down
. the word and silently handed it round, or drawn a card, exposed it, and
then replaced it in absolute silence. The child was now recalled by one
of~t8, and, as before, stood in complete silence near the door, no son1uls
.nor movements nor int61'rO!latory remarks of any /';ind by anyone being
lJennitted. There were present Mr. Gurney and Mr. Myers (Professor
Barrett having left the day before), and the family.
Moming of April 17th, 1882 :
Cards to be named, drawn at random from a full pack. The card
selected is printed ill italics, the guesses are given in Roman type,
and the only remarks made, and those were by us, are put in paren·
theses.
Five of clttbs.-King of hearts (No). Five of clubs (Right).
1'wo of spades.-Two of spades (Right).
Five of spades.-Four of diamonds (No).
Tltree of spades.-Three of hearts (No). Ace of spades (No).
Five of clubs.-Four of clubs (No). Ace of clubs (No).
Two of spades.-Two of clubs (No). Three of clubs (No).
Eigltt of spades.-Eight of clubs (No). Eight of spades (Right~
Knave of ltearts.-c-Knave of hearts (Right).
Six of ltearts.-Six of clubs (No). Seven of clubs (No).
Eigltt of ltearts.-Seven of hearts (No). Seven of clubs (No).
Ace of clubs.-Queen of clubs (No). Ace of clubs (Right).
Two of clubs.-'fwo of ciubs (Right).
... In subsequent expeliments we obtained successful results by individual
t;nals with each (If the children, t;hat is to say, the number, word or card was
known to some one of llS only.
igitized byGoogl
1882.] Rf'pol·t of Oommittee on Tllought-Reading. .25
StfIJ6'II, oj kearta.-Two of diamonds (No). Three of hearts (No)
Two oj apades.-Two of clubs (No). Two of spades (Right).
Six cif diam0nd8.-Six of clubs (No). Six of diamonds (Right).
Tlvree oJ1Ularta.-Four of hearts (No). Three of hearts (Right).
Eiglte oj diamonds.-Five of diamonds (No). Seven of diamonds
(No).
Eigltt oj spades.-Nine of spades (No). Ten of spades (No).
Eight of spades (Right).
King oj apades.-King of clubs (No). Knave of clubs (No).
King of diamonds (No).
Three cif apades.-Three of spades (Right).
K'TW1D8 oj diam0nd8.-King of diamonds (No). Knave of diamonds
(Right).
Nins cif apades.-Nine of spades (Right).
Ten cif clttb•.-Ten of hearts (No). Queen of hearts (No).
TMee of diamcmds.-Three of diamonds (Right).
Six of apades.-Six of spades (Right).
Ten of diamor/,ds.-Ten of diamonds (Right).
K'TW/De cif diamor/,ds.-Ace of diamonds (No).
The trials so far wcre principally with the two children Maud and
Alice; the eldest sister, Mary, was now tried, with the following
rcsults, every ea;periment being given in the order it was made.
Six ofspacles.-Eight of clubs (No). Eight of spades (No)•
.Ace of diamonds.-Ace of diamonds (Right).
Queen of lUJarta.-Queen of hearts (Right).
Two of clttbs.-Two of clubs (Right).
Ten oj apacles.-Ten of spades (Right).
Ten of diamonds.-Ten of diamonds (Right).
Five oj apacles.-Five of spades (Right).
Two cif spacles.':"-'Two of spades (Right).
Five cif diamonds.-Five of diamonds (Right).
Three of clttbs.-Four of clubs (No). Five of clubs (No). Three
of clubs (Right).
King of clttbs.-Ace of diamonds (No). Knave of clubs (No).
King of clubs (Right).
Five of spades.-Four of spades (No). Five of spades (Right).
-Seven cif diamonds.-Five of diamonds (No). Five of clubs (No).
Seven of diamonds (Right).
-Queen of apades.-Queen of spades (Right).
Six of apacles...:.....Six of spades (Right).
Tltree of spades.-Four of spades (No). Three of spades (Right).
Knave of diamonds.-Acfl of diamonds (No). Knave of diamonds
(Right).
Digitized by Google
26 Report of Oommittee'on Tkougkt.BefMing. [July lit
Eight oJltearts.-Nine of hearts (No). Eight of hearts (Right).
Nine oj dia1l1onds.-Nine of diamonds (Right).
K9uwe of clubs.-King of clubs (No). Knave of clubs (Right).
Four oj clttbs.-Four of clubs (Right).
Him oJltearts.-Five of hearts (No). Nine of hearts (Right).
1.wo oj clttbs.-Two of clubs (Right).
Sia; ojclttbs.-Six of clubs (Right).
King ojclttbs.-Knave of clubs (No). King of clubs (Right).
Him oJltearts.-Nine of diamonds (No). Nine of hearts (Right).
Pffi of clubs.-Ten of clubs (Right).
.AC6 oj clubs.-Ace of clubs (Right).
Five ojclubs.-Five of clubs (Right).
Seven oj clubs.-Five of diamonds (No). Seven of clubs (Right).
K9UJve oj hearts.-Knaveof clubs (No). Knave of_diamonds (No).
Knave of hearts (Right).
Fictitious words were now chosen; during some of these trials Mr.
Creery was absent. Miss Mary was the guesser in the first five trials,
then Maud was selected; the words chosen are agaiu indicated by
italics:- .
Willia'llt Stubbs.-William Stubbs.
Eliza Holmes.-Eliza H--.
Isaac Harding.-Isa.a.c Harding.
SOlJltia SIUJw.-Sophia. Shaw.
lIester lVillis.-Oassandra., then Hester Wilson.
Joltn Jones.-John Jones.
Pimotk!l Paylar.-Tom, then Pi'llWtlty Taylor.
Estl£er Ogle.-Esther Ogle.
.A'1'tltur Higgins.-Arthur Higgins.
.Alfred lIe'1Ulerson.-Alfred Henderson.
.Amy Frogmare.-Amy Freemore. Amy Frogmore.
Albert Snelgrove.-Albert Singrore. Albert Grover.
In estimating our successes and failures, partial success is counted
as a failure; thus, seven of diamonds given instead of eight of diamonds,
is counted wrong, and so in the names, Wilson given instead .of Willis,
and Grover instead of Snelgrove, are counted as failures.
The outline of results during the present investigation, which
extended over six days, stands as follows :-Altogether 382 trials were
made. In the case of letters of the alphabet, of cards, and of numbers
of two figures, the chances against success on a first trial would
naturally be 25 to 1, 51 to 1, and 89 to 1, respectively; in the case
of surnames they would of course be indefinitely greater. Oards wer&
Digitized by Google
1882.] Beport of Oommittee on Tllought-Beading.
far most frequently employed, and the odds in their case may be
taken as a fair medium sample; according to which, out of the whole
series of ,382 trials, the average number of successes at the first attempt:
by an ordinary guesser would be 71. Of our trials 127 were successes
on the first attempt, 56 on the second, 19 on the third, making 202 in.
all. On most of the occasions of failure, 180 in number, second trials
were made; but in some cases the guesser professed inability, and
declined to make more than one, and in others we' allowed three; no-
trial beyond the third was ever allowed. During the last day or two
of trial, after it had occurred to us to notice the point, we found that
of the failures to guess a card at the first trial, those wrong both in
suit and number were a small minority.
Our most striking piece of success, when the thing solected was.
divulged to none of the family, was five cards running named correctly-
on a first trial ; the odds against this happening once in our sories were,
considerably over a nillion to 1. We had altogether a good many-
~milar batches, the two longest runs being 8 consecutive successes,
once with cards and once with names; where the adverse odds in the-
former case were over 142 millions to 1, and in the latter something
incalculably greater. If we add to these results others obtained on:..
previous visits, it seems not too much to say that the hypothesis of:
mere coincidence is pmctically excluded.
We are aware that the exceptional nature of this inquiry goes far t~.
invalidate arguments founded on character and demeanour; and on.
tbis head, therefore, will only state our conviction that any candid critic,
present during the whole course of the experiments, would have carried
away a far more vivid impression of their genuineneSl! than the bare·
printed record can possibly convey. Of more real importance is the
hypothesis of exalted sensibility of the ordinary sense organs. We-
could discover no indication of this in any of its known forms; but bY.
way ot prellaution, as has been already stated, we commonly avoided
even whispering any word, number, or name that we had selected; and
the position of the excluded child, when the door was opened, would in
every case have satisfied the most exacting critic. The explanation
which might be Bought in unconscious indications given by the sitters,
and especially in thc movement of the lips, has been already adverted to.
Coming as we did to this investigation with considerable previous..
experience of the same kind, we were throughout strictly on our guard
against giving such indications ourselves; the possibility of their-
being given by the family was of course excluded where the family·
were ignorant of the selected word or thing; and on th~ remaining
occasions our perpetual vigilant watch never detected a trace of any-
thing of the kind. The absolute docility of the children-both tho-
suesser and the others-in taking any position in the room that we-
Digitized by Google
'28 Report of Oommit~ee on Tkought-Reading. [July 17,
indicated, was naturally an assistance to our precautions. It may be
further mentioned that, on a previous visit made by one of us, the
'child called the required name through the shut door or from an
adjoining room, having thus been completely isolated from the very
.beginning to the very end of the experiment.
It must be remembered that our great pre-occupation throughout
'Was to guard a.ga.i.nst delusion. Had' the phenomena been sufficiently
~stablished to allow of a systematic search for their underlying laws,
we might have preferred a more unvarying method of experimentation;
but in this preliminary stage it seemed desirable to meet pri'flU1,facie
possibilities of ~eception by frequent and unexpected changes of the
various conditions. At the same time we endeavoured to gather such
indications as we could of the way in which the impression flashed on
the mind of the child.
The first question concerns the respective parts in the phenomena
played by mental e1Je and mental ear. Among the experiments which
we have counted asfailwres were very many where the number or card
selected was guessed, as it were, piecemeal For instance, the number
35 was selected, and the guesses were 45 and 43. So 57 was attempted
as 47 and 45. So with cards: the seven of diamonds being chosen the
guesses were six of diamonds and seven of hearts; the three of spades
being chosen, the guesses were queen of spades and three of diamonds.
These cases seem somewhat in favour of mental eye, the similarity
in BOund between three and thirty in 43 and 35, or between five and
, fifty in 45 and 57, not being extremely strong; while the pict'l1/l'e of the
3 or the 5 is identical in either pair. A strongerargument on the same
side is the frequent guessing of king for knave, and vice versd. On
·the other hand, names of approximate sound (also reckoned as failures)
'Were often given instead of the true ones; as " Chester" for Leicester.
." Biggis" for Billings. Frogmore was guessed first as "Freemore";
;Snelgrove was given as "Singrore," the last part of the name was soon
.given as "Grover," and the attempt was then abandoned; the child
remarking afterwards that she thought of " Snail" as the first syllable,
but it had seemed to her too ridiculous. One of us has, moreover,
:.successfully obtained from the maid-servant a German word of which
.she could havo formed nO visual image. The children's own account is
usually to the effect that thoy "seem to see" the thing; but this,
perhaps, does not come to much, as a known object, however suggested,
;is sure to be instantly visualised.
Another question would be as to the effect of greater or less
<distance between the sitters and the guesser, and of the intervention of
obstacles. It will have been seen that, in the experiments conducted
by one of us on a former occasion, the intervention of a door or wall
'seemed to make no difference. It would be interesting, ~rra.in, ~
Digitized by Google
1882.] Report 0/ Oommittee on Thougkt-Readb,g.
discover whether numerical increase in the observers increases the effoot~
and how far the presence of special persons is influential. In our
experience the presence of the father-though by no means essential
and very often dispensed with-seemed decidedly to increase the-
percentage of successes. -
A still more interesting o.nd important question concerns such
conditions of -success and failure as may lie in the circumstances,
disposition, general capacity, and mood of the subject, including such.
}lOints as consanguinity and familiarity with members of the circle, and
also in the temper and manner of the latter. We are dealing, not with
chemical substances, but with childish minds, liabie to be reduced to
shyness and confusion by anything in the aspect -or demeanour of-
visitors which inspires distaste or alarm. The importance of "a childly
way with children," and the slightness of ,the differences of Dianner-
which will either paralyse them into stupidity or evoke unexpected.
intelligence and power, are commonplaces to anyone whose duties have-
lain among them; and attention to such points may be as prime a factor-
of success in these delicate experiments as any other.
The delicacy of the conditions was illustrated in our own inquiry'
partly by the -inexplicable fluctuations of success and failure affecting;
the whole household, partly by the wide difference observed in the
capacities of particular members of it from day to day. The common
notion that simplicity, and even comparative -blankness of mind, are
important conditions, seems somewhat doubtfully borne out by our-
experience; but of the favourable effect of freedom from constraint, and-
of a spice of pleasurable excitement, we can speak with entire assurance..
The particular iIi-success of a sitting which we held one close afternoon
was attributed by the children themselves-and it seemed to us correctly-
-to inertness after their early dinner.
We could find no resemblances between these phenomena and those-
known as mesmeric; inasmuch as a perfectly normal state on the part of
the subject seemed our first pre-requisite. Nor did we find any evidence-
that "streIloath of will" haS any particular effect, except so far as.
both subject and circle may exercise it in patient attention. On one or two
occasions it seemed of Advantage to obtain vivid simultaneous realisatiox.
of the desired word on the part of all the sitters; which is most easily
effected if some one slowly and gently claps time, and all mentally-
summon up the word with the beats.
Many further lines of the investigation suggest themselves; for
instance, a great step would be made if a more complex idea, and one-
not habitually expressed by one definite sound or set of sounds, could be-
transmitted. An immense number of accurately recorded experiments
will be necessary for the establishment of such special points; and
possibly the present instalment may serve in some degree to stimulate
Digitized by Google
30 Report of Committee on Thofegld-Readr-nr;r., [July 11",
and concentrate various inquiries in the same direction, which, though
widely spread, seem so far to have been for the most part of a lax and
fitful sort. The material for lmch inquiries, as may be surmised from
the present record, must be in large proportion children, who are
fortunately not rare, and who may be congratulated on so grand an
opportunity for combining utility with amusement.
The primary aim in all cases must be to get the results witltOut
pltysical contact or anything approaching it, a stage to which some
practice with contact may be a. necessary preliminary; in no other way
ean the hypothesis of "muscle-reading" be with certainty eliminated;
while en revanclte, the phenomena without contact, if once established,
will afford solid ground for questioning the sufficiency of that hypothesis
to account for all cases in which contact occurs.
As already mentioned our observations with this family have had
the advantage of being confirmed by scientific and other friends.
.. Professor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S., and Professor Alfred Hopkinson,
M.A., have paid two or three visits to Buxton and the result of their
experiments will be found in a subsequent paper. Before we pass from
this part of our report we wish to express our sincere thanks to Mr. and
J\frs. Creery for the kind and ready way in which they permitted us to
conduct these experiments, at our own times and in our own way, giving
them often, we fear, no little t.rouble and inconvenience..
We now come to the fourth group of cases.
IV. Wlll!re similar tltOng7tts lwve sim1dtaneously occttrrea or
-impressions been ?nade in minds jar apart, without any known ?neam
-oj cOlnm1tnication.
Several cases of" this kind have reached us, but they rest upon the
testimony of others, and though we have no reason to doubt the
-accuracy of our informants, the evidence has necessarily a lower rank
than the preceding. The following cases may be taken as a sample of
other statements that have come to our knowledge. 'Ve are acquainted
with, but not a.t liberty to publish, the names in the first case, which is
-xelated by the wife of General Rr-.
"On September 9th, 1848, at the siege of Mooltan, Major-General
'R--, C.B., then adjutant of his regiment, was most severely and
dangerously wounded, and supposing himself dying, asked one of the
-officers with him to take the ring off his finger and send it to his wife,
who, at the time, was fully 150 miles distant, at Ferozepore.
"On the night of September 9th, 1848, I was lying on my bed,
between sleeping and waking, when I distinctly saw my husband being
carried off the field, seriously wounded, and heard his voice saying.
'Take this ring off my finger, and send it to my wife.' All the next
1la.y I could not get the sight or the voice out of my mind. In due time
igitized byGoogl
1882.J RepQrt of Oommittee on Tkougld-Readif1tJ. 31
I heard of General R- having been severely wounded ill the assault
on Mooltan. He survived, however, and is still living. It was not for
some time after the siege that 1 heard from Colonel ~; the officer
who helped to carry General R- off the field, that the request as to
the ring was actually made to him, just as 1 had heard it at Ferozepore .
.-at that very time.-M. A. R."
"LESLIE LoDGE, EALING, W., October 10th, 1876.
"DEAn SIR,-The circumstance about which you inquire is as
follows :-1 had left my house, ten miles from London, in the
morning as usual, and in the course of the day was on my way to
Victoria Street, Westminster, having reached Buckingham Palace,
when in attempting to cross the road, recently made muddy and
1!lippery by the water cart, 1 fell, and was nearly run over by a
-carriage coming in an opposite direction. The fall and the fright
'Shook me considerably, but beyond that 1 was uninjured. On
reaching home 1 found my wife waiting anxiously, and this is what
she related to me: She was occupied wiping Il. cup in the kitchen,
which she suddenly dropped, exclaiming, 'My God! he's hurt.'
Mrs. S., who was near her," heard the cry, and both agreed as
to the details of time and so forth. 1 have often asked my wife
why she cried out, but she is unable to explain the state of her
feelings beyond saying, 'I don't kUf)w why ; 1 felt some great danger
was near you.' These are simple facts, but other :things more
puzzling have happened in connection with the singular intuitions
~f my wife,-Yours truly,
"T. W. SlUTH."
The next case is more remarkable; our informant is a medical man,
.Mr. C. Ede, of Guildford, to whom the incident" was related both by
Lady G. and her sister.
co Lady G. and her sister had been spending the evening with their
lllother, who was in her usual health and spirits when they left her.
In the middle of the night the sister awoke in a fright, and said to her
husband, 'I must go to my mother at once; d9 order the carriage. I am
sure she is taken ill.' The husband, after trying in vain to convince his
wife that it was only a fancy, ordered the carriage. As she /Was
approaching her mother's house, where two roads meet, she saw Lady
G.'s carriage. When they met, each asked the other why she was there.
The same reply was made by both. ' 1 could not sleep, feeling sure my
mother was ill, and so 1 came" to see.' As they came in sight of the
house, they saw their mother's confidential maid at the door, who told
them when they arrived, that their mother had been taken suddenly ill,
and was dying, and had expressed an earnest wish to see her
daughters."
Digitized by Google
Report of Oommittee on Tkought-Reading. [July 17.
The following interesting letter from Mr. Ede accompanied this
narrative.
WONEBSH LoDGE, '
GUILDFORD, SURREY,
August 29th, 18'1'1.
DEAR Sm,-The foregoing incident was told me as a simple narrative-
of what happened, both by Lady G. and her sister. The mother was &.
lady of Btrong will, and always had great influence over her daughters.
I, myself, have been persuaded that impreBBions and thoughts might
be transmitted by the action of a powerful will upon Bensitive' brains at
a distance, by Bome experiments which I made in mesmerism, being at first
a Btrong disbeliever in all theBe things, and only cOnvinced when teBting
the aaaertions of others. There must, it would seem, be BOme previoua
relation between the two brains, lIB in states of anxiety for the absent, or
powerful longing. May not a material vibration in a strong brain affect
ar.other by itB vibration, as light at a distance acta upon the retina of the
eye, or sound upon the ear 1 We know that many BOunds escape us if
our attention be not directed to them, and, likewise, many objects may
not be perceived. It is CUriOUB in the case of Lady G. and her sister, that
both impreBBions were made in the night, when the atteniion was not
diverted by Burrounding Bights or Bounds.
This may have had Bome connection with the following incident which
happened to myself lately. There iB a house about half-a-mile from my own~
inhabited by Bome ladieB, friends of our family. They have a large alarm
bell outside their house. One night I awoke Buddenly and said to my wife,
" I am Bure I hear Mrs. F.'B alarm bell ringing." After listening for Bome-
time we heard nothing, and I went to sleep again. The next day Mrs. F.
called upon my wife, and said to her, "We were wishing for your hUBband
last night, for we were alarmed by thieveB. We were all up, and I was
about to pull the alarm bell, hoping he would hear it, saying to mydaughters,
I am Bure it will soon bring your hUBband, but we did not ring it." My wife-
asked what time it was; Mrs. F. said it was about half-past one. That was
the time I awoke thinking I heard the bell.
I could also give you many inBtanceB of the communication to another 1
of a strong wish on my part, although unuttered, and unaccompanied by any
geBture, or hint by look or action. I have often been amused at a concert,
or other place of meeting, to Bingle out BOme person who has their back to-
nle, and will them to tum their head in a given direction towardB me, and
generally I Bucceed.. It is common enough to have the same thoughts,
spoken by two people simultaneously, but, though the previous conversation
might often !lUggeBt like ideas, I think it would not be difficult to Bift out.
the CaseB of direct mental impreBBions from those of coincidence, BuggestiOn,
or Bequence of thought arising from Burrounding causes. When I have been
strongly wishing to see a friend it conBtantly happens tlmt he appears. May
not the many extraordinary cases of apparitionB be but the mental pictures
produced by other minds on a BenBitive Bubject 1 There is a well-known case
recorded in the Colonial papers which support, this view.
Yours truly,
CHARLES EDlL
Digitized by Google
1882] Beport 0/ Oommitteo on TliOught-Beading.
The Australian case to which Mr. Me refers we have heard from
different sources. If it be not a myth it is akin to the well-known
case ofZchokke, which, if established, might throw much light upon
apparitions. This subject we propose to deal with later, as it is beyond
the scope of the present report.
It is obvious that any conclusions worth recording must rest upon a.
large induction of cases that cannot be obtained at will. We are.
therefore, in a large measure dependent upon the testimony of
correspondents, and would invite further information, which may be
sent to any of us,* or to the secretary of the Society for
tr&llSIDission to us. .
We cannot pretend that this inquiry is as yet more than in its
infancy, and we would deprecate the premature formation of theories
on the subject. The phenomena here described are so unlike any
which have been brought within the sphere of recognised science. as
to subject the mind to two opposite dangers. Wild hypotheses as
to how they happen are confronted. with equally wild assertions that
they cannot happen at all. Of the two, the assumption of d priori
impossibility is, perhaps,' in the present state of our knowledge of
Nature, the most to be deprecated; though it cannot be considered in
any way surprising.
At the same time it may serve to disarm purely d priori criticism
if we point out that the word "thought-reading" is merely used as a.
popular and provisional description, and is in no way intended to .
exclude an explanation resting on a physical basis. It is quite open to
surmise some sort of analogy' to the familiar phenomena of the
transmission and reception of vibratory energy. A swinging pendulum
suspended from a solid support will throw into synchronous vibration
another pendulum attached to the same support if the period of
oscillation of the two be the same; the medium of transmission here
being the solid material of the support. One tuning-fork or string in
unison with another will communicate its impulses through the medium
of the air. Glowing particles of a gas, acting through the medium
of the luminiferous ether, can throw into sympathetic vibration cool
molecules of the same substance at a distance. A permanent magnet
brought into a room will throw any surrounding iron into a condition
similar to its own ; and here the medium of communication is unknown,
though the fact is undisputed. Similarly, we may conceive. if w~
please, with many modem philosophers, that for every thought there is
a corresponding motion of the particles of the brain, and that this
vibration of molecules of brain-stuft' may be communicated to an
intervening medium, and so pasa under certain circumstances from one
* For postal address Bee list of members.
Digitized by Google
34 . Report 0/ Oommittee on Thought-Reading.. [July 11,
brain to another, with a corresponding simultaneity of impressions.
No more than in the case of the magnetic phenomena is any investigator
bound to determine the mediumbefore inquiring into the fact of transit.
On the other hand, the possibility must not be overlooked that further
advances along the lines of research here indicated may, and we believe
will, necessitate a modification of that general view of the relation of
mind to matter t<> which modem science has long been gravikting.
..
1882.] Note on Tkotloltt-RcadiIlO.
NOTE ON THOUGHT-READING.
"Ey BALFOUR STEWART, LL.D., F.R.S., &c., Professor of Physics at
the Owens College, Manchester.
[.~ead to tlUJ Society, July 17, 1882}
After the exhaustive report that we have had from Professor
Barrett upon thought-reading, I shall only trouble you with a very'
"few remarks. As one who has been engaged more in physical
.science than in anything else, I may perhaps be allowed to give an
illustration from physical science that has reference to the best method
'Of obtaining evidence of infrequent phenomena:
It so happens that there is in science a phenomenon that has been
frequentiy observed by trustworthy observers, but that until very recently
has hardly been accepted at all as anything that could possibly have
occurred. I allude to the ease of globular lightning. It was said in
'Objection to all the evidence with reference to globular lightning, that
is to say, a thunder-bolt travelling at a slow rate, and afterwards
exploding and giving rise to lightnings of the ordinary kind, that
what occurs is an electric discharge, and that all electric discharges
must necessarily take place in a moment of time inapprecial)ly
~l Of late years, however, some physicists have suggested
that this globular lightning, instead of being an ordinary electric
discharge, is really a sort of travelling Leyden jar, and I believe
'One foreign observer has shewn in some experiments that something
analogous to that on a small scale may be artificially produced.
I think I am entitled to say that a change of tone has consequently
taken place amongst physicists with regard to the evidence for globular
lightning. The evidence of course remains as before. A little additional
evidence accumulates now and then, but the great bulk remains as it
was. The fact that we are able to explain this phenomenon without over-
throwing entirely our received Views on electricity, has certainly enabled
people to accept evidence:that they would not have accepted before.
Thus we see that the reason why this evidence was not accepted before
was because the hypothesis with regard to electric discharges was
insufficient. We imagined that there could not be anything but an
ordinary electric discharge: we did not imagine the possibility of what
may be called a travelling Leyden jar. .
Now there is no question, I think, thatthe ordi~ary way in which we
have communications from one human being to another, is by means of
~
Digitized by Google
36, Prof. Balfour Stewllrt. [July 17~
what may be called the five senses. Noon&, of course, disputes that; but
I do not know that this fact, any more than any other scientific fact, or
any scientific law, should be taken as absolutely final and complete.
Scientific experience has always shewn thatwego from one generalisation
to another. First of all we bind together a number of facts by what may be
called a working hypothesis, which we may call a generalisation of the first
order. Afterwards we find that there are sli~ht departures from this
working hypothesis, and then we ~re led to reHect on these departures,
and are ultimately led to a higher law. Now if we were to treat this first
generalisation or working hypothesis as something absolutely final, we
should be able to gain no more information upon the subject. Surely it
would not be the right way for anyonewho has come to a first generalisa-
tion to set his face against all extensiollS of it, neither making extensions.
himself nol' trusting to the evidence of any others who may profess to
have done so.
But this is exactly the position taken up by certain physiologists
with regard to the possibility of thought-reading. It has been
recognised throughout the world,-and all of us who are here.
recognise it as completely as any,-that the five senses are the ordinary
and established means by which communicatiollS are made; but
that physiologists should regard this as an absolutely final and complete
statement is decidedly against all scientific analogy, and that they should
decline, as some have done, to see experiments themselves or refuse credit
to those who have done so, is to pursue a very objectionable method. I
quite think that the mode in which our Chairman has put it is the best
possible mode. We have, as he said, to bring evidence in such a way
before the public that they must either believe the phenomena or be-
compelled to say, "'Ve do not trust those who brought them forward ; ,~
and I think that in this respect the report that has been read by
Professor Barrett, and the observations made by him and Mr. l\lyers.
and Mr. Gurney, have certainly succeeded wonderfully well The only
possible way of disputing the evidence is by hinting at the untrust-
worthiness of those gentlemen who have given it, and cOllSequently I
think their efforts must be regarded as successful
Professor Barrett, Mr. Gurney, and Mr. Myers have, as I
have said, put things in such a way that if they are to be-
denied you must dispute the trustworthiness of those gentlemen..
ProfessQr Hopkinson and myself have not perhaps obtained equally
conclusive results; we had not the same time to devote to the inquiry.
We, however, obtained results which neither of us was able to account
for by any received hypothesis.
Our experiments were made in the same house and with the
same host, and they are valuable, I think, at any rate, in confirming
the conclusiollS arrived at by those gentlemen from their experiments.
Digitized by Google
1882.] Note on Tkougld-Reading. 3'7
If they are to be disputed on account of untrustworthiness, it is
clear that the charge of untrustworthiness must be extended so as
either to embraee Professor Hopkinson and myself, or the gentleman
who was kind enough to give us the opportunity of seeing the e~peri­
ments performed-perhaps to include us all-but I eo not think: that
.any of us will mind that very much.
I should like to say a word with regard to the last series of phenomena
-or the extension of thought-reading at a distance, which Professor
"Barrett brought before the meeting; I have devoted a great deal of
attention to reading evidence on this particular point, and I certainly
think that if we can rely upon evidence at all we have hero a very strong
"body of evidence for some kind of action at-a distance, particularly for
the appearance of one individual to another at a distant· place at the
time of death. The reason for my bringing up this case is that while
there is very strong evidence for something of the kind, I have been
much surprised that it has not been put upon such a footing as would
certainly commend itself to all men of science fro~ without. Of course,
"jt is a matter of delicacy for an individual who has received a
communication of this kind to make it public, but it would be a great
"boon and an addition to our knowledge if he would do so either by an
ordiriary letter to a newspaper or by giving the communication in some
kind of cypher. In such a case if, before the intelligence of the death
can have arrived, a communication of this kind is published, either
.openly or in cypher, there will be' unimpeachable evidence of a
character to satisfy any candid inquirer, that something peculiar has
taken place. In science, as in law, the evidence ought always to be the
-very best that can be brought into co.rt.
We must bear in mind that coincidence will not certainly
'explain a thing of that kind. Suppose, for instance, that an appearance
presented itself to an individual at a distance, and that death happened
within ten minutes of this appearanoo. First of all, such an appearance
'is uncommon; then the probability of any person'dying in a particular
ten minutes is very small; and when the two things happen together you
"have to multiply the one probability by the other, and you will find
that the probability of the united event is something which is
inappreciably small, and consequently, if a thing of that kind happens,
it cannot be accounted for by any such hypothesis as coincidence.
The few experiments which I took part in performing were performed
:nt Buxton, at the house of a clergyman, who, I am glad to see, is present
with us to-day. We paid two visits to his house In the first
instance, the thought-reader was outside a door. The object or thing
thought of was written on paper and silently handed round to the
company in the room. The thought-reader was then called in, and in
'the course, perhaps, of a minute, the answer was given. Definitl'
Digitized by Google
38 Prof. Balfour Stewart. [July 17,.
objects in the room, for instance, were first thought of, .and generally the
answcr was right. Then cards were thought of, and in the
mAjority of co.ses the answer was correct. Then numbers weJ;'&
thought of, and the answers were genero.1ly right; but, of course, there
were some cases of error. Then names of towns were thought of, and a..
good many of these were right. Then fancy names were thought of.
When my colleague, Professor Hopkinson, had gone away, I was asked:
to think of certain fancy names, and mark them down and hand them
round to the company. I then thought of, and wrote on paper, "Blue-
Beard," "Tom Thumb," "Cinderella," and the answers were all correct.
I think it was the servant who answered" Cinderella." There was
some hesitation in getting her to pronounce the name, as she seemed to.
think she did not know it.
After the first visit, one of my colleagues at Owens College-
remarked that it would be more conclusive if the thought-reader, instead
of turning her face to the company, turned her face to the wall; and
that was accordingly done on the second occasion. The percentage of"
success was about as large as in the first instance. In one case, whilo-
the thought-reader 9'em.ained behind the door, a card was chosen. I
chose the "ace of hearts," and the paper on which it was written down
was handed round to the company. The thought-reader in a few
moments called out, "Ace of hearts ! "
These are all the experiments that I have to bring before you. While
they cannot stand upon the same footing as those of Professor Barrett
Bud his colleagues, they may be considered, I think, as corroborative of'
the experiments of these gentlemen. At any rate, if they are objected
to, it will be necessary for our opponents to extend somewhat the area.
of untrustworthiness. I have no doubt when this operation is done
~train and again the objectors will get tired of it, and the laugh will then.
be turned against themselves.
The following is the detailed report of the experiments I have-
alluded to :-
On Saturday, November 12th, 1881, Professor Alfred Hopkinson and'
I went to the house of the Rev. A. M. Creery, at Buxton. There were
present, besides Mr. Oreery, Miss Mary Oreery, also Alice, Emily, Maud.,
Kathleen, children; and the servant Jane.
.After a few preliminary trials, the following guesSes 'Yere made, the·
guesser going out of the room until some object was thought of by the-
company, when she came in and tried to guess what object was inthe-
thoughts of all. No questions were asked nor obser\'ations made·
by the company:-
Digitized by Google
1882.] 30
First.-DEFINITE OBJECTS THOUGUT OF.
1. Pipe.-Alice guessed plate, paper, then pipe.
2. Fork.-Maud guessed it at once.
3. Cup.-Emily guessed it at once.
4. Corkscrew.-Jane guessed it at once.
5. 1'ongs.-Miss Mary guessed fire-irons and then poker.
Second.-CARDS THOUGUT OF.
6. Three of clubs.-Jane guessed three of spades, then three of clubs.
7. Queen ofclubs.-Miss Mary,guessed three of diamonds.
8. Fmw ofclubs.-Maud guessed five of clubs, tllen four of clubs.
9. Ace of dial1umds.-Jane guessed ace of clubs, then ace of
diamonds.
10. King of spade8.-Jane guessed four of diamonds, then six of
diamonds.
11. King of lUla,us.-Maud guessed knave of hearts, then king of
hearts.
12. Ace ofs~68.-Maud guessed right at once.
13. King of diamonds.-Professor Stewart tried and guessed ten of
diamonds.
14. Three ofdiamonds.-Miss Mary guessed right at onco.
15. Ace ofltearts.-Alice guessed right at once.
16. ICing ofclubs.-Professor Hopkinson tried and guessed knave of
spades, then four of hearts.
17. Mr. Creery and Professor Balfour Stewart.tried, but could not guess.
fiird.-NuMBERS THOUGHT OF,
IS. Forty-eigltt tJwughe oJ-Jane guessed 34, 44, S4.
19. Sixty-seven thought oj-Miss Mary guessed 66, t4en 67.
20. Fifty-five thought oj-Maud guessed 54, 56, then 55.
21. Eigltty-one tltm'1lltt oj-Alice guessed 71, then S1.
22. Tl~irty-one tltm£gl~t oj-Emily did not guess it.
23. Eleven tltougMof.-Kathleen did not guess it.
Fourtl~.-OBJECTS THOUGHT OF.
Experiments 24, 25, 26, and 27, in which objects were thought
of, were inconclusive, as the names of the things chosen might possibly
have been surmised by the guesser.
igitized byGoogl
40 Prof. Balfour Stewa.rt. [July 17,
FijUl.-NAMES OF TOWNS THOUGHT OF.
28. Macclesjield.~ane did not guess rightly, then sat down, and shortly
afterwards guessed rightly.
29. York.-Maud guessed Ashford, then York.
30. Paris.-Miss Mary did not guess rightly.
31. Clte8ter.~ane guessed Manchester, then Chester.
(N.B.-During this series also Mr. Creery ·was out of the room.)
Sixtl/,.-FANCY NAMES.
32. Peter P.iper.-Alice guessed at once.
33. Bluebeard.~ane guessed at once.
34. Tom Thumb.--Jane guessed at once.
35. Citiderella.~ane guessed at once.
I ought to state that the object thought of W83 marked on paper by
one of the company, and handed round silently, 80 that all present
might be aware of it.
I ought also to mention that the thought-reader was aware of
the general character of the things thought of; for instance, that
it was definite objects in the first place; cards in the second, and
so on.
Professor Hopkinson agrees with the above memorandum, except
that after No. 29, Derby was put down as the name of a town, and
}Iaud guessed right the first time.
EXPERIMENTS AT BUXTON, FElmUARY 18TH, 1882.-Present: Mr.
Creery ~d his five daughters; servant Jane; also Professors
Hopkinson and Balfour Stewart.
CdD 8BLBCDD BY
GVBBBBB. BALI'OUB 8!'BW.lBT lbaUL'1'.
1. Jane ......... Six of hearts ............... Wrong.
2. Miss Alice ... Knave of clubs ............ JJ
3. Miss Maud... Seven of hearts ............ Right 1st time.
4. JJ Ten of spades............... " 1st time.
5. JJ King of diamonds......... " 2nd time.
6. Miss Maud... Ace of hearts ............... ·Wrong.
7. Miss Mary '" Six of spades ............... JJ
8. Jane ......... Ten of hearts............... Right 1st time.
9. JJ ......... Three of diamonds ...... Wrong.
10. JJ ...... '" Four of diamonds ......... "
11. " ......... Four of spades ............ "
Digitized by Google
1882.] Note on Tl,otlgM-Readjng.
GnsnB.
CARD SELECTED BY
BALI'OVB STBWART.
12. Miss Ma.ud... Five of clubs ............... Right 3rd time.
13. " Six of hearts...... .... ..... " 2nd time.
14. " Queen of hearts............ " 1st time.
15. Miss Alice "'. Two of diamonds ......... " 2nd time.
16. " Nine of diamonds ......... " 3rd time.
17. " Three of clubs ............ " 3rd time.
18. " Six of diamonds ......... " 3rd time.
19. " King of spades ............ " 2nd time.
20. " Queen of spades............ " 3rd time.
21. " Knave of diamonds ...... " 2nd time.
22. Miss Mary ... Eight of clubs ............ Wrong.
23. Jane ......... Five of diamonds ......... Right 1st time.
24. " ......... Four of spades ............ " 1st time.
(In tile three next experiments the gnesser remained ontside the ooor.)
25.
26. "
"
Ace of hearts............... Right 1st time.
Five of spades ...~..... { Wrong. Ace of
Spades guessed.
27.
"
Five of diamonds .....• { Wrong. Ace of
Diamonds guessed.
NUlIIBER SET,FoOTED BY
BALFOUR STlIWAkT.
28. Jane 22 ........................... Right 1st time.
29." 46 ........................... Wrong.
30." 10 ........................... Right 1st time.
:n." 12 ........................... Wrong.
32. Miss Maud... 44 ........................... Right 1st time.
33. " 37 •.......................... " 1st time.
34. " 81 Wrong.
35. Miss Alice... 33 Right 1st time.
36. " 27 " 2ndtime.
37. " 55 ·Wrong.
38. Miss Mary... 66
"
39. Jane 28
"
40." 43
"
41." 22
OBJECr SELECTED BY
BALFOUR STEWART.
42. Jane ......... A dish ............ ......... \Vrung.
43. Miss Maud... Cream jug.................. "
44. Miss Alice ... Scissors ..................... Right 1st tim&.
41
Digitized by Google
Prof. Balfour Stewart. [July 17.
GUlI8SU.
On.rJlCT 8J1LECTED BT
BALFOUB STEWAaT. ]l.uULT.
45. Miss Alice ... Prof. Hopkinson's hat •.. Right 3rd time. .
46. " Key ........................ Wrong.
47. Miss Maud... Clothes brush............... Right 1st time.
48. " Umbrella. .................. Wrong.
49. Jane ......... Candlestick .... ........... "
50." Teapot ... .................. "
51. Miss Alice ... Watch ............... ...... "
52. " Key... ......... ............ "
53. Miss Mary ... Knife ..................... Right 1st time.....
54. " Pencil...... .................. " 1st time.
55. " ... Toothpick .................. Doubtful.
56. " A sovereign ............... Right 2nd time.
57. Miss Maud... Purse ........................ Wrong.
In all the above cases, E'-xcept two or three, the gues!tflr's hack was
turned to the company. .
• The knife was also oorrectly described by the guesser. It had .not been out
of Professor Hopkinson's pocket until after Miss Mw:y had left the room.
1882·1 Note on TI,ougM.Readi'llg.
NOTE ON THOUGHT-READING.
By the Rev. A. M. CREERY, B.A.
[Read to the Society, July 17, 1882.]
In the month of October, 1880, my a~tion was called to the-
phenomena of the "willing game," but being unable to determine how
much of the results was due to simple willing, and how much to
- involuntary pushing, I resolved to thoroughly investigate the whole·
question of the action of mind on mind. For this purpose I employed.
four of my children between the ages of ten and sixteen, all being in
perfectly robust health, and a' maid-servant, about twenty years of age.
Each went out of the room in turn, while I and the others fixed on.
lOme object which the absent one was to name on returning to the
room. After a few trials the successes preponderated so much
over the failures that we were all convinced there was something-
very wonderful coming under our notice. Night after night,
for several months, we spent an hour or two each evening
in varying the conditions of the experiments, and choosing new
subjects for thought-transference. We began by selecting the simplest.
objects in the room; then chose names of towns, names of people, dates,
cards out of a pack, lines from different poems, &0., in fact any things or-
series of ideas that those present could keep steadily before their minds ;;
and whenthe children were in good humour, and excited bythe wonderful
nature of their successful guessing, they very seldom made a mistake. I
"ve seen seventeen cards, chosen by myself, named right in succession"
without any mistake. We soon found that a great deal depended on
the steadiness with which the ideas were kept before the minds of "the·
thinkers," and upon the energy with which they willed the ideas to
pass. Our worst experiments before strangers have invariably been.
when the company was dull and undemonstrative; and we are all con-
vinced that when mistakl,lS are made the fault rests, for the most part,
with the thinkers, rather than with the thought-readers.
I may 811.y that this faculty is not by any means confined to memoers.
of one family; it is much more general than we imagine. To verify
this conclusion I invited two of a neighbour'S children to join us in our·
eXperiments. On the first evening they were rather diffident, and did'
not succeed; on the second they improved, and on the third evening,
they Were still better. Circumstances prevented them being able to.
Digitized by Google
44 . ,Rev. A. M. Creery. [July 17,
continue their visits to us, but I saw enough to make me feel perfectly
sure that had they persevered they would have been quite equal to our
own circle in the faculty of" thought-reading.
Those who may be desirous of ascertaining the truth of the matter,
can do so in their own families; and since it in no way interferes with
the health of those engaged, it will be found a very interesting way of
passing an hour on a winter's evening.
The distance between the thinkers and the thought-reader is of
considerable consequence. As a rule the best results take pl8.(,'e when
this distance is not more than·a yard or two; but under very favourable
mental conditions we have often had four and five cards named right
in succession, while the thought-reader was placed in a room on the
:landing above that in which the thinkers were assembled.
On questioning the children as to the mode by which they form their -
.judgment of the ideas that come before their minds, I find them all
agreed in this: two or three ideas of objects of the class with which we
·are experimenting come before their minds, and after a few moments'
-reflection they select that which stands out with the greatest vividness.
At present we are not in a position to theorise very far on this subject,
'still we cannot help asking ourselves this question: How are the motions
of the brains of the thinkers communicated to the brain of the thought-
reader ~ Is there any such thing as direct action between mind and
mind 7 or are "brain-waves" set up in some intervening medium, either
'in the luminiferous ether, or in a nerve atmosphere developed at the
time in the cerebra of the thinkers, by which the corresponding idea is
called up in the mind of the thought-reader 1 These are questions
which, at present, we cannot definitely answer; but I am under tho
impression that the medium of communication is something more subtle
than the vehicle that conveys heat and light.
When we began to investigate these curious phenomena we had ne
idea that the result of our little amusement would ever come before the
public. But having been asked to deliver a lecture on some popular
subject before a small philosophical society in Derby, I volunteered to
..give an account of the experiments in "Thought-readin~" with which
! was then engaged. A short report, which appeared in the local
"papers, I forwarded to Professor Barrett, who I knew was interested in
such matters. He at once took it up, and paid us his first visit at
Easter, 1881, the results of which he afterwards published in Nature;
;and should conclusions of any psychological value be ever deduced
from the experiments that I commenced it will be mainly to him that
'Science will be indebted.
P.S.-The last evening Professor Stewart was with us I asked a
medical man in Buxton (Mr. Turner) to join us in our experim!3nts.
ProfeGsor Stewart was obliged to leave early, but Mr. Turner, in my
igitized byGoogl
1882.J Note on ,TllOu{JId~Re((dinfJ.
absence with Professor Stewart, continued the experiments, a record of
which he has sent me, and is here subjoined.
"With a friend who appends his signature to these notes, which are
copied from those taken on the moment, I visited the Rev. A. 1\1:. Creery ,
on February 18th, 1882, for the purpose of witnessing the power of
thought-reading possessed by his children. In the absence of Mr,
Creery, I made an attempt to test the children's power, and with the,
following results, roughly chronicled I know, and imperfect as a searching
test, but accurate as to the results obtained.
"MISS ALICE CREERY.-
Expt. I.-What do I hold ill my hand 1 Answer--Spectacles.,
(Describe them.) Eye-glasses.' (I had Mr. Onne's eye-
glasses concealed in my hand.)
Expt. 2.-What do I hold in my hand 1 Answer-Piece of paper. '
(N0.) A knife. (Describe it.) It is white. (Describe
further.) It has a toothpick and button-hook. (Correct ~
it hael other implements useful to a smoker.)
Expt. 3.-What do I hold in my hand 1 Answer-A ring. (DescrilJl'
it.) Has a buckle on it. (Correct.)
"MISS MAUD CREERY.-
Expt. l.-'\Vhat town have we thought oft Answer--Buxton.,
(Correct.)
Expt. 2.-What town have we thought oft Answer-Derby. (What
part did you first think of 1) Railway station. (So did I.
Next.) The market-place. (So did I.)
Expt. 3.-What town have we thought on Answer-Something com-
mencing with L. (Pause of a minute.) Lincoln. (Correct.).
Expt.4.-What town have we thought of t Answer-Stockport.
(Correct.)
Expt. 5.-What town have we thought oft Allswer-Fairfield. (What
part did you think of first 1) The road to it. (So did I.
What part next 1) The triangular green behind the Bull's,
Head Inn. (So did I.)
"J,lliE DEAN, the .3Iaid Servant.-
Expt. I.-What do I take hold of in my pocket 1 Answer-Spectacle-
case. (Does it contain anything 1) It's empty. (Correct.)
Expt.2.-What have I placed under the pian01 Answer-A key.
(What is it the key oft) A club. (One and a-half minute's
pause.) No. The key of the Asylum. (It was the key of'
the Asylum grounds. Noone knew that I had a private
key; I am not officially connected with the Asylulll.)
igitized byGoogl
Expt.
Rev. A. Y. Creery. [July 17s
3.-What have we agreed to think oft Amwer-A flower.
f (What is the name of the flower' Slight hesitation, then·
answered.) Lily of the valley. (No.) Immediately
pointed to some flowers in Mr. Orme's coat. Snowdrop.
(Correct.)
Expt. 4.-What have I in my hand 1 Amwer-A pin. (Whatcolourf)
Black. (What shape 1) Bending her index finger and
thumb into the shape of the letter C, she said, "That shape."
(Unknown to anyone I had bent it to that shape.)
Expt. 5.-What card have I selected 1 AnsWer-Seven of hearts.
(No.) Eight of hearts. (Correct. Which way is the
point of the heart directed 1) Upwards. (Correct.) .
EX1Jt. 6.-What card have I selected 1 Answer-Nine of spades. - .
(Correct. Which way is the point of the spade directed 'I)
Downwards. (Correct.) .
" No-one knew of the previous card excep1; Mr. Orme. No-one knew
'Of the second card except myself.
"FREDK. TURNER, l\f.R.C.S., Grafton House, Buxton.
" JOlIN H. ORlIE, Solicitor, Buxton.
"July 14th, 1882."
• Digitized by Google
•
1882.~ .A.ppendw to Report on Tllougkt-Reading. 47
APPENDIX
'.rO THE REPORT ON THOUGHT-READING.
13y W. F. BARRETT F.R.S.E., KR.LA., &c., Professor of Physics in
tJIe Boya1 College of.Science for Ireland.
It has been urged by those whose opinion is entitled to the highest
-respect, that this inquiry, ifundertaken at all, shouldhave beenleft in the
hands of physiologists, or physicians, who, having a wider knowledge of
.the numerous forms which hysteria assumes, would be more keenly alive
to certain sources of error, such as deceit, which might escape an ordinary
observer. This is quite possible; though I venture to think that the
experience gained by several years' persistent, though unpublislled
iuvestigation of obscure mental phenomena occurring in all sorts and,
-conditions of people, is not without its value. Only by wide and
searching inquiry of this kind can any conception be formed of the
pitfalls which beset the inquirer, arising mainly either from unconscious,
involuIitary actions, or from the extraordinary capacity there is in
human nature for deception; often seemingly innocent, at other times
resorted to for the sake of gaining notoriety. I confess I do not know
ho,v our vigilance would be increased, or our results become
.more trustworthy, by ability to diagnose any particular case, when
~xperience has taught us to exercise habitual caution in all cases. The
inquiry must ultimately resolve itself into a. question of evidence,
and demands the exercise of the faculty of careful observation, which' a
physicist is as likely to possess as a physiologist.
M:y own connection with the subject arose in this way. Some
. fifteen years ago, whilst staying with a friend in the country, I saw
eertain mesmeric experiments ma"e on the children of one of my
friend's tenants, which interested me grpatly, ill spite of my strong
scepticism. Among other things, I noticed what appeared to be a
transmission of impressions from the mind of the mesmeriser to that of
the subject, without, so far as I could detect, allY intervening sense of
perception. For example, the mesmerised subject being in 011e room
and my friend in an adjoining one, and completely out of sight of the
aubject(even supposingthe sleep were feigned), I-placingmyself between
the two rooms-noticed that, every time a substance was silently tasted
by my friend, a corresponding motion of tIle lips, expressive of enjoy-
ment or distaste, occurred in the mesmerised subject. In repeating these
and other experiments on the same subject, I obtained what appeared
Digitized by Google
48 Prof. W. F. Barrett. [July 17,.
to me indubitable evidence of a r~production in the subject's mind of
any vivid sensation or idea that occurred in my own mind. I WQ.<;
80 much impressed with these experiments, and others made at my
own house subsequently, that I ventured. to bring the ;natter before
the British Association, at the meeting in Glasgow in 1876, in the
hope that a committee of inquiry would be appointed. The
discussion on this paper drifted, however, into other. cha.nnels~
and in a letter published in the Times in September, 1876, I
wrote as follows:- •
"I am inclined to believe that other mental .phenome~su~,_ for
example, as the influence of one mind upon another 8.<.TOBB space, without
the intervention of the senses-demand a prior investigation. That
cases of such mental action at a distance do really exist I, in common
with others, have some reason to believe : bdt before they can be generally -
accepted, the evidence must accumulate and be thoroughly sifted. I hope
that some one more competent, and having more leisure than myself, will
ultimately take up this question; meanwhile, I shall be glad to receive
communications from anyol1e who can furnish me with trustworthy evidence
on two points-of cases of the direct action of one mind upon another giving
rise to an apparent transfusion of thought or feeling, occurring either in
abnormal conditions produced by illneBS or 'mesmeric trance' ; 'or of cases
where, under normal conditions, perception may seem to occur independent
of the ordinary channels of sensation. I must beg those who kindly send
me such cases to take great care lest sources of error be produced from
unconscious muscular signs on the part of the observer, or from the keen
• muscular sense' and the general exaltation of the other senses, which, in
any morbid. condition,. are likely to exist on the part of the subject.
Whether careful inquiry will prove that every case can be referred to already
known physiological laws or not, remains to be seen ; but many friends, to
whose opinion I attach much weight, agree with me in thinking that such an
inquiry should be made."
As this letter was copied into other journals, and was followed by a.
similar request made by me in the columns of the Atll£nteU11l and else-
where, I received a very large number of replies. The examination,.
sifting, and personal investigation of the best cases, has been a work of'
considerable labour, and has occupied a good deal of my time for the.
last five years. .
Many of the cases were readily explicable on the theory of muscle-
reading, others were of more interest and led to correspondence and
personal interviews, in which I was joine d by Mr. F. W. H. Myers and
afterwards by Mr. Edmund Gurney, both of whom had been pursuing.
in connection with our President, kindred inquiries for some time
past. The later results of our investigation are contained in the
foregoing report, but it may be useful to put on record some of our
earlier experiences as affording typical illustrations of the debo.tcaLIc.
Digitized by GobgIe
1882.] ~ppendw to Report on Tltotigkt-ReadiIlU.
border land between the discernment of muscular impressions and
the supersensuous perception of an unexpressed wish.
The first case is a sample of the ordinary willing game that came
under my notice in Easter, 1877.
E:cpe. I.-The subject in this case was a young medical man, and the
friends present were mostly medical men, sceptical of the
operation of any agency beyond involuntary muscular
action. The experiments were made in the house of a'
distinguished surgeon, Mr. Lawson Tait. A paperknife was
placed by myself on the top of a folding screenduring the
subject's absence from the room; on recallinghim two friends
clasped hands round the subject's waist; he then closed his
eyes, walked irresolutely to the spot, and took off the paper~
knife, placing it on the table. Here involuntary guidance
to the spot may be assumed, but it is difficult to understand
what should have made him lift up his hands suddenly and
feel for an object out of sight. No indication of what was
to be founl1 was given beforehand. '
Expe. 2.-The same subject again left the room, one of the number
ascertaining that he was quite beyond eye or ear shot. This
time we willed that he should move the fire-screen and
double it back. On re-entering, my host, the surgeon.
clasped him as before, and aftera few moments of indecision,
he went towards the spot and did as we had wished.
Expe. ~.-This time we fixed that the subject should turn out' the gas.
of & particular bracket, one of several round the room.,
Loosely held round the waist, the subject in a few minutes
went to the spot, lifted up his hands and turned off the
gas.
These three experiments are of interest, inasmuch as in each one the
hands had to be lifted up, muscles being used distant from the part in
contact with the willers. Similar results were obtained in July, 1877,
with Miss R. as the subject; one example will suffice.
ErqJt. 4.-During the absence of the subject, it was agreed that a mark
should be made with & pencil round a sixpence, which
happened to be lying near a sheet of paper on the table
before the subject left the room. In this case the hands of
the willers were placed round Miss R.'s neck, and the action
fixed upon silently willed. In a few moments Miss R.
walked to the table, took up a pencU, and deliberately'
made a mark rouM the sixpenoe.
B
Digitized by Google
Prof. W. F. Dnrrett. July 17;
A long series of experiments extending over several days in May,
1879, were made by me with another subject. In this case, the sister
of the lady seemed to have the most power over her. Among
numerous trials that were made, the following may be quoted.
E(·pt. 5.-In her absence, the subject was willed to take up a little
agate jewel box, standing with some twenty other small
objects on a shelf, put it inside a certain covered jar in
another part of th.e room, reopen the jar, remove the
ornament and hand it to one.of the friends present. This
was done swiftly and correctly to the smallest detail
it.cpt. 6.-Selected notes on the piano were four times in succession
correctly struck. Here, and in Expt. 5, the hands gently
touched the head. In some of the next experiments the
hands did not o.ctually tonch.
Expt. 7.-r:.jrtain books in a book-case (containing some 100 volumes)
were chosen by me iD. the absence of the subject. In six
consecutive trials the right book was taken down.
Out of a toto.l of 130 trials with this subject, of which the foregoing
are fair samples, about 100 were correctly performed. Instead of giving
ihe details ofall these experiments I ma.y be permitted to summarise
them by saying that while . ~ nftfJf the muscular sense might
have been a sufficient e n\. on, there ~~fiJ y others very carefully
tested, which could no Qsily beso"'eX}llainett' d which pointed in
the direction ofsome n~NI&J.fJ.8ilampl as mind-roading, as
their only satisfo.ctol ex lana.1J.2I\, _....In ~t, e intervent.ion of II.
8econ~ person, who 1 ~~IY' ~ ;b what hu.d to be done,
between the willer and til i6~ Ythk- s of each resting on the
shoulders of the one in front, eli no serionsly interfere with the results
obtained. Under such conditions difficult things were correctly done,
involving complicated muscular o.ctions, whilst we failed to do similar,
and even much simpler, things under the influence of delibernte
conscious guidance.
Besides these cases we have received evidence of similar performances
in private fa.milies in different parts of England-a.t fsontho.mpton,
Southport, Cirencester, Yarmouth, Cork, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Norwich,
&c.; in all these cases we are greatly indebted to our informants, to
whom we have given considerable trouble in correspondence; but none
of these cases were of such a nature as to justify a personal visit, amI
mQl'eovpr the hypothesis of muscle-reading might, primaJack, be taken
to account for many t'f them. Two cases, however, one in London and
Digitized by Google
1882.] . Appendix to Repol-t on Thought-Reading. 51
one on .the south coast, seemed deserving of more careful inquiry. In
these, as in aJl the other cases recorded, the subjects freely placed
themselves in our hands, a kindness we desire gratefully to acknowledge,
regretting the unrequited trouble we have given them.
The case in LOndon, that of Miss C., has been investigated by
each of the members of the Committee on Thought-reading. Here is the
record of four typical experiments made by Mr. Myers, on November
·3Oth and December· 7th, 1877.
"The mother of the young lady placed three of her fingers, not
including the thumb, on the back of Miss C.'s head, the fuigers
t'esting apparently quite lightly.
Zxpt. 1.-1 drew on a piece of paper a rough sketch of a house and
shewed the sketch to Mrs. C. Miss C.'s head was averted
the whole time; no look was interchanged between her and
Mrs. C., no other part of their persons was in contact. No
one but Mrs. C. saw the drawing. I watched Mrs. C.'s
fingers closely in full gaslight; they seemed to rest lightly
on Miss C.'s head; no signals perceptible. The drawing
was rudely reproduced, as though by a person drawing in
the' dark; one of the windows being drawn outside. the
outline of the house.
Z:ept. 2.-1 wrote a sentence and shewed it to Mrs. 0., taking care that
Miss C. should not see it. Miss C. then wrote it under the
same conditions as above. I chose sentences in foreign
langu8.c<teB, that guidance might be less easy.
T';;' regere' imperio.
86 deja pender•.
These were correctly written. .
E:x;pt. S.-Miss C. then pushed up her sleeve. Mrs. O. placed three
fingers on Miss O.'s arm above the elbow, and in like
manner Miss O. wrote (without having previously seen the
words) :-
Palma.
'l.'hi8 man.
E:x;pt. 4:.-The Greek words p.~1Jv and Gl'GE were then written under the
same conditions. They were very rudely written, but each
letter was distinguishable."
NotwithBtanding these surprising results, we were convinced that,
granting the hypothesis of involuntary muscular action, and of
Ii: 2
Digitized by Google
Prof. W. F. Barrett. [July 11.
extreme 'sensibility on the part of the subject, the probably unconsciou .
and certainly undiscemible movements of the touching fingers might
Possibly serve to cOnvey a sufficient guidance to the girl's delicate skin
and responsive organisation, even though she might be unaware of her
own response.
The other somewhat similar case that reached me was on the south
coast, and here also Mr. Myers visited the family and reported as.
follows :-
"NOTES OF EXPERIMENTS WITH THE MISSB8 it, OCTOBER 31ST, 1877.
Miss M. R, henceforward called M.
Miss R. R, I' " ' R.
1 put my hand on 1\1.'s shoulders. 1 thought of what I wished her
to do, and told nobody except in Expts. 5, 6, 15, and 16.
Expt. 1.-1 wished her to take a very small ornamentfrom the chimney-
piece-a little china cat an inch high. As soon as my hands
were on her shoulders she rushed to the chimney-piece, so
quickly that 1 had difficulty in keeping my hands on her,
and instantly picked up the cat, which was inconspicuously
placed among many ornaments.
Expt. 2 &; 3.~Two failures followed; she said she felt strong but.
confused influence.
Expt. 4.-1 wished her to go to a book of photogrsphs-one of several
in the room-open it, and pause at a. certain photograph. She
rushed quickly to the book and opened it, But became
confused. .
Expt. ~.-Mr. R took one end of a stick and M. the other. M. took a
strap from a table and gave it to a lady at some distance ;
the test agreed on while M. was out of the room.
Expt. 6.-A thread was substituted for the stick. M. moved an object
previously agreed on-an umbrella in comer of room; but
this time after a good deal of hesitation and fumbling.
Expt. 7.-1 put my hands on R.'s shoulders and willed her to piek up
and eat a biscuit from a plate in comer of room. She a.t
once picked up a biscuit but did not eat it.
8xpt. 8.-1 willed her to shake hands with her mother. She rushed to
her mother and stroked her hands.
Digitized by Google
'1882.) .A.ppfndia:'to Report on Thought-Reading:
Expt. 9.-I willed her to pick up grape from bunch.' Sh~ rushed 'to
grapes and picked a few up.
..Expt 10.-1 willed her to pick up a hat in distant part of room. The
instant my hands touched her she turned sharply round,
rushed to the hat, and picked it up.
Expt, 11.-A similar wish failed.
Expt. 12.-1 willed her to nod. She stood still and bent her head.
.8xpt. 13.-1 willed her to clap her hands. ,She did nothing.
Expt. 14.-1 willed her to strike on the piano tenth note from right
hand end. She did so after a few seconds' fumbling. As
I had opened the piano she might guess I wished her to go
to the piano, but she could not surmise the right note
to strike.
..Expt. 15.-Eight persons present contributed trifli~g articles-a half-
crown, two pencil-cases, small knife, key, handkerchief, two
small purses. These were put in the pocket of a lady
present, while R. was out of room. R. re-entered room; 1\1.
touched her shoulders. R. rushed to the lady who had the
objects, pulled them out one by one and with shut eyes
gave each to its owner-M. withdrawing her hands during
part of the process, which was extremely rapid. R. said
she did not know' to whom she was giving the things;
had no sense of connection between the things and the
peopl&-mere1y an impulse to move first one way and
then another.
.Eltlpt. 16.-I wrote the letters of the alphabet on scraps of paper. I then
thought of the word CLARA and shewed it to M. behind
R.'s back, R. sitting at the table. M. put her hands on R.'s
shoulders, and R. with shut eyes picked out the letters
C L A R V-taking the V apparently for a second A,
which was not in the pack-and laid them in a heap. She
did not know, she said,' what letters she had seleqted. No
impUlse had consciously passed through her mind, only
she had felt her hands impelled to pick up certain bits
of paper.
" This was a good case as apparently excludingpushing. The scraps
"were in a confused heap in front of R; who kept still further confusing
Prof. W. F. Barrett. [J~y 17,.
them, picking them up and letting them drop with great rapidity, M.'s.
bands remained apparently motionless on R's shoulden, and one can
hardly conceive that indications could be given by pt'e8BWre, from the
\ rapid and snatching manner in which R collected the right letters,
touching severallettel'$in the course of a second. M., however, told
me that it was always necessary that she, M., should '66 the letters.
which R. was to pick up.
"Mr. R said that M. used at one time to write automatically
the thoughts of persons sitting near her-though quite unconscious of
what those thoughts were-the hand being moved without any'
perceptible in1iuence on the brain.
"NOVEMBER 1ST, 1877.-On a second visit similar phenomena..
occurred, with one new and instructive experiment, viz.,
Ezpt. 17.-M. held one end of a stick and R. the other. I shewed M.
certain words which I thought of, behind R.'s back; R. then
picked out letters, with the hand which was not holding the-
stick, from a confused pile. She made the words correctly.
Wl~ a UlII'eatl was subseituted 10'1' tll.8 ,tick "l.8lailed t()
do ,D."
Other experiments were subsequently made with this family by tWII)-
membel'$ of our Committee. But, marvellous as were some of the
things done, nevertheless had we no other case than this to rely upon, I
do not think we should be justified in calling in the aid of any new
hypothesis to explain the phenomena: in fact, the last experiment
shews that in some cases true thought-reading certainly was not the
cause of the success attained. I Inay here observe that our President
and Mrs. Sidgwick, who made somewhat similar experiments with two·
other ladies, arrived at the conclusion that all the results witnessed by
them personally were capable of explanation by the hypothesis of'
unconscious perception of unconscious muscular indications. Mrs.
Sidgwick writes: "They certaiDly did very wonderful things, but they'
did not succeed in any, even very simple, experiments which appeared'
completely to exclude the muscular hypothesis, except after several
attempts. My brother and I both found that with the hands of'
one of the sisters on our shoulders, we could sUC\leed in doing things
fairly well, though slowly; not, however, by feeling any impulse to do
anything, but by concentrating our minds on the hands, and trying to
make out from ,them whether their owner was satisfied or dissatisfied.
In this way he succeeded, e.g., in selecting the desired card from a..
number on a table. We found that the close attention necessary for
success was assisted by closing the eyes. I should add that I discussed
the theory of unconscious muscular IWtion with the Misses X. but.
Digitized by Google
1882.] Appendix 10 &port on Tllouglit-Rcading. 55
they did not think it would account'for either their own sensations
or some experiments they had succeeded with in their own "family
circle/'
On the other hand it must be adniitted that some of the results
obtained by Mr. Myers would be'far more easily explained by thought-
reading, if that were once recognised as a 'Vertz Ctz'U8(J, and the following
prior experiments With the same ladies, sent to me by an eye-witness
-whose integrity I have no reason to doubt-seem quite beyond any
power of muscle-reading.
"SEPTEMBER, 1876.
Expt. I.-Miss B. seated at the table, with her eyes bandaged, and a
pencil in her hand. I stood beMlIld her; no word was
sPoken. .I took my spectacl~ and held them in my baud;
she .wrOte 'Spectacles'; then my dog-whistle; after this
a key; then a pencil; all these she wrote doWn correctly
,
Expt. 2.-The same young lady, M. R, seated at the table With her
eyes bandaged, pencil in hand. Her uncle, standing about
twelve feet dis~ce, asked, 'What word am I thinking
of l' . M.R wrote 'Homo.' This was right.
Expt. 3.-:My daughter, who bad recently returned from a visit to her
brother at his vicarage, asked M. R (who was again seated
with eyes bandaged and pencil in hand), 'Who preached
at mybrother's church last Sunday evening" the answer
to the question being known to my daughter only. M. B.
wrote the first six letters of the name, viz., "Westmo--"
and then said, 'I feel no more in1luence.' My daughter
said, 'Lean your head against me.' M. R did so, and
then wrote the rest of the name, making it quite right-
'Westmore.'
~ ;
Expt. 4:.-My da.ughter then .asked he! .tbefOllowing questions: 'What
is the name of the hotel I was staying at in Paris last
month l' This was answered correctly. 'The name of
the opera. I heard t' Also auswered correctly. "
Since the publication of our article on Thought-reading in thll
Nineteenth Centu'MJ for June last, a friend has sent me the report of
some experiments tried in their own circle, both with and without
contact of any kind. Amongst the !aliter may be mentioned tho
following :-
Digitized by Google
56 Prof. W. F. Barrett. [Ju1117,
EJ:jit.-" Mrs. H. was the subject. We tried the names of four towns.
Edinbwrgh was the first. Mrs. H. guessed Edinburgh the
first trial DO'IJer was next fixed on. Mrs. H. said
. Plymouth first; and then Dover. Canterbury was next
chosen. Mrs H. said Ohester, Lancaster, Manchester.
Brighton was then fixed upon. Mrs. H. said Birmingham.
In these two failures it will be noticed there is a slight
resemblance in the words wrongly named."
Experiments of this kind, however, even if not merely fortuitous in
their results, have little scientific value unless one knows all the con-
ditions under which they are performed; their intprest consists in the
indication they afford of a widening of the area of experiment, which
is an important step.
It was after seeing the cc willing game j, in a friend's house
that the Rev. A. M. Creery, of Buxton, was led to try his own
children for an evening's amusement. At first entirely sceptical of
obtaining any results without contact, he was astonished at the success
he soon obtained under these conditions, whereupon, in January,
1881, he wrote to me, having read in the papers my letter requesting
information on this subject. It will be needless, in view of our own
observations, to· detail all the early experiments Mr. Creery tried at
my request. One or two experiments, however, are of interest, as they
are of a somewhat different nature.
MARCH 21ST, 1881.-Present: Mr. and Mrs. Creery and family, and
two friends, Mr. and Mrs. F.; who add their testimony to the accuracy
of the report.
Fifteen experiments were made in the naming of objects or of
English towns selected in the child's absence; there were only three
complete failures. Short sentences were now fixed upon, namely:
"What time is it1" "Will you have some supper'" "Will you go to
bed 1" "Were you at the sale to-day1" In each case the sentence was
correctly named by tl:J.e subject on her return to the room; every care
being taken that no information could be derived through the ordinary
channels of sensation. In these experiments the time that elapsed
from the moment the subject entered the room to the utterance of the
word selected, was found to vary from a few seconds to two minutes; in
one case four mirlutes elapsed. In another series of experiments
Mr. Creery tried placing the subject at various distances from the
" willers," and obtained successful results in the naming of cards even
when the subject was placed in a bedroom upstairs whilst the willers
remained in a room downstairs which was not under the bedroom.
So far as the children's testimony, and our own and ·their parent!>'
igitized byGoogl
1882.] .A.ppendia:.10 Report on Thought-Beadino.
observation went,no injurious effect to the health has aceompan~ed these
ilxperiments; the children immediately afterwards engage in play with
the same zest as if they had not been interruP1ied by our trials. But it i~
right to state that several correspondents have mentioned that trials
with the willing game produce dizziness and sometimes hysteria and'
incipient trance in the subject of experiment.* .This is confirmed
by a letter from the Rev. G. Henslow. published in Nature for June 23rd,
1881; and by a recent letter in Knowledge, the editor of which has
devoted several articles to the exposition of our experiments on
thought-reading, and has stated his own belief in the direct action
of mind upon mind.
Interesting and able articles on thought-reading have also. recently
appeared in the Spectator, together with several letters on the subject.
• The following letter from a correspondent, whose Dame and address I am
not at liberty to pubUsh, bears upon this point :_u Theone to be' willed' would
go to the other end of the house, if desired, whilst we agreed upon the thing to
be done, and before re-entering the room, the child was always effectually blind·
foldecL Then amidst total silence two of us would place our fingers lightly on
the child's waist, when after a moment's pausl!, he or she would suddenly dart off
towards the abject of the 'willin~,' paBBing roUDd the 'Various articles of furniture,
as ifseeing them, without ever disturbing them, and often so rapidly that we oould
not keep up with him, and therefore detaching himself from our touch, We
used to will the children to do the most unlikely things, such as to take a shoe off
one person's foot, and put it on another's head; or to find sometbing hidden up,
and then present it on their knees to one of the company, &:0., &:c. In fact they
were such adepts at 'the game,' that the more outlandish the 'willing' was,
the more they liked it, and they were rarely, if ever, unsuccessful; the feat;.
was usually performetl very quickly, and when unbandaJred they were amazed at.
what they had done and would langh heartily over it. The children stated that
they had no idea. of what they were doing, butfelt, as it were, a blind force com·
pelling them to certain aimless actions. Now I come b what seems to me a
most important feature in 'the game,' and which is the true cause of my
troubling you with this letu.r, viz., that it always ti1'etl the children very much,
even to making the girls sometimes hysterical. Indeed we found it so exhaUst-
ing to them (sometimes also giving them. a queer and ~ga1'& look afterwards), that
we at last forbade it altogether, except on very rare occasions, to shew the
curious phenomena. to some special friends. I think, therefore, the fact of this
exhaustion in strong, healthy children, from about twelve to sixteenyears of age,
aftera performance that never lasted more than two or threeminutes o.tm08t, and
wasnever alJowed to be attempted by the same ohild more than twioe in the same
evening, goes far toprovethatthe abnormal powers displayed bythem werenot the
effectof mere mnscular action, either voluntary or involuntary, upon the children,
andalsothat those abnormalpowerswere genuine. I shouldadd that the mostrigid
silence was enjoined by the children, and adhered to, and that they were alwaya
partioula.r to be tlw1'tmghly blindfolded-as tbe exercise in any degree of their
normal senses of ,hearing and sight, seemed to interfere with the abnormal
senses induoed by being •willed.''' Another correspondent writes :-" The
doctor has forbidden my daughter trying these experiments again. The last time
"heattempted them she went off into violent hysterios, ending with a deadfaint."·
These pathological faots de8erve careful inquiry.
Digitized by Google
, ,
Prof. W. F. Barrett. [July 11~
The tei-m tDilHmpr6llBitm., rather than thought-reading, is proposed by
one correspondent in the Spectator, and with much justice; the com-
mittee have accepted the ordinary phraseology simply because it· bas
come into general use. Among the letters in theSpectatorthe following
may be cited :-
"I had one day been spending the morning in shopping, and re-
turned by train just in time to sit down with my children ~ our early
family dinner. My youngest. child-a sensitive, quick-witted, little
maiden of two years and six weeks old-was one of the circle. Dinner
had just commenced, when I suddenly recollected an incident in. my
morning's experience which I had intended to tell her, and I looked at
the child with the full intention of saying, 'Mother saw lVbig, black
dog in a shop, with curly hair,' catching her eyes iIi'mine, as I pa~
,an instant before ~iDg. Just then something called ofi'mtatten-
tion, and the Bentente tDa8 not 'Uttered. What was my amazemen~
abollt two minutes afterwards, to hear my little lady ~nounce, 'Mother
saw a big dog in a shop.' I gasped. ,Yes,' I did!' I answered; 'but
how did you know" , With funny hair l' she added, quite calmly, and
ignoring my question. 'What colour was it, Evelyn" said one of her
elder brothers; 'was it black l' She said, ,Yes.'
"Now, it was simply impossible that she could have received any
hint of the incident verbally. I had had no friend with me when I had
seen the dog. All the children had been at home, in our house in the
country, four miles from the town; I had returned, as I said, just in
time for the children's dinner, and I had not even remembered..thp. cir~
cumstance until the moment when I fixed my eyes upon my little
daughter's. We have had in our family circle numerous examples of
spiritual or mental insight or foresight; but this, I think, is decidedly
the most remarkable that has ever come under my notice.-I am, Sir.
&c.
"CAROLINE BARBER.
"Ferndene, Abbeydale, near Sheffield, June 22nd."
To the same journal the Suffragan Bishop of Bedford, Dr. Walsham
How, contributes a remarkable case of perception at a distance, which
came under the observa.tion of his father. In this case the whole
details of a distant Beene were perceived in a dream and with a minute..
nek that seemed to exclude any mere freak of the imagination on the
part of the seer. Cases of this kind, and of "presence at a distance,"
such as the curious incident related by Dr. J. H. Gilbert, F.R.S.,- may
be said to adjoin the scope of the present inquiry and they deServe
and will receive separate investigation.
• See Spectator for September ~nd and 23rd, 1882.
Digitized by Google
..
1882.] Appendi3:, to Report 011 TllO!egkt-Reading.
Several eases have come under my notice lately, of an accident 0r-
a wound in battle (e.g., one in the Zulu war, and one in the present
campaign in Egypt), occurring to some individual, and at the same-
instant a dif)tant friend has received an intimation of the occurrence,
very much as if a nervous thrill had passed through the intervening'"
space, awakening a response in a sympathetic mind. These cases fall
under tae fourth group of phenomena mentioned in this report, and'
two typical illustrations are given on pages 30 and 31. I am.
indebted to Mrs. G. Bidder for the followmg additional evidence under- '
this head :-" A conneetion of mine was staying with, a friend whose-
husband was engaged in making a line of railway in Spain. My friend
was roused one night by her hostess, who was in a terrible fright, and said
she was certain her husband was killed in a railway accident. She had
been wakened with a start, and then had either seen the occurrence or-
been told in some way, but how, she could not remember. My friend
reminded her that the railway he was en~aed on did not open till the
next day, so that the accident was: unlikely. It turned out, however,.
that her husband had been doubtful of the safety of one part of the-
line, and had insisted on running an engine over it in the night.
to try it for the next day's opening, and he had been killed."
In the nlemoir of the 'late Bishop Wilberforce, a similar tra.ns-
mission of an impression is recorded in the following words:-
"The Bishop was in his .library at Cuddesdon, with three or four-
of his clergy writing with him at the same table. The Bishop.
suddenly raised his hand to his head, and exelaimed: 'I om certain
that sOmething has happened to one of my SODS.' It afterwards.
tranSpired that just at that time his eldest son, who was at sea, had had
his foot badly crushed by an accident on board his ship." The Bishop.
himselfrecords this circumstance in a letter written atthe time, and dated
March 4th, 1847. "It is curious," the Bishop writes, "that at the·
time of his accident, I was so possessed with the depressing conscious-
ness of some evil having befallen my son Herbert, that at last on the
third day after, the 13th, I wrote down that I was quite unable to,
shake off the impression that something had happened to him, and
noted this down for remembrance."
Dr. Wilton, of Sutton, Surrey, is my authority for the following;
cJ.Se :-
"A patient of niine, Mr. J. T--, a solicitor, about sixty yeam
of age, lived a short distance out of London, with his family, consisting
of a wife and step-daughter, Miss W--. One December he was..
asked to go to Edinburgh, to arbitrate in some matter of business.
Accordingly he left London, expecting to be away nearly 0. week.
"In the early morning of the third day after his departure, Mrs..
T-- awoke, and was surprised to find her husband, as she thought,.
Digitized by Google
Prof. W. F.' Barrett. [July 17.
standing by her bedside. She exclaimed, 'How did you got in withouf>
my hearing you , Wait while I light the candle.' She struck a match,
,and was very astonished at not seeing her husband in the room. While
:she was thinking over this singularly vivid delusion, her step-daughter,
who occupied an adjoining room, knocked .t the door, and on being
:admitted, said, 'Oh! mother, I have had a. horrible dream about father,
'8.Ild cannot sleep; I am afraid something has happened to him., In
the morning they both told their stories to their maid, and subsequently
'to a gentleman who called while they were at breakfast. In the courae
'of the forenoon a telegram arrived from Mr. T--, saying there had
been an accident to the train in which he had been a passenger, that he
'Was not hUrt, and would be home in the course of the day.
, " It appears that he had arranged his business much quicker than he
had expected, and was able to leave Edinburgh by the night train; a.
collision took place a few mUes from London, owing to a thick fog, and
about the time when the two ladies were disturbed by their dreams.
There W8.$ no doubt whatever of the truth of this strange coincidence,
the ladies having told their dreams long before the arrival of the
telegram. I attended the family many years, and although Mr. T--
did not appear to have sustained injury at the time, he nevel' recovered
from the nervous shock. "
The Spectator publishes the following:-
" My eldest brother went to New Zealand. One morning my sister
Emily came down to breakfast, looking very white and queer, and
directly she entered the room, said,-' Ben has met with an aecident.'
Disregarding our incredulous amusement, she declared she had seen him
'With his arm bandaged up, lying in a room where there were other
beds. We were longer than usual in hearing from my brother; he
explained the delay, saying his arm had been broken, and that he had
been for some time in the hospital. Comparing dates, we found he ,was
mjured the day my sister had her vision.-I am, Sir,
"ANTHONY AsHLEY."
"3, Buxton Villas, Stratford, August 7th."
Other cases are doubtless known to many who read this, for a
multitude of similar stories are in existence. Hitherto, as these facts
arose, the general explanation has been coincidence. It has been said,
"How many thousands of accidents occur, and no knowledge of them
'has been conveyed to others, except through the ordinary means; but
when, by a fortuitous circumstance or a natural foreboding, some friend
f!IDcies an accident has occurred, and it turns out more or less 8.$
im&e..med, then such coincidences are talked about as if they were
representative, or indiC!lotive of a law, whereas they are really nothing
more than chance shots." This would be a legitimate argument if the
Digitized by Google
1882.] '.Appmdi.7: to Report'on Tltollght-Read';J1g. 61
cases were excessively rare, and so far as our knowledge ot the facts,
extends at present, we are not in a position to do more than assert that-,
enough well-authenticated cases are on record to render explanation by
coincidence difficult to entertain with any degree of confidence. When to
thisis addedthe facts detailed in our report-fromwhichI venture tothink
the only fair conclusion is that some mode of supersensuous perception
not improbably exists-then it seems to me unphilosophical to reject, as
unworthy of serious examination, all stories such as those just narrated.
On the other hand-reiterating what has been emphatically stated
already-wide generalisations are altogether premature. Our object
here, as elsewhere, is simply to collect, collate, and weigh the facts.
using, if need be, as a working hypothesis, the conclusions drawn from
our Buxton experiments.
Nor must we forget that other workers have been in this or an
adjoining field. A list of well-known names might easily be compiled
who have testified from critical observation that during the mesmeric
sleep the mind of the mesmeriser can influence that of the subject,
independently of the ordinary chaunels of sensation.
The late Dr. Bush, a distinguished scholar, and Professor in the
University of New York, writes :-" I know that the conceptions
of my own mind have been reproduced in another mind without
any outward signs, and I know that I have not been deceived
as to the facts averred."
Dr. Mayo, F.R.S., who was Professor of Physiology and Anatomy in
King's College, London, and the author of an important treatise on
"The Nervous System and its Frmctions," gives similar testimony. In
counection with this subject, he remarks :-" A number. of incidents
are frequently turning up, for the most part on trivial occasions, which
we put aside for fear of being thought superstitious, because as yet
a natural solution is not at hand for them. Sympathy in general, the
spread of panic fears, the simultaneous occurrence of the same thoughts
to two persons, the intuitive knowledge of mankind possessed by some.
the magnetic fascination of others, may eventually be found to have to
do with a special and unsuspected cause."
The principle underlying these occurrences Dr. Mayo believes to be
the same that is found in a more striking form in mesmeric phenomena.
Of the singular relationship that exists between the minds of the
mesmeriser and his subject, producing an apparent community of
thought and sensation, Dr. Mayo gives experimental evidence precisely
similar to what has come under my own observation, and in conclusion
he states :-" I hold that the mind of a living person in its mostnormal
state, is always, to a certain extent, acting exoneurally, or beyond the
limits of the bodily person." He remarks that :-"It will be said the'
cases, in which I suppose this power manifested. are of too trivial a.
igitized byGoogl
Prof. W. F. Barrett. [July 17.,.
nature to justify so novel a hypothesis. My answer is, the cases are
few and trivial only because the subject has not been attended to. For
how many centuries were the laws of electricity pre-indicated by the
'single fact that a piece of amber, when rubbed, would attract light
bodies. Again, the school of physiological materialists will; of course,
be opposed to it. They hold that the mind is but a function or product
-of the brain."*
As we have stated in the Report, wehavebeen anxious to accumulate
;and sift experimental evidence as to the facts before us, rather than to
'indulge in theories as to the cause of the phenomena. We may, how-
-ever, conceive of nervous energy acting by induction across space as
well as by conduction along the nerve fibres. In' fact, the numerous
-analogies between electricity and nervous stimuli would lead to some
such inference as the above. Or the brain might be regarded as the seat
-of radiant energy like a glowing or a sounding body. In this case, the
;reception of the energy would depend upon a possibility of synchronous
"vibration in the absorbing body; which, moreover, may be constituted
like a sensitive flame, in a state of unstable equilibrium, so that a.
-distant mental disturbance inight suddenly and profoundly agitate
,particular minds, whilst others might remain quiescent. _ Further, we
may conceive that, just as a vibrating tuning fork or string spends its
-energy most swiftly when it is exciting another similar fork or string
in unison with itself, so the activity of the brain may be more speedily
-exhausted by the presence of other brains capable of sympathetic
vibration with itself. -
But speculations such as these are merely of use in suggesting lines
'Of experiment. For my own part, I have little doubt that a wider and
more exact knowledge of psychological phenomena· will shew the
"insufficiency of any physical analogy or materialistic explanation, and
thus should tend to accelerate the passage of the existing wave of
materialism, the crestof which, there seems reason to believe, has already
.gone over us.
POSTSCRIPl'.
The following extract from a letter in the Sussex Daily News is of
Bome interest in connection with the mode of experiment pursued by
Mr. Bishop. The subject of Thought-reading having been discussed,
.. It was proposed that we should attempt the experiment. Accordingly
I was blindfolded and left the room. Whilst I was absent a reel of
black cotton was secreted in a flower-pot near the window. On pressing
the haud of the gentleman who had secreted it against my forehead, and
requesting him to think of the object he had hidden, I saw plainly with
my blindfolded eyes, as though in a dream, the figure of a reel of black
• "Truths oontained in Popular Superstitions," p. 68 et &eq.
Digitized by Google
1882.] AppendifD to Report on Tkought-Reading. 63
cotton floating before me. I then told him to think of where he had
hidden it, and I saw and led him to a bure8.u at. the opposite end of the
room to the window. This he said was wrong, but on inquiry I found
that he had originally intended to have placed it there, but had altered
his mind. We then tried the question of localising a pain. Being
blindfolded, and holding my friend's left hand against my forehead, I
told him to imagine a pain. Almost immediately I felt a peculiar,
indescribable sensation on the right side of my face, and told him that
he was thinking of II pain there. He was, in fact, imagining a violent
attack of neuralgia in the right upper jaw. Other experiments were
tried and have been tried since, some successful, some unsuccessful, but
I have seen quite enough to convince. me that there is truth in it. I
don't pretend to offer a reason, but I would say to those who disbelieve
it, 'Try for' .>urselves.' All do not possess the power. I was the only
one of a pa:_"y of six or seven who was thus affected, but, doubtless, there
are very many who could perform precisely the same experiments, and
by continued inquiry it may 1 )} that the mystery will be soIved.-I am
yours, &c., "HENRY EDKONDS, B.Se. (London)."
"Brighton School of f:eience and Art."
The following ext1'act from a letter published in Ligltt shews that a
Mr. Smith, of Brighton, has powers analogous to those claimed by Mr.
Bishop :-" The way Mr. Smith conducts his experiment is this: He
places himself en rapport with myself by taking my hands; and a strong
concentration of will and mental vision on my part has enabled him to
read my thoughts with an a.ceuracy that approaches the miraculous.
Not only can he, with slight hesitation, read numbers, words, and even
whole sentences which I alone have seen, but the sympathy between us
has been developed to such a degree that he rarely fails to experience tlle
taste of any liquid or solid I choose to imagine. He has named,
described, or discovered small articles he has never seen when they have
been concealed by me in the most unusual places, and on two occasions
he has successfully described portions of a scene which I either imagined
or actually saw.
"DOUGLAS BLACKDUn...
..., Editor of BI·iglttolll·an."
" 24, Duke-street, Brighton."
Mr. Bishop has laliely been good enough to give me an
opportunity of trying his powers. In the first instance, by means of a
confederate, he shewed the wonderful perfection to which he has
carried fictitious thought-reading, indicating objects, names, or figures by
means of a pre-arranged code. Thus his confederate, who was seated
back to us and blindfolded in another part of the room, told us-in
answer to a suceessio)) of seemingly casual questions on the part of
Digitized by Google
64 Prof. W. F.BBrrett. [July 17, 188Z.
Mr. Bisbop~the whole particulars of a Bank of England cheque which
a friend of mine happened to have in his pocket, the nature, number.
and date of the cheque, the person in whose favour it was dro.wn, the
1!,erson who drew the cheque, and the bankers in whose favour it was
crossed, Mr. Bishop of course looking at the cheque from time to time.
Mr. Bishop then shewed what he believes to be the genuino
power of thought-reading that he possesses. Bome striking things
w~ done; for example he wrote with his finger on the door
certain figures corresponding to those that I had put on paper and
was thinking of but had shewn to no one else, his hand pressing mine
tightly against his forehead. He also twice discovered the exact locality
of a pain that I fixed upon, in one case with extreme accuraoy, but he
did not succeed so well with a friend; in this case also he pressed the
hand of the subject &.g9.mst his own forehead. He next tried some-
experiments wit·hout G'Ontact, his band being held very near mine; in
this way he moved backwards and forwards across the room in the
precise direction that I had previously, in his absence, written
down; other experiments without contact were not qUite so successfnl.
It is, however, very difficult to arrive at any satisfactory conclusions
from these experiments, owing to the extraordinary pantomime and
';, wriggling excited action which Mr. Bishop invariably employs, so
" utterly different from the silent, passive condition to which we have-
been accustomed in the experiments recorded in our report.
Digitized by Google
