{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tristan_jcg_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Tristan JCG Probable NDE 7749","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tristan JCG Probable NDE 7749  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tristan JCG Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3996 Tristan JCG Probable NDE 7749  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I can recall that everything around me, everything my eyes can see, and my reality disappeared. It felt like it dropped, I went up, or out of it.  It was like everything you can see with your eyes became liquid and dropped down.  I can remember that I was seeing reality became liquid and that all the colors on earth were traveling with my presence inside of it.  I was traveling at high speed through some sort of pipeline leading to a hole.  I was like a swirl such as like water being sucked down a hole in the sink. Once I was through the hole, I heard several noises like I was going through a sound barrier 'bof, bof, bof.'  I was tumbling and had difficulty flying straight like I was in space. I remember being very cold. I could hear myself thinking, 'It's so cold.' I felt frightening for a second. Then I saw what looked like a black hole.  I reminded me of the movie 'Contact' with Jody Foster. I saw flashes of very blight light.  I did not want to go through the back hole but I had to go.  I had no choice in the matter. I just tumbled or flew through it downwards. Then I was in a black void,  nothingness.  But, I was still able to think. I heard my deceased grandmother talking to me and it felt like I could hear her thoughts as she addressed them to me. It was like she was talking through means of telepathy. I remember thinking, 'I am dead. But I don't want to be dead. I have to take care of my best friend and dogs. Then I heard another voice.  This time it was an unfamiliar female voice asking me, 'Do you love Malcolm?' That is the name of my best friend. It felt like I was arguing to plead my case to stay alive for those reasons. Then I flew back the way I came.  I again heard the three short noises like going through a sound barrier 'bof, bof, bof.'  I then saw myself from above.  Everything was spinning, yet I still could see myself getting closer and closer to my body. 

Then I opened my eyes while sitting on my knees screaming, 'Yes, I love Malcolm!'  I remember I had a feeling that everything is going to be O.K.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  10-03-2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   My heart stopped and the emergency people that where called, told my mates that my heart stopped.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw myself from above in the left-hand corner of my room. I was clearly looking down on myself.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The same only the way of communication is different, like thinking aloud.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout the whole time, until the point I had to plead my case to stay alive.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There is no time. The whole experience felt like it lasted several hours, although I only was dead for 10 minutes.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was the same, although my surroundings were darker, like being in space with a bit of light.  It was like candlelight in a pitch-black room.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was different from on earth. When I was dead, I started to communicate in a different manner that was telepathic.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Twice during my NDE, I experienced traveling through or going through a hole.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandmother's voice and another female voice that I could not recognize.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw flashes of light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     My whole experience until the point where I could see myself from above looking down on me.  This happened in a different dimension or realm.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Sadness. Frightened. Blissfulness

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other faiths- New age   I believe in extra-terrestrial life

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     As stated before, I now am certain death is just part of life and not the end:  just a part of our journey.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   I believe  in extra-terrestrial life

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I believed in heaven but am now an atheist who believes the some sort of afterlife.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now am certain that death is just another doorway towards a different kind of existence.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I heard a female voice asking me a question, which was, 'Do you love Malcolm?'

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     The expierenced made me realise that I loved and love my bf malcolm.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     An unfamiliar female voice asked me a question.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     My grandmother informed me and told me that I had died.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     My experience made me realise that all of us are here because of love.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I have changed. Now I don't even squash a fly or ant. Now I go out of my way to protect and respect any living creature.  Why? I am not sure. Maybe out of love and a bit out of fear due to the fact I now am certain that there is an afterlife and that I will be judged somehow.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Contact with deceased loved ones continues after death. The feeling of love and acts of love is why we are here on this plane of existence.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told the people around me when came back to life.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It's real death is only the beginning.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Either I am delusional or crazy.  However, I now am convinced that there is an afterlife and that what we are, our consciousness is using our human body as a vessel to exist on this plane of existence. Love is the strongest force on earth and we are somehow part of that force.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Nothing to add, at this present time.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tristan_jcg_probable_nde.html