{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1trevor_fb_nde.html","mytitle":"Trevor FB NDE 4579","mylang":"de"}
          	        Trevor FB NDE 4579  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Trevor FB NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2306 Trevor FB NDE 4579  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had a hundred percent blocked artery (STEMI) heart attack at my desk. The pain was indescribable from the moment it started and with every beat of the heart got worse. I was extremely fortunate that there is a major cardiac hospital within four miles of my place of work. The ambulance crew arrived quickly and immediately started working on me. In the ambulance, I could feel myself dying. My body started to fade.

After that, I started to feel increasingly detached from the situation. It felt like everything was starting to slow down - like I was driving on the motorway and had drifted into a sand-filled safety lane.  I felt that the slowing down was not something I had a choice or control over, there was a tangible 'stop' point some minutes ahead and it was not avoidable - the rest of the world continued past me but I was stopping. When we got to the resuscitation room in the hospital, I felt very close to being entirely detached and was not frightened anymore. In fact, there was a great sense of calmness.  I knew with great certainty that there was nothing I could do about it.  The situation was entirely out of my control and therefore I could relax and just observe very closely. 

My point of vision was above and slightly to the rear of my head.  I noticed (I use the word 'notice' advisedly as I don't feel I 'saw' it) a loose circle of what I can only describe as 'stillness' or 'clearness' that was a mild distortion of the air, fabric of vision, in front of me. There was also a strong and overwhelming sense that beyond that was a very bright environment but I neither saw it nor experienced it. 

At that point, I believe that the drugs they had given me had opened the artery sufficiently to allow 1-5% of the blood through and this allowed me to stabilize and not continue to accelerate away. A few minutes later and the surgeon had cleared the blockage through my femoral artery and I was alive again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  9th Feb 2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack  I had a 100% blocked STEMI heart attach artery at my desk at work. I was dying in the ambulance.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was dying of a hundred percent blocked artery heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   At the end.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the end.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was out of the usual time zone - i.e. I was in an independent time zone.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     See main description.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I felt like I was in an auditory bubble.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     As described above that appeared to be the next stage that I did not (thankfully) reach - but I was left in n doubt that that WAS the next stage.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   As described above I felt strongly that there was very, very bright white light beyond that but did not actually see it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Clearness, calmness, clarity.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The 'exit' stillness that I saw was definitely where I was going next - my body would have carried on further into the hospital but that's where I would have 'left'.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I had no faith or conviction of any kind.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Looking into it as I feel I would like to understand more - but I am not expecting to find anything - just a better understanding of how others find God etc.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Looking into it as I feel I would like to understand more - but I am not expecting to find anything - just a better understanding of how others find God etc.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know now that life is incredibly fragile and hangs by the thinnest of threads. I know now - with incredible certainty - that there is 'something' going on post mortality and whatever it is I don't believe it's anything we have even guessed at yet.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am much, much closer to my family.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Not sure people would believe me!

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It has changed my life for the better. I know now that love is really the only thing.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    I have not told anyone at all about the 'exit stillness' - it did not seem appropriate or right somehow.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I was aware of the 'bright white light' scenario but had not and have not read any material specific to the subject before writing this experience down here.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It's as real to me as this website.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The memory is fading already but I am trying hard to hang onto it as I found it so very powerful. I can't explain the 'reality' of it any more than I can explain the reality of, say, toast - it is what it is.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Nope. Just very powerful.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Pretty good - keep up the good work.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1trevor_fb_nde.html