{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1trevor_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Trevor J NDE 22363","mylang":"de"}
          	        Trevor J NDE 22363  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Trevor J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2479 Trevor J NDE 22363  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Improvised explosive device bomb blast. I read up on how long it takes to bleed out from the femoral and brachial veins/arteries and it is within seconds.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  29 June 2007
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes       IED Bomb upper and lower left extremities damage. Damage to brachial and femoral vein/arteries.  Improvised explosive device bomb blast. I read up on how long it takes to bleed out from the femoral and brachial veins/arteries and it is within seconds.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was above the Humvee, I could feel the vehicle in a way but above it and it was dark. Then I was sent to another place.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       High.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It felt as if there was a plane of life above this ring of fire I was in and if I were to reach up and touch I may be able to see the past and possibly the future.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Crying, moaning, screams of torture, sadness, pure hell.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was surrounded by a ring of fire; I could not see my body.  Dark figures where around the fire.  There were millions of other rings of fires with souls in them. I saw our driver who was a Private being dragged away by the dark figures. I called on Jesus Christ to save me. A hole opened in the red skies and through the hole was a blue sky.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Dark figures and a Private who died in the bomb, being dragged away.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Mentally confused not aware but became stronger as time progress. Extreme emotions of fear.  No smell or physical type awareness.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme fear, horror, despair, agony, suffering, confused.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I believe I was in another world or place of existence.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   In this place you cannot even talk but I uttered the words ‘Jesus Christ please save me from this’ and immediately afterwards a hole opened in the red sky and as I gazed through the hole which was a bright blue sky, I was sent right back into my body in the blown up Humvee.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I felt as though I was sent to hell or purgatory and because of my faith in Jesus Christ I was spared. I was in a place where no one in the whole creation of life knew where I was and because I uttered His Name Jesus Christ, I was immediately transported back to my body. Because of the paranormal stuff has led me into a spiritual battle and stronger faith in GOD.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Not really I remember it as if it was yesterday but to explain the fear and emotions is hard.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Paranormal activities regarding myself and my family( my wife and four daughters)

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best (if you can call it that)- Increase in my catholic faith  Worst- confused at the whole experience and why I had to see the things I saw and what do I do with.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Priest, Radio hosts, friends and family.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have had out of body experiences as a child. I have experienced angels as well as demons as a child. I was on the verge of death when I was five, but the experiences I mentioned happened later at around seven and then at nine or ten.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I had googled a bunch of stuff regarding near death and how long are you conscious after your body has bleed out. The only answers are GOD must have a purpose for you (doesn't he for everyone) or from a scientific point, my consciousness was still operating and everything I experienced was based from the hard drive of my brain. That was what I depicted as hell and stuff. Please help me to understand a little of this and are there others out there as myself. I hear the light at the end of the tunnel or I saw my grandmother hanging clothes in a field of flowers but my experience is totally opposite from that.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1trevor_j_nde.html