{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1trent_c_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Trent C Probable NDE 9725","mylang":"de"}
          	        Trent C Probable NDE 9725  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Trent C Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5250 Trent C Probable NDE 9725  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I am an experienced emergency medicine physician.  

  I was involved in a snowmobile crash last year.  It crushed my entire chest wall and thoracic spine. Somehow, I was not paralyzed despite  26 fractures of ribs, spine, and clavicle.  During spine surgery,  my breathing tube clotted off while I was in a prone position and I could not breathe.    

  I have a vivid memory of white hexagons, arranged linearly, on each side of my visual field. The heagons  flipped from white to black, towards an apex at the top of my visual field. I had  an associated warm, easy feeling.  Then, I saw an image of my wife and children silently shaking their heads 'no' at the apex.  

Everything went black.  I assume that was when they exchanged my breathing tube and my oxygen level normalized.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 03/04/2022  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   There was nothing else to focus on, I guess  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the hexagons were flipping etc.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Everything seemed slower  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Very much more vivid and focused, zero distractions  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    no audio recollection  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     kind of, series of hexagons, on each slide of my visual field, flipping from white to black, merging at bright white apex, could be tunnel like I guess  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My wife and children  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   see above  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calmness/peace  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I just felt calm, didn't need to make any decisions, everything just happened  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   My family shaking their heads silently 'no'  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   Raised Catholic, have not practiced in years  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I am a confirmed Catholic but to not practice any faith, agnostic.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I really have zero fear of death  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     My spouse and kids were at the apex of my vision. Without their love, not sure I would be alive  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Physical disability sucks, but I am working full time as an EM physician, and working through my emotional trauma  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  My hospitalization was a blur, except for that event  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My family is more important than anything else  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    one month after tried to describe it to my spouse, not sure she understood  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I am an EM physician, I am around near death all the time  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was just so damn clear, compared to the fog of the rest of my ICU stay  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Flashbacks at times during major trauma resuscitations         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1trent_c_probable_nde.html