{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tracy_s_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Tracy S Possible NDE 7197","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tracy S Possible NDE 7197  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tracy S Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3650 Tracy S Possible NDE 7197  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					While I was pregnant, I kept having horrible, bloody dreams like I was getting a fishing hook stuck in my arm and pulling everything out. I started to have panic attacks about giving birth, but had NO medical issues or problems. Not to be too gruesome, but during the final push during birth, everything ripped and there was blood everywhere: the floor, the walls, my doctor. My doctor was a big burly, former football player, who did not get scared or nervous easily. I saw a look of panic on his face but I didn't know what to think. 

I thought at first there was something wrong with my daughter and kept asking them to tell me what was wrong. They took her to the nursery immediately. No one would tell me what was happening but they made my friend, who was in the delivery room with me, leave. The doctor said he was going to put me to sleep because he needed to 'fix everything'. That made me worry more and I was crying because I didn't know what was happening. That was at 5:30 am. 

The next thing I remember, I felt that I was lying face-up floating beyond the hospital ceiling light. There was extremely bright light everywhere, which was warm. I slid backwards a little until it seemed my face was right against the ceiling lights. I was still face-up, like floating in a pool, and looked down at myself in the bed. I looked down and to the right, I saw my doctor at the stand beside my bed, writing in my file and checking my IV. I tried to speak to him or wave to him to get his attention but nothing worked. I kept trying, but at the same time, I was floating down, backwards, 'into my body'. 

As soon as I returned to my body, I hurt badly all over. I woke up alert around 3 pm, but I had lost all track of time. I told my mom about it but she didn't believe me and said it 'was probably the drugs they had you on'. The only thing is, I am not one to dream. The only dreams I could remember are the ones when I was pregnant. Usually, I am way too tired and as soon as I lay down, I'm out cold all night long. I asked my doctor what happened but he wouldn't tell me. He would nervously avoid me. 

In 2012, my younger sister who is 15 years old now, began to see spirits. My mother had every medical and psychological testing done on her to rule everything out. All tests came back normal. We have photographic evidence as well as sound recordings.  We had gone to see a psychic to see what they would say. The psychic knew nothing about us, not even our names. He looked at me and asked 'Have you died before or had a near death experience?' I told him exactly what happened. He said that he feels I should have the gift, too, but there is something there blocking it partially.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  6/23/2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Childbirth, significant loss of blood

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw and heard what my doctor was doing in the room, heard the IV beeping, people passing in the hall.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I came down from the bright light and was hovering over my bed and doctor, I remember everything clearly. I remember trying to get the doctor's attention.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Looking down, it was like everyday vision, as if I were in a room with someone else.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear everything that was going on: beeping of the IV, shuffling of papers, people passing by the hospital room.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     When I was in the light, I slid down backwards a little until my face was at the ceiling light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was very bright and warm, like closing your eyes outside on a sunny summer day but much more intense.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Floating above, not in my body

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was scared and panicked because I didn't know what was happening and couldn't get the doctor's attention to help me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   I was raised a Mormon but have considered myself a non denominational/affiliated Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Same as above

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     seeing my body below me

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     bright white light

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     just the light & warmth

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown     Unknown

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's hard to describe the warmth and brightness of the light, the panic I felt trying to get the doctor's attention and how badly it hurt coming into my body.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     The psychic told me, with no prior knowledge, that I had a near death experience and said that I could have the gift but there's something blocking it; my sister can see spirits.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It made me see from the other side how close spirits are to us: close enough to touch.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The same day. My mom didn't believe me. I don't know if she does now. When I tell others, they don't believe me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was like I was there in the room seeing my own body.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can't remember details of the rare dreams that I do have, but I can remember this event vividly.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Some movies        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tracy_s_possible_nde.html