{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1traveler_nde.html","mytitle":"Traveler NDE 869","mylang":"de"}
          	        Traveler NDE 869  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Traveler NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						347  Traveler NDE  869  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I believe that I was in intermediary care and was no longer in intensive care.  I do not remember getting out or back into my body, but I (my higher consciousness) was near the ceiling.  I knew that my mother and another female were at the foot of my bed, but I was only concerned about what was going on near the ceiling.  I did not see my body on the hospital bed and knew that I had no body.  I knew that I was near death.  There was a beautiful spiritual entity, which I felt enveloped and embraced me with indescribable love and peace; I felt connected to ALL -- I was at total peace -- everything made sense for me.  I cannot imagine feeling love like that until I die.  Warmth, unconditional love, and heightened knowledge were a part of my NDE.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    December 5, 1979

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident     I did flat line, but do not think that it was clinical death.Car accident -- lost half the blood in my body -- had to sign for my own surgery as time was of the essence -- the signature looks like a wavy line.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Highest that I have ever experienced.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I was not concerned about time -- I was in the MOMENT so in that respect, I suppose that was what we should do more on this earth.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I was embraced by a spiritual being, and I felt love like never before.  I was at total peace.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Everything made sense -- everything had a purpose from an ant to a human -- all was one and connected.  I didn't wonder about anything.  I was at TOTAL peace.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Mainstream Protestant--United Methodist

What is your religion now?      Liberal   I am still United Methodist, but do not believe that religion is necessary to achieve enlightenment--my NDE made me more aware of ONENESS and the CONNECTEDNESS of ALL.  It opened my mind--I got two master's and did a research project on Trans-Cultural NDE's--I became hungry for knowledge.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I was open-minded, but I met with many psychics and had, and do have, an insatiable thirst for knowledge -- I blended Eastern philosophic beliefs with my Protestant beliefs.  I traveled to Egypt and Peru, but feel that the truth lies within and that one can be aware of the spiritual world to the same degree anywhere -- particularly, though, when one is alone.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   I cannot share it with many people, but I ALWAYS get cold chills when I do -- chills in a very good way.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I sense things more as in I will think of someone whom I have not seen nor heard from a long time, and then that person will call or I will see that person.  I have significant numbers that pop up everywhere at times from license plates, when a significant e-mail was sent, on the clock.   When this happens a lot, I am reminded that the spiritual world is with me -- I particularly notice this when I am a little down and need a lift and am reminded what life is all about -- that the spiritual world is ONE with us.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best -- the spiritual being.  Worst -- Nothing.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I can tell when someone will be receptive.  When they are, they are awed in a wonderful way.  Fundamentalists aren't interested.  Professors for the most part were not -- I had my thesis idea turned down three times -- 'Trans-Cultural NDE's' and had to change schools to do a research project.  I had to write on NDE's.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Synchronicities abound, so those are like the connectedness that I felt and still do.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1traveler_nde.html