{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 9421","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n35_dec_1886.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N35 December 1886","mylang":"de"}
No. XXXV.-VOL. n. DZCBIIBBR 1886.
JOURNA.L
01' THB
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Membel'll and AuocIatea .• .. .. •. .. .. ..
:.ve:olJ~~~.Sldptct·ioMr. WedpoOOd'sRePiy :: :: :: •.
AD Account of an Outbra&k of BeJIgIOU8 Hlilluclnatlou In the BahamaII, Wllllt Indlllll
Correepondence . • .. .. .. •• .. .. ..
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
KNOWLES, ERNEST, Inglehurst Park Road, Bolton-Ie-Moors.
SANDILAND8, HARRY, 90, New Bond Street, London, W.
PolOB
478
f78
f7f
486
488
SAND8, MRS. MARLON, 25, George Street, Hanover Square, London, W.
ASSOCIATES.
CLARKE, FREDERICK, W. A, 5, Pyrland Road, Richmond, Surrey.
CooKE, REV. JOHN HUNT, Cape House, Coolhurst Road, Crouch End,
London, N. .
FABER, KNUD HUGE, M.D., 25, Livj81gergade, Copenhagen.
FAIR, FREDERICK KENDALL, Lieutenant R.E., Brompton Barracks,
Chatham.
GUNTON, REV. CHARLE8 FORSTER, Farlam Vicarage, Milton, Carlisle.
HUMPHREY&, EDWARD H. P., Denmark Hill, London, S.E.
MALLESON, EDMUND T., Duppas Hill, Croydon.
PILCHER, ARTHUR J., Lieutenant R.E., Brompton Barracks, Chatham.
STEEL, M188, 33, Argyll Road, Kensington, London, W.
THOMPSON, MRS. STANLEY, 80, South Audley Street, Grosvenor
Square.
MEETINGS OF COUNCIL.
At a Meeting of the Council held on the 3rd inst., the following
Members were present :-Messrs. Edmund Gurney, Richard Hodgson,
Frank Podmore, H. Arthur Smith and J. Herbert Stack. Mr. Stack
was voted to the chair.
The minutes of the previous meeting were read and signed as
correct.
On the proposition of Mr. Edmund Gurney, Mr. J. Venn, D.Sc.,
F.R.S., of Petersfield House, Cambridge, was unanimously elected a.
Member of the Council in accordance with Rule 17.,
2 H
Digitized by Google
474 Jm.l/Mw,l of Society for Psychical Research. [o...c., 1886.
Three new Members and ten new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given in the preceding page, were elected.
Letters were read from two Members of Council, Mr. Alexander
Calder and the Rev. 'V. Stainton Moses, resigning their official posi-
tions and withdrawing from the Society. Their resignations were
accepted with expressions of regret.
Information was received with regret of the decease of Mr. John
P. Turner, of Birmingham, an Associate.
Mr. Edmund Gurney was elected as a Member of the House and
Finance Committee.
The Cash Account for the month of November was presented in
the usual form.
Mention was made of the dissatisfaction that had been expressed
on account of the Literary Committee not having examined the
evidence for the "physical phenomena" of Spiritualism, and it was
agreed to invite a report from the Literary Committee on the subject.
The next Meeting of the Council will be held on Friday, the 7th of
January, 1887, unless it is found advisable to summon one earlier.
REJOINDER BY MRS. H. SIDGWICK
TO MR. WEDGWOOD'S REPLY.
Mr. Wedgwood is quite right in supposing that the evidence which
he brought befOre us in the November Journal was known to me, so
far as it had then been published, when I wrote about Mr. Eglinton in
June. And since the whole of this evidence was obtained with
mediums who had been detected in trickery, he is also right in regard-
ing me as prejudiced against it-if the term prejudice is to be applied
to the assumption that persons who have once endeavoured to pass off
trickery as mediumship must be assumed likely to do so again, and that
consequently no evidence about their phenomena is worthy of considera-
tion if it allows the slightest loophole for possible trickery. But as J
regard this as an assumption that every reasonable person will make, I
should not myself call it a prejudice.
Before proceeding to show that Mr. Wedgwood's cases abound in
such loopholes, I must point out a curious confusion in his article. In
a paper devoted to Mr. Eglinton in the Journal for June, 1886, and in
remarks referring exclusively to him, I commented on the absence of
satisfactory evidence that he had ever produced writing under conditions
dispensing with the necessity for continuous observation on the part of
the investigator. Mr. Wedgwood quotes some of these remarks, and in
Dec.,l886.] J0'U1-nal of Society for Psychical Research. 475
order to prove that I am wrong in supposing that there is no such
evidence in Mr. Eglinton's case, mentions several instances in which he
thinks it has been obtained with Dr. Monck and Dr. Slade. But it is
clearly irrelevant in a discussion about Mr. Eglinton to allude to
superior performances by others, unless it be with a view to his dispar-
agement, since it would not increase our confidence in Mr. Eglinton if
we were to find that slate-writing could be obtained under satisfactory
conditions through other mediums, but not through him.
However, I need not quarrel with Mr..Wedgwood about this,
because he probably really meant to reply to a passage in my paper in
P'I'ocwiing' x., pp. 70-72, in which I point out as regards Spiritualism
gent'rally, that the continued absence of really good evidence that
experiments have ever succeeded which would have placed "the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism beyond all question of conjuring,
by eliminating the necessity for continuous observation and accurate
recollection on the part of the investigator," is an increasingly serious
reason for doubting whether such phenomena are ever genuine. The
argument from the absence of such evidence has not the same con-
clusive force when we are considering Spiritualism in general that it has
when we are considering Mr. Eglinton in particular, because it has to
be balanced in the first case against the great improbability that all
mediums, public and private, through whom "physical phenomena"
have occurred, would consciously or unconsciously simulate them;
while the supposition that Mr. Eglinton has simulated them is rendered
in a high degree probable by what we know of his previous career.
But it behoves all persons who, like myself, think that there is
reason to believe that genuine "physical phenomena" do sometimes
occur, and that if they do it is of immense importance to prove it,-to
remember that the argument in question grows in force, and that if it
cannot, by proper experiments, be removed, it must ultimately prove
fatal to any scientific recognition of the alleged facts.
Mr. Wedgwood's cases have, obviously, no tendency to remove it.
We may conveniently take together the very similar evidence of
Mrs. Louisa Andrews and of Mr. George Seymour to the occurrence of
writing between slates screwed together. The experiment ht'1'&-in
Mrs. Andrews' case at least-has one of the characteristics required-
namely, that the slates were fastened up before the seance and opened
afterwards away from the medium. But unfortunately I find it
impossible to agree with Mr. Wedgwood in regarding slates men-Iy
screwed together as for the present purpose "securely closed," and the
space between them as "entirely inaccessible to the medium." To
take out and replace a screw requires at most a screw-driver (I have
2 H 2
Digitized by Google
476 Journal 0/ Society /01' Psychieal Resoo1Y:h. [Dec., 1~.
sometimes found the back of a knife sufficient), and screw-drivers are
common household implements, besides being frequently attached to
pocket knives. Mrs. Andrews and Mr. Seymour would probably
reply that the mediums had no opportunity of unscrewing and
screwing up the slates. But the evidence for that depends on their
power of continuous observation and accurate recollection-recollection,
too, in both cases after a considerable interval of time. After my
experience with Mr. A., the amateur conjurer (see Proceedings X.,
p. 67), I cannot regard it as at all unlikely that the mediums should
have found the required opportunities. Mr. A. wrote a long message
completely covering one side of my friend's slate, and we had not the
least idea. that we had given him any opportunity of doing so. To
those who know the kind of opportunity likely to be given no reason
appears why it should either have taken longer, or have bet'n more
difficult, to unscrew the slates,write the sentences obtained on them, and
screw them up again. In one respect indeed the screwed-up slate
phenomenon would be decidedly easier to produce, for once the slates
were safely screwed up again there would be no danger of premature
discovery of the writing; whereas ~Ir. A. had, I suspect, considerable
anxiety abOut preventing premature discovery of his writing by my
friend and myself_ And apart from the possibility of opening the
slates during the seance, it should be noticed--especially in relation to
the case of Mrs. Andrews-that in neither account are we told that the
slates were screwed up immediately before they were taken into the
seance-room.
In the rest of Mr. Wedgwood's instances there is not even an
attempt made to secure the slates before the seances so as to render the
surface written on inaccessible to the medium during the whole of the
seance.
Taking these in order we will consider first the case where, Dr.
Monck being the medium, writing was obtained on a slate which
during part of the seance had a board nailed over it. A fatal objection
to this experiment is that it was suggested by the medium himself, (or,
what for this purpose comes to the same thing, his" control" Samuel,)
and carried out apparently in all its details according to his directions.
It is in this respect, therefore, to be compared with public performances
of conjurers, which we must all have heard described in a way that
makes them seem inexplicable. If we examine this particular account
to see whether it suggests any explanation, the first point that strikes
us is that it is expressly stated that the hammer and tacks used
belonged to one of the witnesses, but that no such statement is made as
regards either the slate, the board, or the book from which the quota-
Dec., 1886.] JO'U'MUJl, of Society for Psychical .Research. 477
tion was taken. It seems highly probable, therefore, that these were the
property of Dr. Monck, and, if so, they may have been specially
contrived with a view to this performance. For instance, the slate Dl&y
have bad a false surface, so that when the witnesses cleaned it they
~leaned a surface which Dr. Monck afterwards found an opportunity to
remove, leaving the writing, which was already below it, visible ;-and
the book may have had several similar pages numbered 133. But it is
not necessary to resort to these suppositions. All the implements used
may have belonged to the sitters, and their suitableness to the occasion
may have prompted Dr. Monck to suggest the experiment. The same
number of the Medium and Daybreak from which Mr. Wedgwood
quotes (that for October 27th, 1876), contains an engraving of the
slate, reduced, we are told, by photography. From this and the
description given, it appears that the slate used was a small one-
7f by 51 inches~nd that. the board (the lid of a cigar box) was
secured with five tacks-two at each end and one at one side. The board,
being narrower than the slate, extended a very little way on to the
frame on the remaining side, and probably there was no room for a tack
there. Thinking that such a board so secured could, after being forced
off, be replaced by pressing with the hands without using a hammer, I
determined to try the experiment. I similarly secured the lid of a cigar
box to my own slate with tacks, which I happened to have by me, and
which, as far as I could judge from the engraving, corresponded with
those used at the seance under discussion. Then after forcing off the
board, I tried to replace it, using my hands only. The experiment, which
I tried several times, was not always quite successful. I was not always
able to press every tack in up to its head, owing probably to its being
slightly bent either by the ha.mmering in, or in the forcing of[ I
thought this was perhaps due to the hard wood of which the frame
of my sla.te is made. That used at Dr. Monck's sl!a.nce is said to have
been common deal. Accordingly I tried nailing the cigar box lid to a
common deal board. The difficulty I bad experienced new entirely
vanished,-I found none in replacing the lid after removal, nor in
pushing in all the tacks completely. The lid, moreover, when so
replaced held more firmly than I should have expected. It required
some forcing to get it again oft; though, of course, less than the first
time. I also ascertained, by doing it with my eyes shut, that even
without practice one could take the board off and put it on again in the
dark; and, further, that with suitable arrangements one can write ten
parallel lines sufficiently well in the dark to justify the supposition that
practice would make perfect in the art. The whole evidence, then
(apart from the quotation), even if we accept the description of the
sitting as strictly accurate, rests on Mr. Lonsdale's belief that he kept
Digitized by Google
4078 Journal of Society for Psycitwcd Research. [Dec., 1886.
his hands on the slates throughout the time while t~e gas was out. The
nailing on of the board was a misleading complication, calculated to
make him less careful than he might otherwise have been. I know
nothing about Mr. Lonsdale or his fellow witnesses, but I cannot think
that we ought to trust his, or anyone's, observation and memory to the
extent required to assure us that an experienced trickster like Dr.
Monck could not under the circumstances have succeeded in obtaining
possession of the slates for some portion of the dark period,-possibly
substituting a similar combination of frame and board for Mr. Lonsdale
to guard in the meanwhile.
But Mr. Wedgwood will ask how on this hypothesis I explain what
seems to him the most important point in the experiment-the correct
quotation from a page which, according to the account, was decided
on by Mr. Clapham'S opening the book at a venture after the
gas was relit. The book, if a genuine one, may perhaps have
had a tendency to open at p. 133, a tendency which Dr. Monck
may have caused, and which in any case he may have ascertained and
availed himself of. Or, it is possible that he forced p. 133 on Mr.Clapham
while giving him the impression that he chose at random. It will be
observed that failure would have carried with it no risk to Dr. ~Ionck.
Mediums play with Spiritualists at a game of "heads I win tails you
lose." Suppose that Mr. Clapham had opened the book at some
other page-say p. 145. No one would have thought the worse of either
Dr. Monck or "Samuel." Why should theyt Spirits are not
infallible, and besides, probably Mr. Clapham fumbled about a little
before he decided on p. 145, and so confused" Samuel" as to which
page he really meant. That is the sort of thing that would have been
&aid. The whole incident would of course have been less striking,
and perhaps no account of it would have been sent to the Medium,
though on the other hand the great importance of obtaining writing
under a board might have been held to more than counterbalance the
little failure about the quotation.
There are other possibilities which (supposing that the book was
prepared to open at p. 133) do not appear to me to be excluded. Thus
the entire slate portion of the slate might have been removable and
another similar piece of slate, prepared with the writing, might
have been substituted during the interval of darkness. The fact that
one side-piece of the frame had no tack in it suggests ways in which
this might have been contrived without any need of disturbing the
remaining part of the frame or the board on which Mr. Lonsdale's hands
are said to have rested continuously. And only the frame of the slate
appears to have been marked-not the slate itself. Moreover I should
not myself trust the accuracy of the account 80 fully as Mr. Wedgwood
Digitized by Google
Dec.,1886.] JOU1"1Wl of Society for Psychical Research. 479
appears to do; indeed, Mr. Wedgwood goes further than the account
warrants, for he says, "The slates" (by which I presume he means the
ringle ,late mentioned) "by the plainest inference from the wotds of
the narrative, were never in possession of Monck from the commence-
ment of the experiment." I cannot agree that this inference is justified,
and I even think that the writing may have been on the slate through-
out. Dr. Monck might have held the slate for Mr. Lonsdale to clean
it, and might have manipulated the slate so that Mr. Lonsdale cleaned
the same side twice. Dr. Monck might then have appeared to show
both sides clean before the full jet of gaslight; and the writing of the
initials on the frame (and this is the only supposition involving a
divergence between the account and the impression of the sitters at the
time-that is, involving inaccuracy of memory) might have/ollQW6d, not
preceded, this exhibition. According to the additional details given in
the Medium, the writing and the board were not on the side of the
slate which had heen marked. To nail on the board, therefore, the slate
must have been turned over. Dr. Monck may have turned it, and in
doing so have covered the writing with the board, holding this in
position till the tacks were driven in. Or, again, Mr. Lonsdale may
have cleaned one slate, shown both sides before the gaslight, and tllAJn
placed it on the table to be initialled, and at this stage Dr. Monck
might have substituted anotlUJr slate. In short, it is obvious that a case
of this kind falls very far short of the evidential standard which Mr.
Wedgwood applies to it-that, namely, qf having been produced,
according to tllAJ testimony qf thoroughly competent and t'I"UBtfAXYf"thy
witneBBeB, under circumstances which dispensed with the neceBBity 0/
continUOUB ob,ervation.
Mr. Wedgwood next iustances experiences of Professor Zollner's
with Dr. Slade. In the first, either before or during the seance
(we are not told which, and we have no reason to suppose that
Dr. Slade did not himself suggest the experiment), two slates
which Prpfessor Zollner believed to be his own and to be marked
by himself (but we are not told how he convinced himself that his
mark H. 2-made we are not told when or how-was not imitated),
were tied together (we are not told by whom).
We can hardly say that this description excludes the possibility that
the writing was there before the slates were tied together at all.
Professor Zollner considered (see Mr. Massey's translation, second
edition, pp. 78-79) that on account of his reputation as an experimental
physicist we ought to assume that he took the necessary precautions
against trickery, even though he does not mention them. I have, to
some extent, explained elsewhere (Proceeding, X., p. 65, foot-note),
Digitized by Google
480 Journal of Society for Psychical Reseal"ch. [Dec., 1886.
why I cannot agree with him. And the description of the re-
maining part of the experiment we are discussing is one of the
passages in his writings which convince me that he had so little idea of
the possibilities of conjuring, as to make his testimony almost worthless
in a matter where trickery is the most important known cause to be
excluded.
The slates tied together as above stated (not a secure mode of
fastening) were placed on the corner of a table. Weare not told which
corner, but from the statement that his hands were two feet from it I
infer that it was next Dr. Slade; since, had it been on the other side
of the table, it would have been more forcible to say that he could not
reach it without stretching across. Professors Zollner and Weber and
the medium then sat at the table and occupied themselves with
magnetic experiments. As the scene is described-the attention of
the two professors being well occupied with the compass needle--
conjurer would hardly desire a more favourable opportunity for untying
the slates, writing on them, and tying them up again. There is here,
I think, no doubt as to whether the necessary precautions were taken
or not--it seems certain that they were not taken When, as
Professor Zollner supposed, "very loud writing began" (it is "writing"
in my edition of Mr. Massey's translation, not "rapping" as Mr.
Wedgwood has it), the real performance was probably over, and Dr.
Slade was making a noise under the table.
In the next case, as in Dr. Monck's, we have an experiment pre-
scribed by the medium himself, and here again all depends on Professor
Zollner's observation, since the trick, if, as I believe, there was one,
was doubtless done before the slates were sealed together. It is impor-
tant to notice (1) that there were " several" similar slates on the table;
and (2) that the seance began, according to Mr. Massey'S translation of
Zollner, as follows :-
Scarcely were we seated, when Slade fell into a trance, . . . folded
his hands. and uttered, with altered voice and head upturned, 80 fine I
prayer, that I shall never forget the impre88ion which the noble speech and
the fervour with which the prayer was spoken made upon me. The impres-
sion was to me 80 unexpected, and interested me, by the IIlBthetic (1) in the
whole demeanour of Slade with his almost transfigured countenance, 80
highly, that I did not remember to write down the words.
It seems not improbable that Professor Zollner also did not
remember, during this dramatic scene, to watch Dr. Slade's hands, and
that these were occupied in covering two of the slates with writing.
The phrases written may have been part of the "prayer," and their
incoherence and the faults of spelling, &c., which they exhibit may be
due to the medium's divided attention. Then (3) Professor Zollner's
gitized by (.oogI
Dec.,I886.] Journal of Society for Psy~hical Research. 4081
description of the process of sealing is very inadequate and obviously
omits important details. He says :-
Slade now desired me to take two of the new slates, and lay a splinter
of slate-pencil between them, and then to seal these two slatesfinnly together.
I did this, after having again utisJied myself that the slates were perfectly
clean.
Where was the sealing-wax' On the table' And if not, who
fetched it1 Was it fetched before or after Professor Zollner satisfied
himself that the slates were clean 1 And how were the slates held in
position while they were being sealed 1 They were large slates, 334
D1illimetres-more than l3in.-long, and 155 millimetres-& little over
6in.-wide. We do no violence whatever to Professor Zollner's descrip-
tion if we suppose that events happened as follows: Professor Zollner
placed two of his slates together, having seen that they were clean (the
"again" refers to his having cleaned them before leaving home). He
then rose to get the sealing-wax, and Slade seized the opportunity to
substitute, for the two slates arranged by Professor Zollner, those on
which he had written. Just as Professor Zollner returned to his place,
Slade took up the two slates in the most natural way possible and held
them together for Zollner to seal. The subsequent raising of the slates
on edge could doubtless have been done by Dr. Slade with his foot;
they were in a convenient position for this, and he has, I understand,
been detected in the very act of using his feet to produce similar
phenomena.
As to the" perfectly clear account of writing produced between a
pair of hinged slates padlocked together," to which Mr. Wedgwood
briefly refers, I need only point out that there are too many keys in the
world for an ordinary padlock to be regarded as certainly rendering the
interior of the slates "entirely inaccessible to the medium." The pad-
lock in question, as I learn from Mr. Hodgson, who has seen it, is a.
common one, and can be opened without" audible sound" if the key is
turned slowly, though in any case I should attach little importance to
its noisiness as a security against surreptitious opening. Further, as I
a.lso learn, the slate was, according to the witness "F." 's remembrance,
locked and unlocked at least twice after the arrival of the sitters, and
before the apparent production of the writing. The case, therefore, is
not one avoiding the necessity of continuous observation-indeed,
"F." himself lays the main stress of his evidence on his jealous
guarding of the slates. The details of the va.rious conditions, time
intervals, «c., were not, I learn, recorded on the day of the sitting,
but were given from memory nearly two years later; the record made
at the time consisting of little else than the questions and answers.
Digitized by Google
482 Journal of Society for Psychical .Research. (Dec., 1886.
We have, therefore, to allow, not only for the usual defects of observa-
tion and of memory which can hardly fail to mar a record made
immediately after a sitting, but for the more serious lapses which must
inevitably have occurred during this long subsequent interval, and
which must, in my opinion, fundamentally impair the value of the
record.
It appears, then, that all the six cases brought forward byMr.Wedg-
wood completely fail to reach the required standard. In only one of them
-that of Mrs. Andrews-were the slates both (1) fastened tinally before
being brought to the seance, and also (2) not unfastened till after the
seance was over and in the absence of the medium; and in that case
the fastening was not secure. In only one case-the slates sealed t&-
gather by Professor Zollner-was the fastening at all secure; and in
that case it is easy to suggest how the writing may have been done
before the faswning.
I now come to the weak point in Mr. Wedgwood's own experiment
in obtaining writing between closed slates, and his criticism of my
suggestions about it. The suggestion that the slates might have been
tampered with in the interval betwe~n the two seances seems to Mr.
Wedgwood absurd. But this is, I think, only because he has not
reflected sufficiently upon the various possibilities, and the only one
that has occurred to him-namely, that Mr. Eglinton should knock at
the door and offer the servant who happened to open it a bribe to give
him the slates,-is, as he says, incredible. But how can Mr.
Wedgwood know that Mr. Eglinton had no previous acquaintance with
any of his servants 1 How can he tell that he was not in relations
with the brother, or the fiance of one of them t Burglaries have been
effected with the assistance of servants, yet in probably 999 cases out
of 1,000 a burglar would meet with an "indignant rebuff" if he
walked up to a servant he did not know, and asked her to help him
to rob her employer. And many persons who could never be induced
to connive at a burglary, might not be too scrupulous to permit a pair
of common slates to be taken away for a few hours, receiving perhaps
a substantial pledge for their safe return.
But I think i~ not impossible that Mr. Wedgwood may himself
have contributed to the letting of those slates out of his keeping, and
have now forgotten all about it. He has frequently had seances at his
house. Is it not possible. that at some of these seances the sealed-
up slates may have been produced with other things 1 Is it not eVE'n
possible that whether they were produced from the cupboard by Mr.
Wedgwood himself or not, they may on one occasion have gone away
Digitized by Google
Dec., 1886.] Journal of Society fm' Psychical Research. 483
unobserved in the bag of the medium-not necessarily Mr. Eglinton,
but maybe a friend of his-and similarly have returned on the occasion
of another seance 1 Here then are.two poBBibilities, neither of which
seems to me incredible; and if it were worth while one could probably
think of other ways in which Mr. Eglinton might temporarily have
obtained poBBession of the slates. Nor do I think that in any case
he would have been running serious risk. The circumstances in con-
nection with the exposure made by Archdeacon Colley are enough to
show that if Mr. Eglinton had failed in such an attempt, and even if
the denunciation had been made which Mr. Wedgwood thinks must
infallibly have followed, he need not have feared that he would
"irretrievably ruin his own character" with Spiritualists.
My other suggestion, that Mr. Eglinton may have prepared a pair
of slates in imitation of Mr. Wedgwood's and exchanged them at the
second sitting (or perhaps earlier), see~ to him absurd, partly because
he aBBumes that a .. hasty glance at the slates" was all the opportunity
which Mr. Eglinton had at the first sitting of fixing every particular
in his memory. But according to Mr. Wedgwood's own recollection of
what occurred at the first sitting, that aBBumption is by no means
justified. Mr. Wedgwood sent me an account of this first sitting
in a letter written on the 4th of last June, and I do not think he will
object to my describing it in his own words.
We sat down on the opposite sides of the table with a pile of slates
within his reach, I holding my own sealed pair. Then the gas was put out,
and he handed me a pair of slates and end of twine, and told me to fasten
them together. I laid down my slates before me and did 10. He handed
me a second pair, which I treated in the same way, and then by his directions
placed my own sealed pair between the two pairs just tied together, and held
my hands on them till the s~nce ended, getting nothing on any of the slates.
I took away my own pair sealed and tied as I had brought them, and they were
never out of my keeping till lOme month. afterwards I determined to try
again. and now in addition to the sealed string I gummed the whole frame
round 80 that there should be no acceBS whatever to the illBide.
Mr. Wedgwood was certainly not holding his own slates while he
succeBSively tied up the other two pairs, and I see no reason for
supposing that he held them during any material part of the dark
s~nce. Even, therefore, if it be strictly true that Mr. Eglinton had little
opportunity of seeing the slates, it seems clear that he may have had
much opportunity of handling theD;l, of measuring the exact position of
the seals, of taking impreBBions of them,* of gauging the twine, and
• I do not see how Mr. Wedgwood can know that Mr. Eglinton had not
obtained a counterfeit of his seal, one with .. H.W." on it, before this.
Mr. Wedgwood was so well known &8 an investigator and employer of
mediums, that it may well have been worth while to keep copies of his seal.
Digitized by Google
484 JO'U1"1Utl of Society for Psychical &search. (Dec., 1886.
observing how it was tied, as well as of noting the size and kind of
slates-slates, it must be remembered, being manufactured wholesale
in definite patterns and sizes.
Mr. Wedgwood thinks that when he left, after the first sitting,
Mr. Eglinton had no reason to suppose that he would make a second
attempt. But this is again an assumption. Mr. Eglinton may have
determined that if Mr. Wedgwood did not spontaneously try his slates
again, he would indirectly suggest to him to do so, either through
other spiritualists or other mediums. Mr. Wedgwood may even have
been conscious when he applied for the second seance that he was
acting on some one's suggestion, and have forgotten it now, after the
interval of some years.
But, granting all this, Mr. Wedgwood thinks he interposed another
insurmountable obstacle to this mode of deceiving him by adding the
gummed paper. He is careful to emphasize the fact that he did not
use postage paper for this, because by a slip he said, in an account
which he sent to Ligl"" in 1885, that he did use postage paper. (I think
it is by a similar slip that he speaks in the November Journal of an
interval of "two months" between the two seances, while in previous
accounts he had called it" some months," or "two or three months.")
But it is very unimportant whether the paper used was postage paper
or not, since, as appears to be the case, it was, at any rate, not any very
rare or peculiar kind of paper, or paper secretly marked in any way.
For if the trick was done at all in the way we are discussing, the
gummed paper was probably added to the imitation pair of slates a{ltw
Mr. Wedgwood hsd arrived at the house and shown his own gummed
up slates.* To do this Mr. Eglinton had only to leave the room-it
would not take long---and he frequently leaves the room on one excuse
or another during his seances. It is true that Mr. Wedgwood thinks
he "could not be mistaken as to the individual peculia.rities of his own
handiwork," but this is a SUbjective conviction which cannot be im-
parted to others in the ab.lence of any describable and inimitable
peculiarities of the said handiwork. I have seen an imitation signature
acknowledged by a person who believed he had written it in that place,
but who had not really done so.
I have discussed possible explanations of Mr. Wedgwood's experi-
ments thus in detail because, unsatisfactory as it is, it seems to be the
nearest approximation we have to a successful experiment of the kind
required. But if I am asked what I really think, I should say that it is
• Mr. Wedgwood's account in the June Journal rather suggests that. he
added the gummed paper at Mr. Eglinton'B. But from his later statements I
think he did it before he went to the seance, though he has not stated explicitly
when and where it was done.
Digitized by Google
Dec.,I886.] Journal of Society for P8ychical R&.enrclt. 485
waste of time to criticise experiments recorded 80 long after the event.
The probability is verygreat that essential facts have been forgotten, and
it is more probable that the clue to the true explan!l.tion has thus been
for ever lost than that anyone explanation now suggested is the true
one.
In conclusion, I will add a few words about a phrase at the begin-
ning of Mr. Wedgwood's article. He implies that a man who goes to
see a medium "with every expectation of being able to detect the
illusion" is more likely to succeed in doing so than others. Now it is
my belief that if a fraudulent medium would tell us what kind of people
it was most easy to convince, he would put, immediately after the
blindly credulous, those who are quite confident that if there be trickery
they are sure to detect it. Their confidence may arise from an under-
estimate of the skill of the performer and so lead to carelessness ; it
may arise from an over-estimate of their own skill; or it may merely
arise from an unwillingness to admit that even the best observers may
now and then be baffled by an unexpected combination of circum-
stances. In no case is complete confidence justified, and in no case does
it help the observer. And should a very confident witness cha.nce to
be baffled, he will be convinced; for he believes that he can see
through a.ny trick; he did not see through this; therefore this was not
IL trick ;-80 logical conclusion from a false premiss.
AN ACCOUNT OF AN OUTBREAK OF RELIGIOUS HALLU-
CINATION IN THE BAHMIAS, WEST INDIES,
WITH A BRIEF SKETCH OF SOME PHENOMENA CONNECTED THEREWITH.
[Further inquiries are being made concerning the occurrences described
in the following account, the first part of which we abridge. The writer, a
medical practitioner and clergyman, explains that "the black people of the
Bahatnall are all descendants of the negro slaves who were brought here from
the West Coast of Africa. They are of a very emotional and excitable
temperament. " They are deeply superstitious, the form of witchcraft known
as Obeah being very prevalent. "Notwithstanding this, the people are
shrewd in business matters and able to trade to their own advantage." The
majority of the people on San Salvador belong to the Baptist Society. The
people are outwardly religious, keeping Sunday strictly, &c., but "religion
apparently gives them no strength of character." " They firmly believe in
ghosts, fairies, demons," &c.]
Last year, in the spring, we were continually hearing reports of the
remarkable doings of a young woman who was in the habit of preaching in
the chapels. Report brought the news that Ihe had visions, and was able to
gitized by (.oogI
486 Journal of 8oci~ty for Psychical Research. [Dec.,1886.
run along the tops of high walls wit~ her eY611 c1oaed. and climb trees, aittiDg
on alender branchea without falling. This apirit BOOn affected a few othergirla,
and in a very short time a band of them formed themaelvee into aaect, and pro-
ceeded to make converts. Some little time after this I paid a visit to the place
where all the excitement W&8, and I made it a ma~ter of duty to be preeent
at one of their meetiugB. The meeting W&8 held in a amall room. .W
around the aidea the people who had come to Bee and hear were aeated. In
the centre atood six girls, walking up and down, keeping time to a alOll'
monotonic chant, aung by the people aaaembled. This chant gradually in-
creaaed in rapidity, and &8 it increaaed the girls kept time in their tramping
or marching backwarda and forwards, clapping their handa, barking like
dogs, and awaying their bodies about. The glare in their eyes 11'&8 IIOme-
thing horrible to look at. Suddenly one girl would give a ahriek, and fall
down in a convulsive fit, BOOn to be followed by the rest, and by any of the
sightseers who were wrought up and affected by the aight. The noise of
kicking, ahouting, shrieking, and groaning that followed is perfectly in-
describable. At first I attempted to bring the girls to by means of restoratives,
but the people were 80 excited that they made a show of vi{llence at my
interference with the " outpouring of the Spirit," &8 they said.
For nearly an hour these girls would lie and kick until quite exhauated.
Then they would get up and recount what they had seen whilst under the
" aftIatua." Graphic deacrlptiona of hell were given, and Darnell of people
who were there, and who were going. In addition to this, lOme of them
would mention events that were then occurring lOme 10, 20, and 30 miles
away. Subsequent investigation proved that what they had seen ....
correct. I give one inatance that I vouch for. One girl said ahe 8&11' a
certain elder of a chapel 18 miles away (ahe 11'&8 personally unacquainted
with him) engaged in ainful practices (giving details) in secret. Upon
inquiry it 11'&8 found correct, the man being too frightened to conceal his Bin.
These attacks apread like wildfire through the whole ialand. Villagea at
distances of 10,15, and 30 miles from each other were affected aimultaneoualy.
though it is almost certain they had no communication ,with each other.
Girls at work in fielda would be seized auddenly, and had to be carried home.
'l'he general desire of all who were attacked 11'&8 to be together in community.
Parents who had lOme concern about their daughters endeavoured to keep
them at home. And this fact brought out another remarkable phenomenon.
When a meeting (for shouting and excitement) commenced, girIa who Weft
subject to fits, though far removed from the Bight and BOund of the meetings,
would be acted upon like a galvanic battery. I have aat in a house in attend·
ance upon a patient when auddenly she would begin to twitch and shake,
and finally auccumb to a fit. I found out that at the precise moment ahe
11'&8 aeized, other girls in the meeting had been taken too. This waa a remark-
able thing and acared the people conaiderably.
Two aggravated caaea came under my own observation. These were two
daughters of the magistrate. In this caae the girls were white, though
natives of the Ba.ham&8. Though they never went to nor aaw any meetings
of these fits and excitements, they were both attacked, and exhibited symp-
t.oma of a more violent and aggravated form than the black girls. The cue
Digitized by Google
Dec.,I886.] Jou1'7UJ,l of Society for Psychical iWlem·ch. 487
of the elder girl W88 peculiar. She would be seized with a fit, shrieking,
laughing, crying, and showing all the symptoms of hysteria. After the fit
W88 over she would fall into a kind of trance, 188ting from 12 to 17
hours at a stretch. When I first saw her (I had been called in after she had
been lying some eight hours in this manner, a.nd all efforts to arouse her had
failed), my first act W88 to feel her pulse. Immediately I touchld her she
awoke and smiled. She told me she had soon me coming, though I lived
about one-eighth of a mile distant from the place. Next day she fell into
the same kind of trance, and every effort W88 made by her relations to bring
her to-cold water douche, slapping, spirits of ammonia applied-all to no
purpose. They then sent for me, and upon my taking her hand she came to.
It now dawned upon me that I had some in1l.uence over her, so I told her that
ahe W88 not to have the fit for two days, then for four days. and so gradually
I got her round, the fits only coming at intervala. She h88 thoroughly
recovered, though she h88 been quite different in her habits and manners
since.
In the case of her sister, younger than herself, most curious phenomena
were exhibited. She had most violent fits, taking four and five strong men
to keep her down ; she would bite at people, and tear her clothes to rags, and
the sight of myself aggravated her to a painful degree. They would not let
her know I had been sent for, yet 88 soon 88 I left my house for the purpose
of seeing her she would callout (in her fit) that I W88 then starting from my
house, and beg them to keep me away. She could not see me, yet she W88
always correct in telling them of my whereabouts. When she woke
up from her trance after the fit (in her case the trance luted only
for an hour or so), she would tell her fa.ther of things she had seen done.
Upon inquiry we always found she W88 correct. When she W88 well
enough she W88 sent away to another island for a change. Whilst there she
told her friends of things which were being done at San Salvador (50 miles of
ocean separating the two islands). In these things also she W88 correct.
Once, acting upon information given by her in these trances, her father un-
m88ked a great evil existing at his very door; he knew nothing of it, but the
girl, 50 miles away, saw it, and gave details, and these corresponded with
Bubeequent discoveries.
But all this undoubtedly affected the girl's brain, and for two months she
lost the use of her limbs. She is now gradually recovering, but her power
of seeing things, or clairvoyance, h88 quite gOl1e.
I have set down these few items just 88 they occurred. I have no
explanation to offer, for I do not profess to understand the Spiritualistic aide
of the matter. The physical side of the matter W88 doubtle88 a bad attack of
hysteria, very similar, I should. imagine, to that which broke out in the
middle ages amongst the nuns.
The magist~te and his family have now left the island, and I am the only
white person here. We have now nothing of the epide~ic.
* * * * * *
Since writing the foregoing the following interesting fact occurred to
myself 188t month, June, 1886.
A man came to me for medicine. Upon sounding him, the stethescope
488 Jmwlu,l of Society for PS-YCILWal Research. [Dec.. 1886.
revealed the fact that he W88 suffering from heart-diBeMe. I warned him not
to exert himself by hard work in the fields, and gave him two pilla to take.
telling him to come next morning when I would commence to treat him. Be
went straight from me to the fields, and two hours afterwards I heard that
he WM picked up dead! I W88 considerably concerned, and in the evening the
local magistrate came to me requesting I would attend the inquest to be held
at 7 a.m. next morning. That evening I went to bed feeling very uncomfort-
able, M I felt I ought to have told him the critical state he W88 in. I fell
into a troubled sleep, and dreanlt I WM already at the inquest. I I18.W the
body lying on the Hoor, and the magistrate directed someone to remove the
shirt from the body for me to examine him. As they were taking offthe shirt
I thought the man arose and ran to me, and put his arms round my neck. I
WM 80 Mtonished at this that I awoke. When awake I felt more eaay in my
mind, having a conviction (why, I don't know) that the man WM not dead.
This WM 11 p.m.
I WM up at 5 a.m., getting ready to go to the inquest. Already I found
a man at the door who gave me the information that the man WM not dead.
The custom is to hold wakes, and it appears that whilat they were lIinging
around the body,he suddenly aat up, to the people's dismay and fright. They
rapidly cleared out, being, as I have already stated, 80 superstitious. I I18.W the
man, and IIoIIked him if when he awoke he thought of me. He aaid Yea; the
first thing he did when he awoke was to remember my worda about taking the
pills. As near as I can get it, the time W88 11 p.m., the exa.ot time I dreamt
that he was alive.
This is my own experience. and I offer for explanation the fact of my
dream corresponding 80 precisely to the event, which happened two and
a-half miles from where I was sleeping.
F. BARROW MATTJlBW8.
San Salvador, Babamu, West Indies.
July 6th, 1886.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the EdiWl" of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RRSEARCH.
Sm.-Permit me in \"ery few worda to &tate that I have resigned my
membership of the Society for Psychical Research, with the offices which I
have the honour to hold as Vice-President and Member of Council.
I have conceived that M a representative SpiritualiBt I could not do other-
wise, considering, M I do, that the evidence for phenomena of the genuine
character of which I and many others have aatisfied ourselves beyond doubt,
is not being properly entertained or fairly treated by the Society for Payclucal
Research.
I believe it is not the practice of the Society to announce the namell of
those who retire from its ranks, and I therefore venture to aSk permission to
make this statement myself.-I am, &c., '
W. STAINTON MosBS,
Late Vice-president and Member of Council, S.P.R.
21, Birchington-road, London, N.W.
November 18th.
Digitized by Google
