{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tony_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Tony P NDE 4117","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tony P NDE 4117  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tony P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1985 Tony P NDE 4117  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					While I was at work. I was feeling nauseous, dizzy, a bitter taste in my mouth and was projectile vomiting; and then everything went black. I found myself in a tunnel illuminated by a faint, foggy light. As I went through it, I found myself at a fork in the tunnel where it split in two. I could make out a light at the very end of one of the tunnels; so that's the one I took. As I went along, I came across an identical branching of the tunnel. Not knowing where I'd come from, but being certain I'd already been there, I decided to walk straight ahead without ever looking back, counting the tunnel branches as I went along.

Then, there was nothing. The atmosphere was marvelous. As I was walking along, the way became lighter. No anxiety, just an overwhelming feeling of well-being. Going forward I had to slow down because I felt such a lightness that I was convinced, I could fly and leave the ground.

Having counted four hundred and fifty branches and tunnels, I found myself outdoors in a forest of vibrant colors, of fluorescent green, with a colossal tree in the center. In staring at it and its thin blanket of snow, I felt every one of my cells invaded by an energy and a sense of security I'd never felt before. A very deep voice penetrated me and made my entire being vibrate. 'It isn't time.' Everything moved in synchronicity with my steps. At this point, my entire life passed before me, but only the wayward moments and I was tormented by it.

I begged for help with all my heart and all my strength. I opened my tear-filled eyes and stared at the door in the room where I was, seeing nothing else. Two hours later, the door opened.

It was a neurosurgeon from Los Angeles who was in Rome for a conference on a new embolization technique.

He agreed to operate on me, which required only local anesthesia to the groin. First there were fifteen days of coma (nearly beyond, at the last stage before brain death with a total absence of reflexes) then fifty more days in a coma of a slightly less serious stage. Finally, the awakening with the arrival of the neurosurgeon who used a coaxial catheter of his invention to remove the little platinum spirals inside the aneurysm they were blocking. Then seven days of convalescence and I was out.

Did I dream it all? Were the tunnels a hidden memory of birth? Were these things the fruit of my imagination, or of dreams? Well! An unconscious, drugged woman who commits offences falls into a two-month long coma, fifteen days of which a deep coma, sees unknown things, opens her eyes, heals and recovers, has two daughters, passes university exams and becomes a telecommunications engineer, becomes honest and enjoys every moment of life, as cruel and difficult as it can be at times. But it's a pure marvel! Could a simple thought or human imagination be capable of transforming all this? Impossible. Even with all the rationality possible - God is the greatest.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  07-09/1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident    Other 'Rottura di aneurisma cerebrale, emorragia subaracnoidea, III grado scala del coma:Profondo.'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   A deep an extreme sensitivity resulted in an awakening of all my senses and the ensuing sensations.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Sixty-five days.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Of space but not of time, which doesn't exist.  There was neither the past, nor the present nor the future. Everything was synchronized.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    All the senses were extremely amplified, dilated.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I had the impression of extreme well-being, lightness.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A faint light in the depths of the darkness in one of the two tunnels and a very bright light at the exit of the tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Amazing calm, certainty, confidence and profound well-being.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw all the offensive behavior of my life and only that.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I could answer yes but not for visions of the future in the sense that you mean it. On the other hand, extremely sensitive as I became, I notice the slightest nuance and my brain automatically figures out the most probable future outcome. Nothing more.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Before I was an atheist, insensitive, selfish. After seeing and undergoing a test, I see every day, even in the small things, the design of the Creator and I Love Him and seek to follow his teachings, always based on Love.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Before I was an atheist, insensitive, selfish. After seeing and undergoing a test, I see every day, even in the small things, the design of the Creator and I Love Him and seek to follow his teachings, always based on Love.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Certainly. Now being another person, I make better choices about those around me and unless I'm compelled to by some imperious priority, I don't accept compromises.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     No other gifts other than the ability (sometimes painful) to imagine the future accurately.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience, in particular the understanding, for the first time, of true Love, Faith and Power. Not to mention the unwarranted concession to a great sinner, of a second chance at salvation.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    It is possible to discuss it with someone who's been through a similar experience, otherwise the words come but not the ability to communicate the sensations and their true significance.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was undoubtedly real. I examined the facts and the way they changed my life by writing notes. I waited three years before starting again. Then six years, then at the tenth, twelfth and fifteenth anniversaries. All the notes I wrote until the fifteenth year are perfectly identical.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       In reviewing this experience, I'm overcome, despite it all, by a certain nostalgia.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       A question could be asked on the sensations felt and lived, without referring too much to rationality.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tony_p_nde.html