{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tony_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Tony M Probable NDE 5075","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tony M Probable NDE 5075  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tony M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2630 Tony M Probable NDE 5075  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The first instant (time did not exist from this point, so it may be hard to describe what happened), I fell into a deep, dark pit that seemed infinite in size. I was perplexed when this happened, and looked around to try to find out where I was. As I looked down, I couldn't see my body anymore. I was simply a form of consciousness with my ego intact. I did not have to breathe, nor did I have any difficulty thinking, as though I was experiencing some sort of 'super consciousness'. I eventually landed with a thud, which caused an excruciating pain to pass through my body. This void was the darkest black that I have ever seen in my life. It's as if there was no light whatsoever in this dimension. Even if a light were to shine in this void, the darkness would have completely devoured it. 

I could not see anything, but the sounds that I heard were absolutely horrendous. I could hear what seemed like trillions of people screaming and crying in pain. Even though there were trillions of voices, I could distinguish all of the voices separately in some sort of superimposed, horrendous screech. I wasn't scared, I was absolutely livid. I knew that this was where my fate rested, in this deep dark pit.

Suddenly, in the twinkling of an eye, 150 foot flames manifested all around me. This roaring inferno seemed to be a million times hotter and more intense than the sun. The colors were unlike any I've ever seen in my lifetime. The reds, oranges, yellows and other indescribable colors were so intense that I had trouble recognizing. I tried frantically to escape this fiery pit, but each time I tried to climb the wall, I slipped and landed back at the bottom of the pit. It was as if the 'walls' (boundaries more so than walls, very difficult to explain) were made of some sort of supernatural ice with no friction whatsoever. 

Surprisingly, I did not feel the flames of this hellish pit, but was still horrified as I could hear the many screams of the innumerable souls condemned to this seemingly eternal fate. I could see nothing but flames surrounding me. I cried out in horror as the scene switched to a disturbingly hideous and disgusting demon who towered over me, quite similar to a skyscraper next to a human being. I got the impression that this being was made out of pure hate and terror. It struck a terror so deep within me, that I still find it absolutely impossible to describe fifteen years later. It seemed like this being was about to propel my very soul in to oblivion. Even though I realized that I was dead, I felt as though this being could destroy me yet again in a horrendously tragic way, forever.

After this, I ended up in the hospital feeling totally relieved and inspired to change my life for the better. I told my nurse about the incident and her eyes widened. She was in complete disbelief, and the look on her face told me that perhaps she had heard this kind of story before.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'November 7, 1996'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I went under the knife for surgery on my bowel. I was having problems with my bowel, so the surgeons decided to remove one part of the organ. The surgeons sewed up the incision point, and when I awoke they said I that the operation was a complete success. They wanted to keep me in the hospital for seventy-two hours to assess my condition before releasing me, but I started to feel a sharp pain in the area where my bowel is. I remember telling the nurse this, and then everything faded to black. The last thing I remember was hearing the alarm in my room. At this point, according to the doctors, I slipped into a deep coma due to internal bleeding. The doctors told my sister that I was not going to make it.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I first landed in the pit, hearing the countless, disturbing high-pitched screams and cries for help.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No sense of time, altered and indescribable laws of physics in the 'space' that I found myself trapped in.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors that I had experienced were so vivid, so sharp, so colorful that I was in absolute awe despite being trapped in a hellish void.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear trillions and trillions of other beings screaming their heads off, but each voice was heard separately in a superimposed fashion.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was more like a very dark cave, which lead to my rapid descent into the pit.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw a demon made of terror, and heard many cries of condemned souls. I recognized many screams in the fire, although I'm not sure how or why. I did not recognize the demon, although he was similar to a bear. I am now absolutely horrified of bears and refuse to go camping anywhere. No knowledge was communicated, except for the fact that the burning people were definitely horrified and in extreme pain.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The flames emitted a strange light, not dissimilar to the light the sun gives off at close range.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Indescribable fear, terror, lividness, anxiety, anxiousness, curiosity.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Anglican Christianity

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Stronger belief in the God of the universe. I try to pray daily, and go to church as often as possible. I tithe much more frequently, and share my experience with others wherever I see fit to do so.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Anglican Christianity

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Stronger belief in the God of the universe. I try to pray daily, and go to church as often as possible. I tithe much more frequently, and share my experience with others wherever I see fit to do so.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Closer to my kids.  I realize the importance of relationships and the unimportance of material values. Much kinder to people, and as a result I have more friends.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   This NDE was in another dimension where time ceased to exist.  Space seemed to follow some sort of supernatural law of physics. Even this sentence is peanuts compared to what the experience was actually like. Although I remember the experience like it happened yesterday, I am still unable to find the words to accurately describe it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Increased intuition. I know when people are lying to me, and I have increased sensitivity to people's emotions.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Finding myself in a huge, raging inferno left me in disbelief. It has lead me to ponder my existence and the truth about reality. This has become the reason for my lifestyle change.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately after the experience. Total shock and disbelief. Unsure how the NDE influenced the nurse/doctors.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Experience was the most real experience I have ever witnessed. Everything about it was totally clear, real and astonishingly life like. Definitely not a dream or hallucination.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       My advice to you if you're reading this is to take it seriously. This experience, no matter how seemingly absurd or hallucinatory, was absolutely real to me. It felt more real than waking reality. Although it has changed my life for the better, I don't wish this near death experience on anyone. Please read the stories on this website, and learn from the mistakes of others. To the webmaster: Thank you for creating this great website! NDERF has opened up my mind to the seemingly infinite possibilities of God and creation. I look forward to sharing this site with friends and family.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Perhaps you could add a section where the survey asks what type of philosophies or ideologies we have read about/heard of prior to the experience.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tony_m_probable_nde.html