{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tracey_j_dog_nde.html","mytitle":"Tracey J Possible Pet Dog NDE 31920","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tracey J Possible Pet Dog NDE 31920  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tracey J Possible Pet Dog NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2696 Tracey J Possible Pet Dog NDE 31920  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In April 2005 my father was seventy years old and suffering from end stage cancer.  He passed out quite suddenly in his back yard while attempting to do some spring yard work.  He was rushed to the hospital unconscious and we learned that he had developed sepsis (toxic shock) from an advanced case of pneumonia.  He had shown no signs of pneumonia and we had no idea he had it.   My father went into a coma on April 9, 2005.  We were told that he almost certainly would not survive.  Pope John Paul II had just died a few weeks earlier from sepsis, so the term was very familiar in the media and we truly felt that my father was going to pass.  We spent our days with him in ICU and prayed for him. 

Ten days later, at Easter time, my father woke up and made some rudimentary sounds, which were funny because he sounded like a cow ‘moo-ing’.  He couldn't speak for about twenty-four hours but we were still overjoyed.  When he began to speak, he wanted to know who drove him back from Bronte.   He said that he had been in Bronte, a small town about twenty minutes away from the hospital, where his father had lived as a boy.  My dad was adamant that he had flown to Bronte and visited all of his dad's boyhood ‘places’, with his father at his side.  He said they spent a lot of time playing with his father's childhood dog in Bronte.  My dad remembered going into the hospital but that his father had picked him up for the trip to Bronte because he was having trouble falling asleep on his first night in ICU (This doesn't make sense because my father was comatose the whole time in ICU).    My dad was very upset that he was back in the hospital upon waking and he couldn't understand why we were all so happy to see him there in the bed. 

For this reason, I always wonder what really happened for my father during the comatose time.  At the time, I just assumed he was hallucinating during the coma and that his mind wandered.  Now I have read more about NDE and I wonder if this is what happened to him.  For months afterward, he still believed that he really had travelled to Bronte, and he did not believe for a moment that he was in the hospital for that entire duration. 

My father lived until Christmas Eve.  He passed away December 24, 2005.  The last words I said to him were ‘Fly away home’. 

It is interesting that his passing is associated with Christmas (Jesus) and his ‘resurrection’ is tied to Easter.  Easter is now my favorite holiday because I associate it with rebirth, and my father coming back from his coma. 

Fast forward to my ADC:  

It is now 2011.  I have a six month old puppy who, of course, has never met my father.  The puppy was neutered last week and it developed complications during the surgery.  It flat lined momentarily but was revived.  I recently brought him home wearing the ‘cone’ and I am not supposed to give him very much activity because of his stitches and the surgery ordeal.  The day I brought him home, he was very sluggish and zonked out from all the medication.  He started whining and looking at a drawer where I keep his brush.  I opened the drawer to brush him.  In the drawer there was a photo of my dad, upside down, which I stuck in the drawer a couple of days ago planning to put in an album one day.  The dog usually goes crazy for his brush.  He sniffed around in the drawer, his tail wagged like crazy, and then he pulled out the photo very carefully and gingerly carried it in his mouth.  He put it in his crate.

He has never carried paper before without chewing it apart (he absolutely loves eating paper).  This was so odd.  He can't get in the crate because his cone is too large but he set the photo in the crate on his pillow, just inside the door, then went to sleep on the floor. 

Today is Easter and of course, I always think of my dad waking from the coma.  I wanted to go see him at the cemetery but I didn't want to leave the dog home alone with his cone on, and he is still recovering from the near-death surgical experience.  I decided to put the dog in his brand new car harness and just keep him in the car at the cemetery, so I took him with me.  The parking area is a good ten minute walk from where my father is.  I decided to let the dog out just for a moment to relieve himself on the side of the street at the entrance to the cemetery, and then leave him in the car because he was so groggy anyway.  He jumped down from the car and absolutely ran off.  I was terrified because of the local traffic and a deep ravine nearby.  I couldn't see which way he went and I was sure that he went into the ravine.  I knew the steep climb and cold Canadian water would kill him.  I looked for my dog for close to an hour, even asking other people in the cemetery if they had seen him.  I was beside myself in tears when I decided it was getting dark and I should go get my children to help me look.  On the way out of the cemetery, I decided to hike quickly to my father's grave and ask him for help finding our pup.  I could not believe my eyes that the puppy was laying down panting on my dad's grave, with a giant puppy grin and much satisfaction.   He knew that was where my dad was even though he had never met my dad or gone to that cemetery. 

I believe that during my dog's ‘flat line’ moments in surgery, he must have seen my father.  

Nothing else explains him putting dad's picture in the crate, or rushing off to dad's grave when he had no way of understanding the significance. 

I just put it all together now, realizing that dad had played with his father's dog during his own near death moment, in his coma.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female


    NDE Elements:

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Moderate sadness and/or grief feelings

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Fully alert

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future       

   After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definately not real

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tracey_j_dog_nde.html