{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tracy_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Tracy D NDE 5352","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tracy D NDE 5352  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tracy D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2816 Tracy D NDE 5352  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I experienced an NDE in February 2009. Let me start by informing you that I am diabetic, I have psoriasis, and my overall general health is a bit below par. My fault mostly, as I am not diligently monitoring blood sugar levels or going to the doctor.

I was visiting my mother who had just come out of hip surgery when I began feeling sharp pangs in my abdominal area/lower back region. The pains became severe so I left the hospital for my mother’s house where I was staying. By the time I arrived, the pangs were very intense and as a result, I called an ambulance. On arrival at the hospital, I had become unconscious, my kidneys then shut down and I went into cardiac arrest… 

I found myself sitting 'Indian style' at the bottom of a beautiful tropical lagoon. The water was a beautiful, crystal clear turquoise, type of color. The sand was pure and bright white, and the visibility seemed infinite. There were numerous tropical fish swimming all around that were so vivid in color it seemed as if they were plugged into an electrical outlet and covered in neon lights (difficult to actually describe). I had never seen anything like this before. There was no plant life or coral, rocks or reefs, just white sand, beautiful water, the fish and myself. I remember thinking ‘Well this is kind of weird’ and ‘How am I breathing underwater on my own?’ also, ‘Where am I, and how did I get here?’ Then something above caught my eye. I looked up and could see the surface of the water about 10 feet above me, and beyond that, a ball of light that was very bright and descending in my direction. I watched, and as it broke the water’s surface, it dispersed and engulfed the lagoon and beyond. 

Thinking it was blinding (but not sure if that was an instinctive reaction, or not, because I do not recall being blinded or even sensitive to any of the brightness during the entire experience) I looked downward at the ocean floor. Suddenly a wooden post impaled itself into the sand about 3 or 4 feet away at somewhat of an angle (a post similar, I am guessing, to the type JESUS may have been crucified upon). However, there was no cross section, just a post. I began to look up and as I did, I saw a pair of feet in sandals and a pair of incredibly pure, bright white pants (also appearing to be neon for lack of a more accurate description). As I continued further upward, I was totally amazed to find that it was my deceased father who had passed two years earlier. He had been diagnosed with a golf ball size brain tumor in the center of his brainstem that was inoperable. Two weeks after the diagnosis it began to bleed and he fell whilst walking out of a restaurant, and was transported via ambulance to the nearest hospital. 

There were no ‘Living Will’ or ‘Do Not Resuscitate’ instructions so we did not know how to proceed. All we knew was that our father was a good man, and lived an exceptional life. He had treated us, and those around him, well, and did not deserve to suffer a prolonged life as a vegetable, nor would he want to. We chose intravenous pain relief and oxygen, with no feeding tube, to make him pain free and as comfortable as possible on his way out. Three different opinions were all describing the same ending: he would not live through surgery, and if by some miracle he did, he would be a vegetable. He passed away three days later somewhat peacefully. His heart just stopped. Racing faster in the end in an effort to increase oxygen levels it just got tired and quit. It was not an easy choice for us.

When I realized it was my father, I realized that I had left life as I knew it, and somehow (I do not recall the journey) had come to this place of beauty and total tranquility. I don't know if it has anything to do with it or not, but we had buried my father at sea, having spread his ashes out of Newport Beach. My first reaction was to say ‘WE DIDN’T KNOW WHAT TO DO DAD … I’M SORRY’. He just smiled down at me and said ‘IT’S OK SON YOU DID JUST FINE. I AM IN A GOOD PLACE. IT’S WONDERFUL BEYOND YOUR IMAGINATION. IT WAS MY TIME’. He looked so perfect, and so at peace. I can't really describe how awesome, calm, and perfect he looked. When he passed, he was 73 years old and all grey beard and moustache. As he appeared before me, he was much younger: in his prime with thick, wavy, bright deep red hair, as he had when he was younger, only much more vivid and intense. Any imperfection or flaw he had was sculptured, chiseled away, to a smooth perfection. HE LOOKED PERFECT, BEAUTIFUL AND CONSUMED WITH PEACE AND JOY AND OVERFLOWING WITH UNDERSTANDING AND LOVE (I could go on and on). We visited for what seemed like hours but afterwards I discovered I had only been without a heartbeat for 1 min and 14 seconds. WE LAUGHED AND HUGGED AND CRIED, AND EVERYTHING WORKED (no freezing of limbs, no inability to move) and then he hopped down off his post onto the ocean floor and started to walk away. I jumped up and said ‘DAD, HEY… WAIT A MINUTE’ and began to follow him and it was at that moment he stopped, turned around, smiled this HUGE HEARTWARMING AND INDESCRIBABLE SMILE and said ‘NO SON, YOU’VE GOTTA GO BACK. THEY’RE FIXING YOU. IT’S NOT YOUR TIME’. 

Then he reached out and touched my shoulder and I don't know how to describe what it felt like, but I believe upon him touching me he placed my life back in me, and I woke up in the hospital back to life as I knew it. 

I had suffered a blocked intestine, blood poisoning, kidney failure, and a cardiac arrest, which took me to my NDE. When I awoke, I aspirated in my lungs and passed back out. I woke up three days later with tubes coming out of everywhere, going who knew where, but I would do it all over again, and again, just to see my POP and know that something absolutely incredible awaits us upon our departure from this human life. I don't know exactly what it looks like but I know this - WHEREVER MY FATHER WENT IS ONE AWESOME AND WONDERFUL PLACE BECAUSE HE NEVER LOOKED SO GOOD, AND NEVER LOOKED SO AT PEACE AND SO COMPLETE.  

I really cannot find the right words to do justice in relating this whole experience. I believe without doubt IT WAS REAL, LIKE NOTHING I HAD EVER EXPERIENCED BEFORE, NOT EVEN CLOSE. I don't think I gained any special powers nor do I have any more answers to the mysteries of the world. I do not know the future except that death is not an end, but a new and bountiful beginning.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  3/1/2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Other cardiac arrest due to complete kidney failure caused from intestinal blockage . High level of toxicity from bowels. kidneys overworked trying to filter toxins and shut down leading to cardiac arrest. Upon resuscitation I aspirated in my lungs......  Cardiac arrest.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   See narrative above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       About a quarter of the way in. I was confused at the start, thinking 'This is weird', 'What is this all about?' and 'What is happening?' I was never fearful or scared, but it just took a few moments to figure out what I was experiencing.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     But not until afterwards when i found out my NDE here only lasted one minute and 14 seconds.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     See narrative above.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    See narrative above.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       All good emotions i.e. peace, love, joy, and awe of how beautiful and remarkable the surroundings and whole experience was.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Christian / born again early nineties

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     More spiritual for certain. Not sure about more religious, but definitely life changing.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   same with increased spirituality/not necessarily more religious/ increased personal relationship with GOD/ JESUS / THE WORLD etc...

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     More spiritual for certain. Not sure about more religious, but definitely life changing.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That GOD IS MY FATHER AND THAT HE IS AWESOME, AND LOVES US UNCONDITIONALLY.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Trying to describe the colors: pure and bright like I had never previously experienced, 'vivid' 'beautiful' 'pure' 'bold' and 'calming' are understatements. I have yet likened a description to lend justice to the meaning. AWESOME.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        See narrative above regarding meeting my father.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Whenever an opportunity presents itself that will not cause people to turn from God thinking it was not real, or lacking in credibility.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tracy_d_nde.html