{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tony_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Tony W NDE 9422","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tony W NDE 9422  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tony W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5055 Tony W NDE 9422  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    This happened in either 1994 or 1995.  I worked the night shift; my shift was 11:00 p.m. to either 7:00 or 7:30 a.m. 

  This incident happened around 27 years ago when I was 22 years old.  Once in a while, I would hang out with friends after work and party. A co-worker who was also one of my high school friends, came by my home.  We were drinking beer, smoking weed and doing 'whippets' which was basically just inhaling nitrous oxide gas. It is possible we were doing cocaine or crystal meth that morning too along with everything else. But my memory is foggy when it comes to that. I feel what caused me to have the NDE was the nitrous oxide gas. Nitrous oxide was nothing new to me or my friends.
  
  I passed out as usual but I came up out of my body. I slowly started to float up into the corner of the room. I saw a huge bright, white-light off into the distance. It was on the side  as I was going up into the corner of the room. I passed what I would guess would be Jesus or GOD. I'm unsure who it actually was but he had long greyish-white hair and a long beard. It would be exactly what I would expect an older Jesus to look like if I was having someone draw a picture. As I passed in front of him, I was up there on this cloud with him looking down on my body. I could see everything in the room and I could also see the white light in the distance. 

  My body was just lying there motionless as I saw my co-worker sitting in the chair partying. The one thing that stands out the most at this point  is the feelings I had while I was up on that cloud looking down at my body. I wasn't scared or  in pain, but felt the exact opposite. I felt a feeling of love that was thousands of times more powerful than any love I have ever felt.  It's impossible to describe in words. Everything was very peaceful.  I do not remember hearing any noises at all. There was just a feeling love and peace. As I am looking down on my body, a question came to my mind. There were no words spoken; yet, I was asked if I wanted to stay up here or go back down. Everything went  fast after that because as soon as I made a choice to go back down, I headed back down.  I  went into what I  can best describe as a pitch-black tunnel or cone that started out big. As I  got into the tunnel,  I soon reached the end, which was pinhole sized. I heard this loud pop sound, which was the time I popped back into my body.  

I sat up and immediately asked my friend how long I passed out.  He told me, 'Not that long.' It felt to me like I was up there for a little bit experiencing all of that. 

This was 27 years ago and I never forget it. This experience changed me.  From that point on, I became spiritual as I know we are all being watched by our creator above.  All our thoughts and intentions are known.  So, from that point on, I slowly but surely got away from all the drugs I was doing and distanced myself from the negative energies around me. I'm not perfect but I try to have the best intentions and be truthful and honest as best I can about everything. Since this NDE, I feel it has opened me up to experiences that maybe I wouldn't have had if I didn't have that NDE that day.  For example, when I was up in the corner of the room and we communicated through telepathy, I feel it has opened up some extra senses in me that come and go once in a while.  It is like I will get visions and or thoughts in my mind of things that come true either immediately or later in the day. I saw a UFO a year or 2 after this incident.  A couple years ago, my wife and I saw some orbs in the yard. I have had weird things happen with sleep paralysis before with a shadowy figure.  I feel that I am lucky to experience a lot of things that a lot of people are skeptical of or have never experienced before. I'm the type of guy that also doesn't like to believe in things unless I've actually experienced them myself. Now, I can 10000% guarantee you that the stories you hear of the white swirling light, floating up into the corner of the room, and using telepathy is all real when it comes to NDE since I have experienced all of these things.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1995  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         Partying and inhaling Nitrous Oxide  Other: I was fine prior to the time of my experience  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Well, I saw everything that was going on in the living room at the same time I was apart from my physical body. I floated up into the corner of the room.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Everything was heightened, the colors were more vivid, the feeling of love was so overwhelming and heightened that words could never explain it. Until that time, I've never experienced telepathy or floated in the air so my average everyday consciousness seemed bland and average compared to my experience.  
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I realized I was out of my body is when it started but when we communicated through telepathy, that would be the peak level of consciousness.  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual.     Time just went faster the moment I went into that black tunnel and then when I went back into my body. Up until then I would say timed seemed somewhat normal.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I feel my vision was the same as it was prior to the experience. Everything was clear; not blurry or anything like that.  
  
Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I feel like my hearing was the same prior to the experience and during the experience.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

  Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     the only tunnel I experienced was the pitch black tunnel.  Then I was popping back into my body.  
  
Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   a very large, bright white off in the distance  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.      I was floating on a cloud in the corner of the room with a being who used telepathy with me while a swirling white light was in the background. The only somewhat earthly thing was me looking down into the living room where my body was.  
  
What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, peace, calm  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic   I went to Sunday school a few times to hang out with friends but my family didn't go to church and I dont remember talking about religion growing up at home.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in an afterlife.  

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Ever since my NDE, I consider myself spiritual.  

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had no beliefs before my experience. But after my experience, I believe in an afterlife and I feel our souls live eternally once we leave this body.  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Yeah, bigtime, I believe in an afterlife and I do everything as if someone always knows my thoughts or intentions so I try my best to be as honest and truthful and helpful to everyone as I can.  

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The figure that was up on the cloud with me and the only "voice" I heard was in my mind when I was asked if I wanted to stay up there or go back down. It wasn't much of a "voice" I would say but more of a "message" coming into my mind  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I have always felt that the being up there with me on the cloud was either Jesus or God.  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     same as above, I didn't receive any "information" but just the experience and me being on the cloud with what I feel was Jesus or God made myself aware that there is existence of God or a supreme being. I wasn't told anything in regards to this but I had a feeling of this around me.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I didn't receive any "information" but just the experience made myself aware that there is existence after our earthly life.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I was surrounded by a massive amount of love that was nothing like I've ever experienced ever. I was made very aware of the love around me.  

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     At times I will randomly get extrasensory perception, its nothing I can make happen but sometimes thoughts or images will show in my mind like a movie or picture and they come true. I have 100% experienced seeing a UFO right above me then it shot off into the night faster than anything I ever witnessed ever, this happened a few years after my NDE. A few years ago, for the first time, I looked into meditation and was experiencing with very loud frequencies while meditating with the sole purpose of trying to see if I could make contact with aliens, and then after my wife forced me to turn down the volume because she said the neighbors are going to think we are crazy, lol, some white orbs appeared in the back yard...she witnessed them and so did I and from that point on, I never experimented with that again. I just feel that I am more open to experiences now but none of these things I focus on or try to make happen when it comes to the extrasensory stuff, it just happens but if I make myself be aware more and pay attention more, I seem to notice things more.  
  
Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   it's just hard to put emphasis on things that happened to you that don't happen in your normal life and even if I did find the words, the words could never do justice to the actual experience as everything was heightened to levels nobody could even explain in words. The feeling of love I felt would be the hardest to express in words because it seems indescribable.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I remember my experience as if it happened yesterday and the only other thing I remember from that time is where I worked and where I lived only because it pertains to where I was living and working at the time of my experience.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Not sure how to classify any of it but I have messages that come to me in my mind sometimes about things that are currently happening, have happened or will happen. It was really cool at the beginning when it was happening but now although it is still cool, it's not like stuff I can share with people because when I do they are either in shock that I knew and start asking tons of questions or think Im crazy so I've learned to just keep that stuff to myself. I guess that's the coolest thing that has happened or gift I received since the experience.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire experience is significant to me and is something I will never forget and I feel lucky to have experienced it.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it immediately when it happened and I still share that experience with people as I just did a couple days ago actually. People's reactions are generally of amazement and "wow", some say it was just probably because of the drugs I was using that moment which I immediately disregard because I know what I experienced. Some have shown Happiness knowing there is an afterlife after this life.  

  Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I honestly don't know what I knew about NDE before this, I may have not known anything actually and even after it happened, I don't remember what I thought just happened, I may have classified it as an out of body experience if anything but really, I don't think any of that even registered with me in regards on trying to put it in a category of anything. Once years passed is when I think I actually got into trying to figure out what actually happened to me by researching.  
  
What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It has always been real to me from the minute I popped back into my body until now.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It will always be a real experience for me because I know what I experienced; nobody will ever change my mind of this.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

  Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No, I feel I'm covering it all in my description and these questions.  

     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tony_w_nde.html