{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tracy_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Tracy M NDE 4388","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tracy M NDE 4388  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tracy M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2179 Tracy M NDE 4388  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had finished telling the anesthesiologist to tell everyone that I loved them and that Al (my partner) would be a good dad. I was then put under.

I could see the room, the doctors and nurses, and I could feel their fear of losing me. I could tell the intern's anxiety and a few of the nurses' sadness. They barely believed I would live. I could sense others as well but was quickly swept to an opening. The best I know how to describe it is not so much a tunnel but a fuzzy opening, as though the pixels were less clear and darker. I felt pulled through it.

The place I was is a hill in Marysville where my grandmother used to pick sunflowers. The grass was so lush and so green. The air was so perfect, moving yet still. Colors had intensity I have never known. I could see and know all these things with my entire being. A dog's tail weaved through the tall grass. A beautiful fuzzy puppy wagged her tail at me. 

At first, I did not recognize her. I had never seen our dog as a puppy. I was so happy to see her. We had to put her down two weeks prior to my daughter's birth. She had injured her hip. We had given all the surgery we could to keep her, but it did not make her quality of life better - it had become much worse. We had her put down on my due date. Our hearts were so heavy with the loss of the dog that generously shared her life with us for 12 years. 

I followed the spirited dog as she meandered amongst the tall grass. There sat my grandmother looking over the hill, as though she had been waiting there for me. When I saw her I had never seen her so beautiful. The essence of her was so magnificent and everything around us whispered love, love, love. I sat with her and asked her questions. We spoke without words but with understanding. It was made clear I was there only for 'recess' (a term that had been used in my junior school years as a break before lunch). We looked from our beautiful lush hill. There was, however, a split from where the hill ended and the road began. I could see the town, the cars moving but everything was dull and black and white. Up the hill came my other grandmother, smiling with love in her heart, and then the sun began to go down. 'It's time. It's time to go' my first grandmother said. I did not want to leave. I pleaded 'I do not want to. I can't'. 'You must,' she said 'you have a child. You're not finished loving. You're not finished remembering. You're not finished knowing. GO.' The words were from everything that existed there and beyond that, maybe what perhaps could be called God.

Coming to was more painful than I can describe, as I remember and as it has been told to me. I was in the ICU for 2 days. I struggled with consciousness. I could these people - people that, when they discovered I was coming to this world and could see theirs, tried to give me messages. One woman wanted her daughter to forgive her - she was bitter. A sickly teenage boy needed to confess - he had taken his own life. It was too much. They were desperate and I was just trying to figure out where I was. Al said I kept asking where I was and what had happened 500 times repeatedly. He would say 'Tracy, it's alright, you're ok, you can wake up now'. They had to strap me down because I kept removing the oxygen. I wanted to get these stuck souls their messages out. At the time, I did not know they were spirits. I thought they were people - even a baby floated past..

They finally gave me a pen and I wrote pages and pages of gibberish. The ICU nurse finally went to get a nurse who had been known to see spirits herself. She soothed me with her words, 'They are spirits, just focus on getting better. It's ok, you have angels and they want you to come back. Ignore the others and focus on yourself'. With her help, I was able to awake.

My recovery took a while. I mourned, and still to some extent mourn, being on that hill, with all that love. I know I will never experience that again in this reality.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'may 20, 2009'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related. Childbirth  Severe blood loss. Collapse lungs.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My daughter was born May 19, 2009 via C-section. I bled internally with three platelets left in my body. I was told to make any last requests, as it was unclear if I could be saved.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was on the hill.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was known to me it was temporary, that I had been given this place where there was no time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see the very atoms of every blade of grass. I could smell their words, and every cell's whisper of love and peace was absorbed by the core of beingness.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A fuzzy, hazy opening.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My dog, who had passed two weeks prior, and my two grandmothers, both beautiful and in their prime.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I was light. Everything was light, except past the road. Not in a bad way, just in a different way.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The place I was, is a hill in Marysville B.C where my grandmother used to pick sun flowers. The grass was so lush and so green the air so perfect moving yet still...colors with intensity I have never known.I could see and know all these things with my entire being.The beauty is undescribeble.I wish I could take you there..!!

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       The utmost love - in fact 'love' is far too small of a description.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was so fast and with so little detail that I barely recognized it as my own, except I saw a t-shirt I was wearing that had bananas on it from when I was 10.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I would live. I would love. I would breastfeed my child, though I only got to do it once after that.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I just understood for the first time what the road was about. It was the boundary and I was not to cross it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   non-denominational

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     They are much deeper. I'm much more certain, and care so much less about the science or the fact seeking of say the Bible or Koran, or Kabala.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   definite faith in God. Teachings of Jesus

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     They are much deeper. I'm much more certain, and care so much less about the science or the fact seeking of say the Bible or Koran, or Kabala.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Love. Everything is about love - to know and to understand. That if it is not about this it just does not matter, and nothing could ever be as important as love.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I understand so much more. I appreciate others' experience and can love in spite of their choices. I see us all as one - one breathing organism, 'God'.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Words cannot describe!!

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Though I had some before. I had to really work at blocking some things, as it was really scaring people. I would know them. I mean REALLY know them - their past, present, future, their ego, and their thoughts. I advised a young doctor that being forthright about being gay would free him. I saw people's suffering, and for a while I saw spirits but would pretend not to see them so as not to be harassed.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it is significant. You're here to love. You're here to know. Do the work while you're here so you do not get stuck in hospital as a spirit seeking closure and light.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When I could talk I told everyone one hour after coming to. A few doctors wanted me get psychological help.   I told my best girlfriend, who is a personal trainer to the stars. I told her that nothing she was concerned about mattered, that there is no past and that love in all its expressions is all that matters, and that it was not in her life and that she was wasting time. She let go of her place in Beverly Hills, took a break from all her clients and moved back to Canada for five months.  I told my dad it was not his fault and that he did not deserve what they did to him as a boy. I told him to forgive for they know not what they do.  My partner realized to have faith and surrender, not to have begged God for my life.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Not really, it is not something I ever looked into. I did see a show once that showed that the brain did all this while it died and lost blood and oxygen.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because our dog, Shilo, was there as a puppy. I had never seen her as a puppy. In fact, I did not even think she would look like that but it was her. How could I have imagined that?

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     But I sometimes question. Doubt can seep in, and the harder route is to know it's true. Life as I lived it before with much of my ego in control is no longer a way I can live.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Never ever to that extent. I have been doing a hemi sync CD while meditating. It gives the feeling of weightlessness that is similar, but that is all.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tracy_m_nde.html