{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tonya_z_nde.html","mytitle":"Tonya Z NDE 160","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tonya Z NDE 160  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Tonya Z NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						601  Tonya Z NDE  160  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I was hit by a car on a pedestrian crossing. I came to the realization of what was happening once I saw my own body. I saw it from the viewpoint of the corner of the room, away from the accident site. I was unconscious at the time.


For the first few seconds of the NDE, I felt that I was accepted there. Warmth, immense love, and an incredible feeling of wisdom surrounded me. It felt like I had arrived home from somewhere. I felt that I was given an opportunity to stay in that space.


However, as soon as I realized what had happened, I panicked and allowed fear to pervade my whole soul. Amazingly with no body, I still had a voice. I shouted with such powerful force and in such terror ‘this is a mistake!’ (that, I remember vividly). It was at this point that I felt there was a distinctive repulsion of these fearful feelings within the contrasting wisdom that surrounded me. (Throughout this seemingly short experience, I feel that I had my back to something and was looking the whole time down at my body.)  I was not in harmony with the surroundings; perhaps I was immature. I felt that I was sent away. I feel that I did not choose to come back.


I regained consciousness as I was being carried out towards the ambulance. My feeling is that it was possible that my heart had stopped and that possibly the fright of seeing my own body may have started it again. I cannot verify this idea, as this was never monitored.


The experience was both one of a moment of true warmth, wisdom and happiness and, at the same time, one of emotional trauma for me

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1981

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Possibly the serious injuries from being hit by a car.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was looking down at my body from the vantage point of the corner in a doctor’s room. My body was being looked over by the ambulance personnel. It was lying on the doctor’s examination table. I was lying face up, although I only saw the torso and lower half of my body, as an ambulance man was obscuring the view of my upper body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Extremely alert and fully conscious of what was happening.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Not sure what ‘altered space’ refers to.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     However, I had the distinct feeling that there was something behind me, I never had time to turn around and look.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     I definitely felt their presence around me, it was powerful, but did not see them, as I was too occupied looking down at my body in shock.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   However, it could have possibly been behind me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I do not understand the question, sorry (dimensions?)

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      For the first few seconds I felt that I was accepted there. Warmth, immense love, and an incredible feeling of wisdom surrounded me. It felt like I had arrived home from somewhere. I felt that I was given an opportunity to stay in that space and it gave me an honest insight into my character. It was during this experience that I discovered the incredible fear in my soul. This being in too much contrast to the surroundings, I felt a distinctive repulsion of my fearful feelings by the surrounding energy at the time. I felt that in being sent away, I had failed myself. I think that if I had not been fearful, I actually would have wanted to stay there.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I understood from the experience, at that young age, that you take with you when you die the feelings which you have now, and I also felt at the time that we, alone, are the judge of ourselves, that life is what you make of it, and I understood the importance of one’s emotional state whilst you are alive.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     The boundary was for me, my own fear. To cross over was to accept and to be in harmony with this new environment.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I believe that through my fear, I was encouraged/sent back to my body.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   None   

What is your religion now?      None   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     A bigger picture. A total change of perspective on life, death and society. Ongoing work on my fear issue.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The knowledge of a bigger picture of life, the wisdom and warmth was the best. The fear I felt was the worst.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    The reactions were of genuine interest, but not influenced in any way, I think.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Thanks!!

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tonya_z_nde.html