{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tony_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Tony G NDE 4811","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tony G NDE 4811  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tony G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2442 Tony G NDE 4811  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was taken to the hospital after accidental mixing of alcohol with tablets. In the ambulance, I refused to lie down.  I was sitting next to the paramedic as we were travelling. I remember feeling faint and trying to reach his arm. I was taken to the hospital and whilst lying on the trolley, the person with me heard a mayday alert. 

I saw the medical team rush to me. They hurried me off to the resuscitation room. I believe it was at that time I was moving in a dark tunnel. I do not remember leaving my body but just seemed to be floating. I remember hearing a quiet rushing sound, as I progressed in the tunnel. I saw my paternal grandmother holding a little boy's hand that was standing next to her. I believe the little boy was my son who was born and lived only for two days but showed himself to me as about three years old (the age he would have been had he lived). They were standing still and I just saw a sideway profile of them. They did not acknowledge me, although I was trying to call my grandmother, they just ignored me and did not move. I did not have a body and can only explain I could see and hear but feel I was just an eye moving along. I did not see any light but there was what looked like a wall further on from my grandmother and son. I do not recall going back to my body.

I woke up two days later, and told people of seeing my grandmother and son straight away, even after more than thirty years the memory of this experience never fades.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1978

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    mixture alcohol and prescribed drug accidental overdose  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My heart had stopped and I had to be electrically resuscitated.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Hard to explain but it seems while in the tunnel out of my body time was nothing I was just in space.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Very quite relaxing rushing sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Dark tunnel.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my deceased grandmother and son, they ignored and did not acknowledge me.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear and excitement.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I always believed in God and religion, but since my experience I believe more in God, but not the religion.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I always believed in God and religion, but since my experience I believe more in God, but not the religion.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I seem to come across as cold and uncaring in lots of situations, it is not that I am, I just feel I can always see an answer to their problems and can handle most things with ease.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have experienced flashes, psychic abilities, as I have grown older and feel I need to now explore deeper into the meanings of them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of the experience was significant, it proved to me we carry on after death, I have no fear of dying, I sometimes, not in a morbid way, look forward to it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When I first came round at the hospital.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Excitement of finding out we carry on after death.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The same excitement as when I had the experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like to add that as a child I experienced lots of outer body experiences, from about the age of six until I was about ten years old on regular occasions I would leave my body at night and travel around the house, it was a lovely experience and I know it was not dreaming.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tony_g_nde.html