{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tony_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Tony D NDE 693","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tony D NDE 693  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Tony D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						215  Tony D NDE  693  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was on my way home from school. I was wondering why I shouldn't walk between parked cars, but I did anyway, to cross the street. The next thing I remember is that I am above my body watching my mother crying, that I am dead. I was laughing at her as I was above her watching.


I felt the presence of another person next to me. I was not disturbed by this, as I felt familiar with him. I guess that it was a him; this was not expressed either way. I remember turning to this person and trying to look into his eyes. I couldn't really focus on his face, and it was almost painful to look. I turned back to the events that were happening. I was watching them load me into the ambulance. I was having a conversation and laughing with this person. I looked again at him and I knew that I knew him really well. I recognized that I knew him before I came in here, into this body. I felt really happy being with him. The more that I looked at him, the more that I saw how long I knew him. I actually remembered knowing him even before this universe was created. I could actually see this. I looked and looked and I couldn't see any time that I didn't know him. I could see long before any of this stuff came into creation.


He called me by a different name that I recognized. It wasn't like a sound but rather a feeling that I recognized as me. I felt as though he was my oldest friend. The communication was in whole concepts. When I reflect back I can see what he said as though it was in a three hundred and sixty degree viewpoint, nothing was missing.


He told me to follow him, and I did. The next thing I remember was that I was standing in front of this large red book. He told me to look and I did. At first, I couldn't recognize anything. It was blurry like when I looked into his face. Then things started to clear up. Whatever I was looking at was like a moving picture. I remember that I was at first surprised that it was in color. I guess that it reminded me of television.  Back in 1955, if you did have a TV, it was black and white. Anyway the more that I looked, the faster that the scenes moved. After a bit the scenes stopped. We then talked a bit, about what I'm not sure, but I had the feeling that I would remember.


Then he wanted me to go with him again. This time we went through a series of spirals of different colors. When we stopped, I felt as though we really didn't move anywhere but rather these spirals moved through us. I then began to be aware of other beings; Lots of beings. More than I could count. I could see all around, front, back sideways. Wherever I placed my attention is where I saw. Whomever I saw, I felt as though I was in love with that being. There was no distinction as to gender, only a being. I knew that I was home. It all felt so natural.


Then I knew that it was time to go. Almost instantly, I was at the hospital. I was watching the doctors put me in a crib like bed. I remember not liking it at all. Then I saw a girl I knew from the neighborhood. Now I was embarrassed that she could see me in a crib. The next thing that I knew I was awake in my body with so much pain. I remember seeing my mother then I passed out again into darkness.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1955

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Accident     hit by a car, my body hit a telephone pole. my head cracked open.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I seemed to be very alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I felt like I could see the past and the future, especially when reading the book. Also it seemed as though I had been there for days when really only an hour or two passed.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    But I don't know how to describe them.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I explained about them above.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Already explained.

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Already described.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I am not sure that I want to share what I felt and understood as it is very much different than what we understand on earth.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I remembered past existences.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I don't like to get into this. I did see things that could happen, and I saw solutions to these situations. I don't think that humans are willing to make these changes.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I came back but didn't decide to return. In fact it didn't occur to me either way.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I understood so much more, but for many years there was a large gap between my inner awareness and my human awareness. I felt like two people and for a long time it was very difficult coming to terms with this.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I still do.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Feeling scared a lot, well into my early twenties. Yet at the same time having a great spiritual life. The only problem with this is that other people didn't see spirituality as I did.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Very rarely, and not fully.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I often experience deja vue, sometimes have dreams that predict my future, and others. Sometimes somebody will say something and it's like a key word, then I have this remembrance. Things become a little more in place, and I am left with the feeling that things are where they should be.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Not at this time.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I don't know what you should ask. Personally I communicate better on a one to one.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tony_d_nde.html