{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tomy_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Tommy T NDE 723","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tommy T NDE 723  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tommy T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						260  Tommy T NDE  723  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>

  					

I was a machine operator in a factory. The control for the machine was handheld and had a short circuit and I became the ground. When the electricity hit me, I remember seeing colors that appeared to be liquid and filled the entire room. It was similar to being underwater and looking at objects on the bottom. The colors seemed to slowly blend and flow but never mixing to form new colors. Slowly everything faded to darkness.


I then had the sensation of forward motion, yet could not see anything. A small point of light appeared up ahead and as I got closer, it became bigger, brighter and warmer. Not uncomfortably warm, but a sense of belonging and love. Peace overwhelmed me and I knew no fear. The light seemed to be coming from the far end of a tunnel and I went toward it.


When I exited the other end of the tunnel, I was standing in a grassy field that had low gently rolling hills. There were a few large oak trees and flowering bushes. I realized I was standing on a narrow sandy path and started walking along it. I didn't know where I was going but felt compelled to follow it. It felt like I was home and had lived there for a very long time.


The path lead over a slow rolling hill and when I got to the top, I could see the path lead to a small white bridge that crossed a small creek in the valley. I wish I could describe the vividness of the colors of the grass, flowers, sky, even the clarity of the water in the creek. It was like crystal. This is why I don't tell very many people. They can't comprehend and I can't explain.


I followed the path toward the bridge. It was a wooden arch bridge about ten feet long and four or five feet wide. It had a wooden handrail on each side. As I got to about fifty feet from the bridge, I noticed a figure dressed in brilliant white walking on the path on the other side of the bridge coming toward me. Just as I got to the end of the bridge, the figure was about ten feet from the other end of the bridge and he stopped and looked up at me. It was my grandfather who had died in 1966. I felt such warmth and peace and I never wanted to leave and started to go to him because I was so happy to see him again. When he turned to walk away, I stepped onto the bridge and I hit an invisible barrier and could go no further. I don't remember saying aloud the words, I was more like I just had the thought, but I told my grandfather to help me and not to leave me.


He stopped, turned, and looked at me and communicated that I couldn't come just yet that they weren't ready for me. I had to go back and take care of my family. He just wanted me to know that when I did come back that he would be there waiting for me. Suddenly something caught the back of my body and I was pulled rapidly backwards and back through the tunnel. Everything became very cold as soon as the light went out. I suddenly was on the emergency room table with several faces looking down on me. I can't describe the feeling of let down and disappointment I felt. Because of my accident, I had to have all my real teeth pulled and have worn dentures since I was twenty years old. I had no other complications from my experience. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    September 12, 1969

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident  Electrocution  Clinical death Electrocuted while at work. CPR not started for five minutes.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Total awareness.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Long, dark with a bright light at the other end. The feeling was warm and reassuring.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     My grandfather who died in 1966.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   See answer to previous question.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A green grassy field with low rolling hills, a few oak trees, flowering bushes, and a pathway that led to a small white arch bridge that crossed a crystal clear creek.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     Unseen boundary when I tried to cross the wooden bridge. I never got across the bridge.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     No longer fear death.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best - Seeing my grandfather.  Worst - Having to leave that beautiful place.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Only a few. Most just look at you and say 'Sure'.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Did you see colors that you've never seen before?

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tomy_t_nde.html