{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tommy_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Tommy S NDE 4187","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tommy S NDE 4187  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tommy S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2009 Tommy S NDE 4187  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					8-8-2002 I was going to do a simple task that I had done several times before. This was to build up a small place in a chipper throat that was worn down; this was causing wood slabs to hang and not feed into the chipper. So, after the mill shut down for the day, I assigned other workers to do other chores so we could all go home early because it was such a hot and very humid day in Louisiana.

After performing all safety tasks, I proceeded into the small throat of the chipper to make the weld to build up the place where the problem was. After crawling in there, I realized I had put my ground in the wrong place and I needed my slag hammer. I started to crawl backwards to get out when a naked place in the stinger lead contacted the metal trough that I was lying in. I was soaking wet with sweat and the electricity went in my arm and stomach and would not let me go. I couldn't yell or anything to get away and I could not breathe, so basically I suffocated to death and my heart stopped. Suddenly I remembered I had done everything I could now it was in the Lord's hands, so I started praying for God to help me. I saw this tunnel of white light drawing closer and closer and I was not afraid or in pain anymore, all I felt was peace.

Later I woke up briefly to vomit in the ambulance and there were angels attending me all in white. When I made mention of this later to the nurses they told me it was not us we all have on purple scrubs. And when arriving in the hospital I was still unconscious but I could see myself from above the table with my wife there holding my hand and IVs in me and covered with ice and doctors and nurses everywhere working on me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  8-8-2002

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    electrocution from a welding machine  Other when I was found I had been dead approx. 7-10 min. revived and remained unconscious for about 2 hours and 45 min.  I was being electrocuted and could not free myself from it, and I knew I was going to die.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was fighting for my life.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was fighting for my life.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The time that I was in the light seemed like a very long time, it's like God was keeping me there to get a glimpse of his glory.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't really know.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     But the angels that I saw were not in the light they ministered to me afterwards.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a bright tunnel of pure light like I have never seen before.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme fear and then peace like never before.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have a closer relationship with God Because of it.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have a closer relationship with God Because of it.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder, brain damage, and a lot of physical damage, and financial stress which adds to my family life but praise God He is going to see us through it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The tunnel of white light, angels surrounding me, and out of body experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing the light, being brought from the dead, it makes me closer to God makes me realize that every day we have is special.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I wanted to share this as soon as I was conscious but I was not able to talk due to my injuries, but as soon as I could I told everyone I talked about it. Some of their reactions were he is nut and some took it as what I saw was real a miracle from God.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real I don't care what anybody says!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have more time to have with my family and more time to tell others about what Jesus has done for me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tommy_s_nde.html