{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tommy_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Tommy P NDE 6572","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tommy P NDE 6572  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tommy P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3245 Tommy P NDE 6572  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This is pretty simple experience. It happened at night. After a few hours in a blackout, I saw myself flying in the sky. Then I was inside myself, flying, and I began to see things on the ground below. From, like, four hundred feet up in the air, I saw streets, I saw a soccer field and a basketball court, and then I saw the hospital. I was very familiar with the locations of all these landmarks. Then, from up there, I saw a blue car, an old Dodge Dart taxi, driving up to the entrance of the hospital. What I remember the most is watching the beam of the taxi's headlights on the ground as it moved closer and closer to the entrance of the little hospital's emergency room. Then I felt myself free falling for a second. I opened my eyes, physically, and I saw the faces of my mom and dad. They were transporting me in the back seat of a car. That's where I woke up, in the back seat of the car. Then, through the car's window, I saw the hospital's entrance. 

I remembered what I had just seen while I was flying, so I stuck my head through the open window and saw that it was the same blue car I had just seen from the sky, and it was in the same location! I got so scared and so confused that I fainted again. One more blackout. The next day, I woke up at home.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1984

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury. Other: I'm not sure if I was clinically dead. because my experience was on the way to a hospital  I was at the town park watching a parade with live music and dancers and a lot of people riding horses. Then a bus was trying to pass through the horses, and the driver honked his horn.  The horses got very scared by the loud noise. One of the riders fell off his horse, got up, and stood right in front of the bus and kept arguing with the driver.  Some people exited the bus and stood in a group with some other people who had come over to watch.  Then one of the horse riders got out a gun (who knows from where) and started shooting it up in the air. People started running. I was on my bike and some of these people bumped into me and pushed me so hard that I fell off my bike and hit the back of my head on the pavement really hard. I stood up and grabbed my bike. I don't remember how I got home. At home, I started saying strange things, and that was followed by my blacking out. I don't know if I was clinically dead. But they did take me to the hospital a few hours later. That's when I saw what I saw!

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Through the whole experience. It was short.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I felt like things happened faster.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I can say that my vision was almost the same. I remember I could feel the wind blowing through my hair and the feeling of it on my ears and on my arms and body.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard the wind while flying and when starting to free fall downward.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     During the first blackout, right before I went into free fall, I felt and also saw that I was flying. It is possible I passed through something. Some portal maybe. But I can't say a ‘tunnel.’

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I chose this answer because I know that I did go somewhere, but I don't remember where. And then my spirit or soul or my other kind of body was delivered back there, close to my physical body. That's when I was flying. After that, I woke up in my physical body. Then I got so confused and scared that I fainted.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt confusion and some fear because when I found out that my body was inside the very car that I had seen from the sky, I realized I had really been dead for a while. But I didn't know what had happened during that time. What had been going on with me during those minutes or hours?

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I think I was told something and sent back to life.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Family with high morals.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Since then, I have been more considerate of others and their feelings and needs.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I say yes because all that couldn't bee possible just by itself or because of ourselves.I dont believe we exist because of ourselves.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     That experience makes me feel positive about the existence of an afterlife and very superior consciousness and existence than our actual condition on earth.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I wonder where I came from when I noticed myself flying over the hospital.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Once I was taking a nap and I became aware, with a vivid and happy feeling, that I had woken up and was floating in the air. Then I opened my eyes and I saw my room's ceiling like three inches above my eyes. Then the happiness turned into some fear of ‘what if I can't get back down to my bed?’ I seemed to be totally awake. I started trying to force myself to go down. Then I felt like an electric discharge, and I opened my physical eyes, very happy. I was back on my bed.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tommy_p_nde.html