{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tom_s_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Tom S Probable NDE 6057","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tom S Probable NDE 6057  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tom S Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2876 Tom S Probable NDE 6057  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was suffering from an attack of kidney stones for the third time that week, and a new doctor came in and said, 'I'm going to give you the maximum pain reliever that you can take, for your weight: 250 mg of a mixture of morphine and Demerol.' The Certified Nursing Assistant (CNA) came in a minute later and injected it into my hip. I thought it was wrong for a CNA to give injections, but I didn't question it. The needle looked a lot more full than usual. I had been praying vary hard, because twice previously the pain had stopped during my recitation of the 'Our Father' prayer; when I had said the words, 'Give me this day, my daily bread.'  But this time it wasn't working.  

A moment after the injection, I was suddenly in front of a great Light. It had to have been God! It was so powerful that no words can describe it. The closest I can come is to say it was like being suddenly placed a few feet from the Sun; but instead of feeling heat, you feel Love, infinite Love. The Love emanated out in all directions in slow, gentle rays of light. Never can I forget it. Thirty years later, it's still what I mostly think about. A vision of a man appeared down to the right of the powerful Light.  I presumed it was Jesus. He looked like he does in most paintings.  He was wearing a white robe and was extending his hands out to greet me. Behind me, I felt the whole world carrying on - past, present, and future. I looked down at my current time period on the Earth, and wasn't too interested. 

I did feel curious about past settlers who had come across the Atlantic, and I became aware of three little ships on the sea which I started moving towards. They could have been Columbus' ships but I stopped because I didn't want to leave the presence of this Love. Then the Loving Power pointed me towards a city; it looked like New York City.  It had that city's profile, with the Empire State Building and the Chrysler Building, but not the World Trade Center Towers.  

I wondered why God was showing me this, and a voice telepathically said, 'I have a Plan.' The city was grey, and it was smothered in what looked like a fog. I presumed it was meant to symbolize any city, but on the day of 9/11, I realized that I had seen the future. What I had thought was fog, was dust. After this, the light disappeared and I felt like I was naked in a sand storm. There was a terrible sound, and I felt I was being crushed in a vice. My earthly eyes opened and I realized the sand storm was just me feeling my skin again, the noise was just me hearing again, and the crush was just the two thin bed sheets that had been laid over me. I sat up on the side of the bed and said, 'What was that? Take me back there!'  And that has been my prayer ever since.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 1982

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Drug or medication overdose.    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   I was suffering from kidney stones and was given an overdose,  of a mixture of morphine and Demerol.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The past (Columbus' ships on the Sea), present (my life) and future (New York City on 9/11.)  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt as big as a galaxy. I knew, or could know, anything and everything I wanted to know. When I looked at my life on this earth, it was like looking at the life of an ant.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All through it, but mostly when I was in front of the Power of God.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Things were shown to me as I willed, or as God willed.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see in all directions and all time and all places.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear with my ears. Communication was telepathic, with infinite LOVE included.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Like the sun.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, Love, Love; to infinity and forever, since there is no time in Heaven.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew everything, and I wanted to know and more.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     From the world's future, I saw New York City in what I thought was a fog (in 1982) but later recognized it as New York City in a cloud of dust on 9/11.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     We don't need religion. God is Love and just wants us to Love.  A child is closest to God because they Love unconditionally.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     My Catholic faith pretty much describes what I experienced.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     All things that matter are relative to what you will take with you; memories etc.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Jesus

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesus.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     This world is like a dream, not real, so connections are not real either. We are all connected to GOD who emanates us out of his Love.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     YES

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt like Jesus' brother, we have the same Father/Creator.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Life here is short and insignificant, like the life of an ant is to us. But But God Loves us so much our soul is very important and our soul lives forever.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Definitly there is a more real world after this one. This world is like God's dream that we wake up from when we die and are 'born' into the presence of GOD.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     LOVE is all we need to do.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Life here is like a dream that God is having. Imagine if you created a world in your mind, then that world exists in your mind. So this world exists because God is creating it.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     God is LOVE....LOVE is God. When we feel Love, we feel God.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Love is what matters to everyone.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no words to describe how much God Loves.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I have been able to help some people deal with the loss of a loved one.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it, but mostly the Love of God. Sadly. I can't feel it here.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Several months before this, I shared it and they didn't believe me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was real because the coming back was so dramatic.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can pray and God responds. I know he Loves me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Our drug problems are due to people seeking an 'elusive' heaven. To help people on drugs, we need to Love better, unconditionally.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tom_s_probable_nde.html