{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 6588 7374 7178","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v1_18_july_1883.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V1 July 18 1883","mylang":"de"}
,July 18, 1883.] ,Pre8ident'8 Addl'e8s. 245
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE SOCIETY ON
J,dy 18, 1883.
The fourth general meeting of the Society was held at Willis's
Rooms, London, on July 18, 1883,
HENRY SIDGWICK, ESQ., PRESIDENT, IN THE CHAIR.
The following address was delivered by the President :-
--- Before the real business of the meeting commences, I should like to \
say a few words on an important aspect of the programme and work of
the Society, which is liable, I think, to be imperfectly understood by
friends no less than foes. Of the two, it is more important at present
that our position should be as thoroughly and as widely as possible
underst-ood .by our friends-I mean by those who are willing to co-
operate with us; since, up to the present time, those hostile to our
work have mostly delivered their criticisms from so V6ry broad and
distant a view of it, that it would be too sanguine to hope that they
could be affected by any explanations of details.
The point to which I refer is our claim to be a scientific society, and
to carry on our work in a scientific spirit and by scientific methods.
Some not unfriendly critics have urged on me that this pretension is
absurd: "You may be right," they say, "but at any rate it is a pitched
battle between you and modern science; if you win, modern science
will receive a hard blow." If this were true, I for one should entirely
decline so unequal a struggle; but we hold it to be the reverse of true.
__ We admit, of course, that the majority of scientific experts still keep
aloof from us, and that the agreement of experts is the final test of the
establishment of truths ;-indeed we may apply to the scientific world
what an eminent statesman has said of the political world, that the
main duty of a minority is to try to turn itself into a majority. But
this is just what we hope to do; not so much by direct controversy, as
by patiently and persistently endeavouring to apply to the obscure
matters which we are studying methods as analogous as circumstances
allow to those by which scientific progress has been made in other
departments.
And even now I conceive that the conflict between our view-
either the general aSsumption on which we proceed or the particular
facts which our committees claim to have established-and the views of
S
Digitized by Google
246 President's Address. [July 18,
the majority of scientific men, is really much less profound than many
conflicts that go on within the field of recognised science. For there
we contiilUally see an internecine struggle of opposing positive doctrines;
but' what we have opposed to us is not really any positive doctrine
or proved method of another school of inquirers-much less any
established positive conclusion of science-but mere sweeping negations
of persons who have mostly given no study or thought to the matters
about which they deny; or, at any rate, a mere general presumption
against what appears to have no affinity to facts already systematised.
With the few positive contributions which physicists or physiologists
have offered towards the explanation of the phenomena we are
investigating, we have no conflict whatever. We recognise in almost
all cases a partial truth in such explanations; what we maintain is that
.a careful comparison of them with the facts shews them to be inadequate_
A very different objection seems to be sometimes felt to our
attitude of scientific inqui.rers by some of the persons who are in
the best position for assisting our investigations. I mean persons who
believe themselves to have certain knowledge on the most important
matters on which we are seeking evidence, who do not doubt that they
have received communications from an unseen world of spirits, but who
think that such communications should be kept as sacred mysteries
and not exposed to be scrutinised in the mood of cold curiosity which
they conceive to belong to science. Now we do not wish to appear m-
trusive; at the same time we are anxious not to lose through mere
misunderstanding any good opportunities for investigation: and I
therefore wish to assure such persons that. we do not approach these
1l1atters in any light or trivial spirit, but with an ever-present sense of
the vast importance of the issues involved, and with every desire to
:give reverence wherever reverence is found to be due. But we feel
bound to begin' by taking these experiences, however important and
however obscure, as a part of the great aggregate which we call
Nature; and we must ascertain carefully and systematically their
import, their laws and causes, before we can rationally take up any
definite attitude of mind with regard to them. The unknown or
uncommon is not in itself an object of reverence; there is no sacredness
in the mere limitations of our knowledge.
This, then, is what we mean by a scientific spirit; that we approach
the subject without prepossessions, but with a single-minded desire to
bring within the realm of orderly and accepted knowledge what now
appears as a chaos of individual beliefs. In saying that our 11l.ethoth
are scientific, we do not of course pretend to possess any technical
knowledge or art, needing elaborate training. "Science," as an eminent
naturalist has said, "is only organised common-sense;" and on ground
so very new as most of that is on which we are trying to advance, the
igitized byGoogl
1883.J Presidentj
8 A.ddre88. 247
organisation of common-sense, which we call scientific method, must
necessarily be very rude and tentative. Indeed, the value to us of the
scientific experts whom we are glad to count among our number
depends much less on any technical knowledge or skill thau on the
general habit of mind-what I may call the "higher common-sense"-
which their practice of scientific investigation has gi...en to them j
somewhat greater readiness and completeness in seeing considerations
and adopting measure\'! which, when once suggested, are not only
intelligible, but even obvious, to the common-sense of mankind at large.
For instance, nothing can be JIlore obvious than the need of making
as systematic and extensive a collection of facts as possible; partly in
order to establish as fact what, we believe, can only be established by
such an accumulation of evidence; and partly in order to obtain by
classifioationa general view of the leading characteristics of the facts, so
that we may be started in a right direction for investigating their con-
ditions. But this need does not seem to be thoroughly understood. Thus
a representative of the intelligent public has informed us that we have
now given facts enough, and that the intelligent public now demands
from us a satisfactory theory ofthem. Speaking for myself, I am afraid
I must ask the intelligent public to restrain its impatience for a year or
two more: a restraint which hardly ought to be difficult, considering
the length of time for which it has remained in a state of contented
nescience on these subjects. Again, a friend who has sent me a valuable
first-hand narrative of Thought-transference at a distance, has thought
it needful to apologise, on the ground that we" must be inundated with
these stories.,. Well, it is in one sense true that we are inundated; the
stream of them keeps flowing in more strongly than I had anticipated;
but we wish to be still more inundated-the tide is a favourable one
and it cannot rise too high for our purposes.
And this leads me to speak of the desire 'which the Council enter-
tain to get as much co-operation as possible in the experimental work
of the Society. We have endeavoured by the" Circular No.1," priDted
in our last Proceedings, to stimulate the formation of local committees
and independent centres of investigation in the subjects, especially, of
Thought-transference and Mesmerism. I am sorry to say that this
circular has so far produced little effect: I wish, therefore, earnestly to
call the attention of our members to it, and emphasise our desire forthe
kind of co-operation which it suggests. Any great increase in the
numbers of the committees appointed by the Council seems undesir-
able: but these committees would be glad to give the benefit of their
experience, in any way that may be desired, to any local committees
that may be started on an independent basis for this kind of research-
or supposing such local committees to prefer complete independence,
we should be no less glad to avail ourselves of their results. In short.
Digitized by Gougle
248 President'8 Addres8. [July 18~
if any member or associate of our Society feels moved to assist in any
part of our work, and does not find that the circular to which I have
referred gives him sufficient guidance as to the best method of doing
this, he has only to write to the secretary of the committee whose sphere
of operations interests him most, and the committee will do their best
to find for him a useful line of co-operation.
I have said that we cannot have too many well-attested narratives.
or records of experiments, even with a vi9W to establishing the general
trustworthiness of the results. The reason for this lies in the impossi-
bility, or extreme difficulty, of absolutely excluding, in anyone case
taken by itself, explanations of the phenomenon recorded which refer
,it to causes already recognised by science. This leads me back to the
question of the scientific method of dealing with the evidence attested;
as to which, again, w~ find ourselves in prima facie opposition with
the majority of scientific men. But here, again, as I have said, the-
opposition does not arise from any general unwillingness on our part to
accept the explanations of our opponents; on the contrary, we a.re
especially anxious to give them all due weight in the collection and
treatment of our evidence. We only refuse to admit them where we
find that the hypotheses manifestly will not fit the facts.
Thus, e.g., before coming to our conclusion as to Thought-trans-
ference we considered carefully the arguments brought forward for
regarding cases of so-called "Thought-reading" as due to involuntary
indications apprehended through the ordinary senses; and we
came to the conclusion that the ordinary experiments, where
contact was allowed, could be explained by the hypothesis of un-
conscious sensibility to involuntary muscular pressure. Hence we have
always attached special importance to experiments in which contact
was excluded; with regard to which this particular hypothesis is clearly
out of court.
Again, take Faraday'S well-known experiments on table-turning.
I have no doubt that Faraday rendered a real public service in prevent-
ing ignorant persons from supposing an unknown force required to
explain the turning round of a drawing-room table when a group sit
down to it in an evening party. And if the eminent physicist had been
able to explain, 4t the same simple and effective way, the rarer but yet
strongly attested cases in which tables are reported to have moved
without contact, or to have risen altogether off the ground, he would
have really " exploded the whole nonsense" of table-lifting. But we
submit that it is not a scientific way of dealing with a mass of
testimony to explain what you' can, and say that the rest is untrue.
It maybe common-sense; but it is not science.
Here, however, our more careful opponents, when they cannot find a
physical explanation for the facts related,fallback on various psychologi
Digitized by Google
1883.] Pre8ident'~ .Ad(fl'e88. 249
-cal explanations of the fact that they are related. They say that the
reporters have been deceived by "conjuring tricks" or illuded by
"expectant attention," or led into involuntary exaggeration from the
impulse to entertain their hearers with marvels, or have laid undue
stress on accidental coincidences,through oblivion or non-observation of
instances on the other side:-or when there is nothing else left they sim-
ply say, with more or less polite circumlocution, that we or our in-
formants must be telling lies.
Here, again, we admit that every one of the suggested causes-..-not
-excluding the last-has bet'n, in the history of human delusion, a 'Vera
.caUBa of marvellous narratives; and the whole detail of our procedure
in the different departments of our inquiry is governed by the need of
carefully excluding them. What we venture to think unscientific is
__ the loose way in which our opponents fling them about, without any
proper attempt to determine the limits within which they are probable.
Thus, e.g., when a man pays a guinea to attend a spiritualistic
-exhibition in a room over which the recipient of the money has perfeo,t
.control, it is reasonable to attribute to preparation and sleight of hand
whatever of the results could be produced by a professional conjurer on
Jlis platform; but it is not, therefore, equally probable that similar
results in a private dinino-room are due to the hitherto latent conjuring
powers of the housemaid. When a man goes to a house which he knows
to be haunted, it is not a noteworthy fact that he dreams of a ghost; or
-even if he lies awake at night in a nervous condition, he is likely to
mistake the rattle and sigh of thll wind for evidences of ghostly visitants ;
but it is not, therefore, plausible to refer to "expectancy" apparitions
for which the seers are "holly unprepared, and which they at first take
.calmly for their relatives. When a marvellous story is told af~r dinner
by a person who heard it from a friend of the cousin of the man who
was actually there, we may reasonably suppose that an indefinite
·amount of thrilling detail has been introduced in the course of tradition,
-especially if the links in the chain of tradition are supplied by persons
who are not accustomed to regard scientific accuracy as important
in these matters; but it is not therefore legitimate to explain in
this way a narrative which is taken direct from the diary of the original
·eyewitness. We may ultimately be able to shew that the whole mass
of evidence presented to us under each of these heads is clearly
explicable by causes which all will admit to be natural: but I cannot
think that this result will be attained without a more careful and
patient examination of the evidence than our critics deem it worth
while to give.
For the purpose, then, of this examination, our primary endeavour
is to collect phenomena, where explanations like those above mentioned
have at least a high degree of improbability. In no single case can the
Digitized by Google
250 P,"esidcnt's Addres8. [July 18.
inadmissibility of such explanations be absolutely excluded-not even
in the case of our own most conclusive experiments, when regarded from
the point of view of the outside public. For all records of experiments
must depend, ultimately, on the probity and intelligence of the persons
recording them; and it is impossible for us, or any other investigators,
to demonstrate to persons who do not know us that we are not
idiotically careless or consciously mendacious. We can only hope that
within the limited circle in which we are known, either alternative will
be regarded as highly improbable.
Digitized by Google
1883.]. Second Report of tke Oommittee on-j[cstnel'ism. .21H
I. . ....:
SEOOND REPORT
OF THE
COMMITl'EE ON MESMERISM.
Committee :-W. F.' BARRETT, F.R.S.E.; EDlIlUND GURNEY, M.A.;*
FREDERIC W. H. MYERS, M.A.;* HENRY N. RIDLEY, M.A., F.L.S.;
W. H. STONE, M.A., M.B. ; GEORGE WVLD, M.D.; and FRANK
PODMORE, B.A., lIon. SeC'retaf"lJ.
The experiments recounted in the first Mesmeric Report took
__us up to II. certain defined point. They were conclusive as to the pro-
dllction of a very singular physical and mental state in the "subjects "
of them; but the majority of them contained no conclusive indication
of any peculiar or specific influence, exercised by the organismor the
will of one person on the organism or will of another. It has long
been known that the fixation of the eyes in a particular manner
which slightly strains their muscles, or a gentle monotonous
stimulation such as that produced by passes, or even the monotonous
ticking of a watch held to the ear, win throw the nervous
system of II. sensitive" subject" into an abnormal state, in which he is
at the mercy of a "dominant idea," or of external suggestions and
commands, and responds to them in an automatic way. Facts of this
sort, and the theories of nervous change by which they may be accounted
for, are clQssed together under the name of Hypnotism; what distin-
guishes Hypnotism, as a thcory, from Mesmerism being just this-that
the one denies and the other affirms· the existence, in certain cases, of II.
8peci.ficinjluence 0'1' effluence,passing from the operatQr to the" subject."
We should be the first to admit that the commoner of the phenomena
popularly styled "mesmeric," those, for instance,associated with platform
exhibitions,are for the most part quite explicable on the hypnotic hypo-
thesis-in other words, that fixation of certain muscles, or gentle mono-
tonous stimulation of one of the senses, is competent to produce a con-
dition in which the normal cOlltrol of ideas and choicc of movements is
too. great extent abolished. It is, however, worth while to remark that
even the more ordinary exhibitions suggest points which have not been
sufficiently noticed by those who reject all idea of any specific influence.
Firstly, the objection to the sufficiency of the hypnotic explanation,
from the faot that some persons can operate successfully and others
• THB COUIICIL HOLDS ITSBLF GIIIIIERAJ.LY IIBSPONSIBLE Fun THE REPORTS OF ITS COllXITTEES.
AT TJlIII HIIIAD OF EACH RRI'OUT THill IIAMRS OF TIIOSR llEllBRRS OF COMlIITTEE WHO ARB
SPEOIALLY RESPONSIBLE 1"011 ITS COXPOSITION ARE MARKED WITH ASTEIlISK8.
Digitized by Google
252 Second lleport 0/ tile Oommittee on Mesmeri8m. [July 18,
cannot, has never been realised or met. There are all varieties both
of powl:'r and of susceptibility; But if we take a casual group of persons,
omitting those who are in no degree susceptible, we shall probably find
that they be arranged somewhat in the following order. A and B can
hypnotise tltemselves, either by the inward and upward squint, or, as it
may sometimes seem, by mere imagination and expectancy. C and D
cannot hypnoti~e themselves, but can be hypnotised by gentle
rhythmical stroking at the hand of almost anyone. E and F can be
slowly and partially affected by almost.any one, but immediately and
thoroughly by a given "mesmerist," X. And the rest of the letters of
the alphabet can be sent into the sleep-waking state by X, and by X
alone, even though they may have no previous notion that X can affect
them-nay, even though they are distinctly told that it is not X but Y
~vho will be able to control them. In such 0. case-as we have our-·
selves seen-Y may be as Goliath and X as David in comparison, but
the big man will not succeed in doing in an hour what the small man
. who has the specific gift will do in five minutes.*
Secondly: Just as X alone can send these persons into the trance,
so X alone can awake them out of it. It is very easy to take care
that the subject sho.ll have no previous notion that X alone will be
, able to wake him; and, as a matter of fact, the most striking illustra-
tions of this thesis are cases where every one present, mesmerist in-
cluded, is new to mesmerism, and believes that anyone who chooses
can wake any "subject 1/ up again. The typical case is somewhat as
follows. A group of persons at an evening party begin to mesmerise
each other in joke. One of the guests sends a schOOlboy to sleep,
and drives off, thinking nothing more about it. At· the end of the
evening the boy's parents try to wake him up. They cannot do so I
The boy begins to rave, all;d is worse when touched or spoken to.
Next morning they send in alarm for the guest who has done the
mischief. He succeeds in waking the boy, but the experiment is
followed by a week of headache and depression.
This brings us to a third point, tending to shew th~ reality of the
mesmeric influence, namely, the distress and even danger which some-
times follows on cro88-rnesmeruation-on passes, that is to say, made by
Z upon a person whom X has already mesmerised, and over whom X
may make passes as often as he likes with only a soothing result. .In
such acase, Z's passes or personal contact mayvery probably have no effect
* Nothing in Heidenhain's treatment of the subject is more unsatisfactory
than his attempt to account for the existing differences in the power of pro-
ducing the result by differences of temperature, moisture, and style,of movement.
in the several operators' hands. All that is needed, according to his own theory,
is gentle monotonous stimulation. The number of hands in the world whose
"moisture, temperature, and style of movement" are, or can be made, such as to
allow of this BOrt ofstimulation, are clearly innumerable; and the fact of whon,.
-exceptional operative powers is thus left quite unexplained.
Digitized by Google
1883.] Second Repo'rt of the Oommittee on Mes111e1'ism. 253
whatever; but in a specially sensitive" subject" they sometimes bring
.about a state of mental chaos, of alternating violence and bewilderment
whi.::h, though it almost always subsides after a time, constitutes a risk
against which experimenters in mesmerism must before all things be
on their guard. To the reality o! this singular state, whatever its
-cause, we can testify from personal experience. Now the "dominant
idea," so far as it exists here, must be strong fear or dislike to all
human beings except one; but inasmuch as there bas been nothing
whatever to suggest such an idea. to the " subject's" mind, its
-existence is not an explanation, but 0. fact which itself seems explicable
-only on the hypothesis of a special rapport established between the
" subject" and his recognised controller.
And fourthly, passing from these general characteristics of the
--.,'Plesmeric state to more definite experiments, we may observe
t1l:t.t even the rough platform exhibitions often present features
which seem quite irrelevant to any theory of paralysis of the
will, or subjection of the mind to a suggested idea. A boy, for
instance, is told that he may bave a sovereign if he can pick
it up. He struggles to do so till the sweat runs down his face; while
his countenance, so far from being blankly acquiescent, is full of
incredulity, resolution and rage. Sometimes he will succeed in doing
what he is told he cannot do-he will wrench his Hat palm away from
the operator's Hat palm after an apparently desperate struggle. Can we
suppose that in these cases volitional power has been paralysed, or the
nerve-functions normally associated with the desired acts inhibited,during
.all the time that the boy has been vehemently struggliLg to perform
them ~ The theory which covered the cases of the frog stroked into
immobility, or the cock set staring at a chalk line, must be considerably
stretched if it is to suffice us here. Or let us take a case in which the
obvious effoct is a. mental one. A boy in a light state of trance is
asked what is his name, and gives it; he is at once asked again, and
now (at the mesmerist's silent wish) he eannot remember it. It may be
said that the idea that it is impossible to recall the name, though not
virtually expressed, is suggested to him by the very nature of the
experiment. But at any rate this idea is so far from being dominant
in his mind that he will sit for half an hour hopefully struggling for
the word, as may be proved by asking him from time to time what he
is thinking about. It may be answered: "It is not needful that the
suggested idea should absorb the mind, but only that the brain should
have been thrown into such a state that particular centres or sets of
(lonnections can easily be made to suffer inhibition of t;heir normal
-functions. All that is neeess9.ry is to inhibit the nerve-activities which
normally accompany the boy's utterance of his name." But ~hat,then,
are we to take as the immediate cause of such inhibition1 Surely the
Digitized by Google
,254 Second Report qfihe Oommittee on1lle8meri8m. [July 18~
suggested idea that the action is impo88ible. But here the boy's.
conviction is that the action is p088ible,· so that we shall have to conceive-
the inhibition as consequent on an idea which the boy at most imagines
as present in 80me on8 else's mind, and which he persistently refuses t(}
admit into /,is own. That is to say, we must credit with this singular
inhibitory power an idea which is nevertheless unable to prevent its
exact opposite from dominating consciousness. So that here again the
.inhibitory theory will have to be stretched to embrace facts almost
directly opposite to those which it was originally started to explain.
Clearly, however, public exhibitions are very ill-suited for producing
conviction; nor is the platform the place for delicate experimentation.
We will therefore proceed to give a fe'Y samples of the more conclusive
results, indicative of the specific mesmeric influence, which we have
obtained in private. We hoped to have by this time added largely to
their number; but have, unfortunately, been prevented from doing this
by the illness of the operator whom we were employing.
Prominent among these are various phenomena belonging to the
class of mesmeric rapport. Of the subdivisions of this class, the one
most widely attested by previous observers is perhaps that of community
of sensation between the operator and th('l "subject"; and to us the
results obtained in this department are of special interest, owing to their
bearing on those further phenomena of Thought-transference between
persons in a normal condition, which have only quite lately obtained
any degree of scientifio recognition. Not, of course, that the two sorts
of phenomena are by any means identical; but it may be hoped that the
two inquiries will throw light on one another; and at any rate the d prim
obJection of impossibility to which the facts are exposed is the same in
either case, and is satisfactorily disposed of by proof of the reality of
either. We may ·observe that it is to experiments in rapport that the
hypothesis of collusion seems specially appropriate; and it must be met
by an accumulation of experiments with different" subjects." But
fortunately the hypothesis has not,in the departments of Hypnotism and
Mesmerism, the same plausibility as it had in relation to some
of our experiments on Thought-transference, the " su~jects" of
which were in a normal state. For the peculiar condition of the mes-
merised or hypnotised" subject" is one which, after a little experience.
it is not ('Iasy to mistake; and the irrepressible honesty and directness
of conduct which characterise it have been generally recognised by those
who deny no less than by those who maintain the reality of the
e, mesmeric" agency."
'" For a case in which the hypothesis of a code was absolutely excluded by the
fact that theinvestigator was himself the mesmeriser, see Professor Barrett·1! paper
rea.d before the British Association at Gla.sgow in 1876, and partly reprinted in
the last nnmber of our II Proceedings:'
Digitized by Google
1883:] .Second Report oj tke Oommittee Ol~ Mesme1'ism. 255.
A series of experiments, illustrating one form of rapport-the com-
munityof sensatlon,-was included in our last Report. We are pur-
suing this branch of inquiry, but will defer a further account· until a,
considerable number of cases have been collected and compared.
A much more.distinctive sort of mesmeric sympathy may be found
in the extraordinarily exalted susceptibility of the" subject " to sensory
impressions received from the operator. As long as this merely takes
the form of exalted sensibility to the operator's voice, combined as 0.
rule with deafness to other voices, it no doubt may be and frequently
has been explained in the old way, as due to the dominance of a single
idea.--the possession of the" subject's" mind by the idea of his operator's
control making him abnormally wakeful and responsive to any sensible
signs that can be recognised as issuing from him, and correspondingly
---inattentive to all others. Even so, the experiment may be so arranged
as to bring out very clearly the abnormal physical state on which it was
Braid's great merit to insist; for if the operator's voice and words.
be distinguished among a perfect Babel of other voices, the sensorium
of the percipient must be at any rate in a most remarkable state"
analogous, e.g., to that of a person who should distinguish the flame of a
candle held against the sun. But it seems impossible to carryon the
"hypnotic" explanation in any W9.y to cases where the sensory impres-
sion is not a spoken sentence,but the faintest whisper of a monosyllable..
The individuality of voices (at any rate where there is no excep·
tional peculiarity in the pronunciation of consonants, such as a
lisp) depends entirely on timbre and inflexion, which are produced
by the vocal chords and by changes in the shape of the pharynx,
and which have no place at all in a low whisper. It is easy for
anyone to assure himself of this by shutting his eyes and getting a.
dozen of his acquaintances in turn faintly to whisper such a mono-
syllable as " Fred " in his hearing; he will find himself totally unable to
identify the author of the sound. How far the case is otherwise with a
- mesmerised"subjeot" may be seen from the following experiments. Our
former" subject," Fred Wells, being placed in a corner, with his back
to the room, Mr. Smith and two of our own number kept whispering.
his name, "Fred," as softly as possible and at uncertain intervals; he in
every case responded to Mr. Smith, anI} in no case to either of the others.
Again, Mr. Smith took his place in a corner of the room, side by side
with one of the observers ; Wells, again in a tolerably deep state of
trance,was seated in the opposite corner, in such a position that he could
not have seen Mr. Smith even had his eyes been open and in their normal
state; and one of the present reporters kept up a perpetual loud howling·
and clapping at the distance of an inch or two from his ear. Mr. Smith
then at quite uncertain intervals, whispered the one syllable" Fred," so
faintly as to be inaudible to the gentleman who was sitting in contact
Digitized by Google
256 Second Report oj illC Oommittee on Mesmerism. [July 18,
with him, and who saw his lips move. Wells responded at once to every
,such whisper. This experiment was successfully repaated ten times. Mr.
Smith, with his companion, then went into the adjoining dark room,
where thick curtains separated him from the "subject," and again ten
immediate responses were given to the whispered wol"!i, which at tha.t
·distance would have been inaudible to an ordinary ear even if listened
for in perfect silence, instead of amid unearthly bellowing. On being
·asked afterwards whether he had heard the bellower's voice, Wells
replied that he had only heard Mr. Smith; but when the latter prepared
him for being spoken to by the gentleman to whose loudest vocal efforts
he had thus been impervious, and when that gentleman then addressed
him in the gentlest tone, .he a.t once complained loudly of the excessive
noise.
A stranger phenomenon still, and one which takes us altogether out_
of the region of exalted sensibility, is the effect produced on the power
of response by the unexpressed will of the operator. Our experiments
on this head have been made on our friend, Mr. Sidney Beard. A list
of twelve Yeses and Noes in arbitrary order was written by one of our-
.selves and put into Mr. Smith's hand, with directions that he should
successively "will" the "subject" to respond or not to respond, in
accordance with the order of the list. Mr. Beard having been previously
put into the deep trance, and lying with closed eyes, a tuning fork was
struck and held at his ear, with the question, "Do you hear 1" which in
this case was asked by one of ourselves, as the ordinary insensibility
to other voices than those of the operator had not supervened. This
was done twelve times with a completely successful result, the answer
·or the failure to answer corresponding in each case with the "yes" or
"no" of the written list-that is to say, wi!ih the silently concentrated
.will of the mesmerist.*
These cases,it will be observed, however conclusive they may appear
* Similar trials on other occasions were equally successful; as also were trials
where the tuning.fork was dispensed with, and the only sound was the question,
." Do you hear 1.. asked by one of the observers. On these latter occasions, how-
ever, Mr. Smith was holding Mr. Beard's hand; and extreme adherents of the theory
of "muscle-reading" might maintain that" yes" and "no" indications were
given by unconscious variations of pressure. How completely unconscious the
supposed "reader" was of any such sensible guidance will be evident from Mr.
Beard's own account. .. During the experiments of January 1, when Mr. Smith
mesmerised me, I did not entirely lose consciousness at any time, but only ex·
perienced a sensation of total numbness in my limbs. When the trial as to
whether I could hear sounds was made, I heard the Bounds distinctly each time,
but in a large number of instances I felt totally unable to acknowledge that I
heard them. I seemed to know each time whether Mr. Smith wished me to flAy
that I heard them; and as I had surrendered my will to his at the commencement
-of the experiment, I was unable to reassert my power of volition whiljlt under his
inD.uence."
Digitized by Google
" \
1883.] . Second Repm·t oj ti,e Oommittee on Mesmm·isTn. 257
as to mental influences acting otherwise than through recognised sensory
channels, still do not drive us to suppose any special physical e.flluence or
force as passing from the operator to the "subject." Such an eflluence
is indeed strongly suggested,'as we have already seen, by the mode
of producing or of putting a stop to the mesmeric state, taken in con-
nection with the exceptional powers in that direction which certain
individuals possess; but as far as the resulting phenomena go, It would
be a conceivable hypothesis that the trance-condit.ion is produeed
hypnotically, and not as any special effect of one organism on the other,
but that, when once it is produced, a special mental influence can be
brought to bear, analogous to ordinary Thought-transference, but
differing therefrom in the striking fact that only one person is able to.
exercise it. Even so the heart of the mystery, the mental rapport, the
~...problem·why the one influential person should always be the operator,
remains wholly unravelled; since no amount of supposed hypnotic su];)..
mission to the operator's will could afford a solution to cases (like thost)
just described) where there was nothing to suggest to the "subject"
what that will at that particular moment was. But further experiment&.
make it almost impossible to doubt the reality of some sort of special
force or virtue, passing from one organism to the other, in the process
of mesmerisation ; and however vague at present may be our conceptions.
of the nature of this p"'!lsical rapport, there is at any rate a satis-
faction in being able to point to it as the basis or condition of the
1nental.
We find what seems at any rate a probable indication of such physical
eflluence in cases where the "subject" is allowed to remain in a perfectly
normal condition, with the exception of local effects produced on him
without contact, and without any possibility that the idea or expectation
of them shall dominate his mind. Such an experiment is the following
which in the first instance was suddenly improvised, and which we have
repeated between thirty and forty times without a single failure. The
- "subject" was blindfolded and seated at a table, on which his ten 'fingers
were spread out beforehim. A screen, formed of thickbrown paper quad-
ruply folded, was then placed in front of his body in such a way that
it rested on his fore-arms and against his breast and head, extending far
beyond him in all directions. On some occasions holes were n:.ade in the
paper for his arm to pass through, so that the screen became a gigantio
breastplate reaching high above his head. No one probably will deny
the possibility of so arranging this simple apparatus as to make sure
that the boy's fingers should be completely concealed from his sight, even
apart from the blindfolding; and no one who witnessed the experiments
found it possible to, entertain the slightest doubt on this score. Two
out of the ten fingers were then selected by one of the present reporters
and silently pointed out to :Mr. G. A. Smith, who then, standing beyond
Digitized by Google
.258 Second Report of tlte Oommittee on Me8merigm. [July 18,
the screen at a distance of some feet from the subject, proceeded to make
extremely gentle passes over them. Oare was taken to preserve such a.
'·distance between the tips of Mr. Smith's fingers and those which he was
operating on as to preclude all chance of 'contact, or even of the produc-
tion of a sensible current of air. The experimenters themselves were
totally unable to detect any such current when similar slowpasses were
made over their own fingers, though their hands were decidedly less
thick-skinned and more sensitive in the ordinary sense than those of the
" subject;" but, to make assurance doubly sure, one of them as a rule
kept making passes over two of the eight non-selected fingers, imitating
Mr. Smith's pace and mode of action as completely as possible. It was
-even found possible to dispense altogether with movement, the mesmerist
simply holding his fingers in a downward direction over those of the
" subject;" but the results were obtained more quickly when passes--
were made. It is needless to say that Mr. Smith (whose genuinely
scientific curiosity on the subject has led him throughout to welcome
the most stringent tests and conditions) was under the closest observa-
otion during the whole experiment. ,After the passes had been continued
for a minute or less, the two fingers proved to be perfectly stiff and in-
sensible..The points 'of a sharp carving fork ~9ntly applied to one of
the other fingers evoked the sort of start and protest that might have
been expected; the same points might be plunged deep into the
chosen two without producing a sign or a murmur. The insensibility
being once proved, the stabs were on several occasions made with a vio-
lence which it required some nerve to apply, and which would have
seemed barbarous 00 an ignorant bystander unless he had chanced to
note at thesame instant the smiling silence or easy chatter of the victim
and on all occasions what was done was sufficient to produce in a normal
finger, however pachydermatous, a most acute pang. The experiment
was equally successful when varied by applying a lighted match to the
more sensitive region surrounding the nail; but it was not thought well
to repeat it often in this form, as we were unwilling to cause the" sub-
ject," even with his own consent, any sensible amount of subsequent
inconvenience. It may possibly be suggested* that some organisations
'" The only other objection that occurs to us is that it is possible here to suppose
a. case of direct inhibition-that, though the currents of air or changes of temper-
ature produced bY'movements of the operator's hand were imperceptible to the
" subject," they yet sufficed to setup a weak monotonousstimulation, whereby the
power of response in the particular sensory centre was gradually annulled, But
(1) other operators ought then to succeed; (2) the explanation does not extend to
the cases where the operator's hand did not move; (3) the explanation is itself
most violent, and contrary to all analogy. Heidenhain himself never suggests
that the weak and monotonous stimulation which induces the hypnotic state can
·be so weak as not to reach the threshold of consciousness; and it seems incredible
that suchsub-liminalstimnlation should suffice to bring a.bout the localanresthesia
Digitized by Google
1883.J Second Report oj tlte Oommittee on 1J[esme,·iS1n. 259
are extremely impervious to pain; and that the youth, lJeing warned
of what was coming.by the slight preliminary pricks 011 some of the
fingers which retained their sensibility, was enabled to set his teeth,
and to carry out the wholly inscrutable and useless project of enduring
the agony when it came without complaint. Anticipating this
objection, on a. good many occasions after we had convinced ourselves
of the genuineness of the phenomenon, the wielder of the fork or the
match took care to begin with one (if the mesmerised fingers. The
assault then came, it' will be observed, at a moment which it was
impossible for the "subject" to foresee; and we know of no warrant
for the assumption that an ordinary youth, who is sitting with relaxed
limbs in quiet unconcern, would be able to control every sort of refl.ex
start or twitch when a naked flame is suddenly: applied to one of the
___most sensitive parts of his person. It is wise, however, to guard
against even unwarranted assumptions; and we have accordingly
repeated the experiment with other"subjects "-one of them a delicate
woman, whose shrinking from pain was such that the merest touch of
the point of the fork on one of her un-mesmerised fingers would cause
a half-hysterical cry. The trials with her were fully as successful as
those with the robu~ter organisms; but were sooner discontinued, owing
to the difficulty, in the case of very thin-skinned and delicate hands,
of taking such measures as under ordinary conditions would cause
severe pain without running the risk of subsequent annoyance or
disfigurement.
The rigidity of the mesmerised fingers could be tested with, if
:possible, even more certainty than their insensibility, by simply telling
the " subject," after a minute of mesmerisation, to close his or her fist;
the selpcted digits in every case refused to bend with the others, and
-thus for the first time revealed to their possessor what particular pair
it was that had been operated on. And opportunities sometimes
presented themselves for testing this rigidity and want of motive
power in an impromptu way. Thus it happened one night that the
Y011th whose fingers were the subject of the experiments just described
was lying in a very deep mesmeric sleep, with his head buried in a
cushion and one hand extended andgrasping the back of the sofa frame.
One of the present reporters silently threw a screen over his head and
body, leaving only his one hand exposed, and then beckoned to the
mesmerist to approach and make a few noiseless passes over the hand.
which (when produced, as above described, withoutsuggestion) is a far rarer phe-
nomenon than the general hypnotic state. Lneal and pal·tial inhibition of par-
ticular sensory centres, brought about by t/.1/felt stimuli, while general volition
and consciousness remain quite unimpaired, would at any rate, bear no relation
whatever to the inhibition (as Heidenhain conceives it) of the fl:ltole aI'ea of voU-
tion and consciousness by a monotony of felt stimuli.
Digitized by Google
260 Second Report of the Oommittee Oli Me8merism. [July 18
The screen was then removed, and the boy wakened by the usual clap
and call. On endeavouring, however,to rise and leave the sofa, he found
his hands tightly glued to the framp, nor did all his efforts avail to-
withdraw it until some reverse passes had restored it to animation.*
We have advisedly described the results described in the last two
paragraphs as only a probable indication of a specific efHuence. For we
cannot pronounce it impossible that they may merely represent a special
form of TI/'(Jl£gl~t-tranif6'l'encJ. If we admit that the operator's know-
ledge as to what particular finger he is operating on is an idea
communicable by Thought-transference, and that such knowledge, when
imparted to a "subject," might lead to paralysis of sensation in the
finger to which his att13ntion was thus directed, then it is not incon-
ceivable that the same train of events might happen with the omissw",
of the psychical element of the "subject's" knowledge. In other.._
words, it is conceivable that some process of nervous induction, not
from finger to finger but from brain to brain, might produce the
insensibility, without excitation in the "subject's" brain of that
particular activity which would correspond with a conscious idea of
.the particular finger. This hypothesis requires at any rate to be
carefully tested.
,The reality of the physical efHuence is ~uch more strongly
suggested by the fact that, though emitted only from living bodies, it
can be made to produce effectswhich inhere for some minutes in inorganic
ones. An object which has been handled, or over which passes have
been made, by a mesmerist, will be recognised and picked out of a num-
ber of similar objects by a peraon who is sensitive to that mesmerist's
influence. This phenomenon is no doubt rare, but fortunately it is one
which it is particularly easy to test. In the following case, for example,
the "subject"-a gentl~man with whom we have frequently experi-
• In oonnection with this experiment, we may quote the following passage
from Professor Mayo's TNJ,tks contained in Po'[1'Ular Bupe7·ltitio1ll, 3rd edition,
p: 155 :-"A servant of mine, aged about twenty-five, was mesmerised by Lafon-
taine for a full half-hour, and, no effect appearing to be produced, I told him he
might rise from the ohair and leave us. On getting up ,he looked uneasy, and
said his arms were numb. They were perfectly paralysed from the elbows down-
wards, and numb to the shoulders. This was the more satisfaotory, thatneithp,r
the man himself, nor Lafontaine, nor the four or five speotators expected this
result. The operator triumphantly drew a pin and stuok it into the man's hand,
whioh bled but had no feeling. Then, heedlessly, to shew it gave pain, Lafontaine
stuok the pin into the man's thigh, whose flashing eye and half-suppressed growl
denoted that the aggression would certainly have been returned by another, had
the arm whioh should have done it not been really powerless. However, M. La-
fontaine made peace with the man by restoring him the use and feeling of his
arms. This was done by dusting them, as it were, by quiok transverse motions of
his extended hands. In five minutes nothing remained of the palsy but 0. slight.
stiffness, whioh gradually wore off in the oourse of the evening."
.
Digitized by GoogIe i
.1883.] Second Report of tlte Oommittee O/j JJ1esmm·ism. 261
mented, and whose anxiety for complete tests has always been fully
equal to our own-was engaged in conversation by one of our committee
in a room on another floor during the time that the process of mesmer-
ising the chosen object was going on. That process consisted merely of
passes and occasional light touches, and was most carefully scrutinised '
throughout. When it was concluded, the mesmerist was taken into a
third room by another member of the committee, and] the "subject"
was then introduced into the room where the mesmerised object lay
II.mong a number of others. This object had of course been selected by
one of ourselves, and its position in relation to the others was generally
changed after the mesmerist had left the room and before the subject
entered it; but this was a superfluity of precaution, as the two were
never for an instant within sight or hearing of one another. In the
first experiment a cardboard box, in the second a pocket-book, selected
--from a small group of ten small objects (including, e.g., a lump of wax, a
pen-wiper, a paper-knife, &c.), was mesmerised and was successfully
picked out by the" subject" after he had held each of the objects for a
moment in his hand. We have found it best to avoid using coins and
metallic substances, as our results with them, though sometimes start-
lingly successful, have been uncertain; and also they are so easilywarmed
even by very slight contact with the hand, that it is necessary in their
case to take special measures for insuring equality of temperature between
the o~ject operated on and the others. After the second trial we elimi-
nated the uncertainty as to results which might arise from the use of a
variety of substances, and employed ten small volumes, resembling each
other as closely as any two peas. Anyone of thesethat we selected having
been operatedon,the "subject" identified the particular volume'four times
i.n succession the instant that he touched it, and ~aain on a fifth occasion
after taking up each of the ten in turn. The sense of 81nell was in no
case resorted to; and to avoid all chance of Thought-transference
oOr of unconscious indications, we were careful that the particular
. member or members of the committee who had selected the volume,
3nd knew which of the ten it was, should avoid watching this
part of the proceedings. In the last tri8.l (as well as in other
successful experiments of the same kind) no contact whatever
had taken place between the hands of the mesmerist and the book.
That the very slight contact which was permitted ill the precediilg
trials could produce such a change of temperature in a cardboard box or
the binding of a book as would be sensible to humanhands aminute after-
wards, seems a violent assumption; but we took the precaution, during
the mesmerising process, of ourselves giving a similar amount of hand-
ling to some of the nine objects which were not being operated on. The
chances against succeeding by accident in seven consecutive trials of this
kind are ten millions to one; and the experiment may therefore, we
T
Digitized by Google
262 Second.Report 0/ tlte Oommittee on Mesmeri8m. [July 18.
think, be considered a tolerably crucial one. The" subject" described
his sensation on taking up the right object as " a kind of mild tingling."
This result may be compared with Esdaile's most striking account of
the effect of "mesmerised water" on his Hindoo patients. Our own
experiments on the power of a sensitive "subject" to detect water over
which mesmeric passes had been made, have been successful to the
extent of giving results ~nst which, on the hypothesis of accidental
occurrence, the chances were hundreds to one: but in these matters it
is perhaps a justifiable demand that the adverse chances shall be
reckoned by millions.
We have been here concerned with the reality of an influence other
than thoSe which any form of l~'!Ipnotic theory has recognised; and
have defined the particular sorts of experiment in which such an
influence may be most clearly traced. But though the experiments· .
above recorded were made under accurate scientific conditions,· and
their results therefore seem to us to constitute a strong prinJd facie
case, we are fully a.ware that their number must be very largely
increased before we can hope for any wide scientific acceptance of a
theory of mesmeric influence; and the chief object which we have had
in view in the present Report is to indicate lines of inquiry, and to
emphasise the importance of vigorously following them up. For this
purpose· what has been said will, we hope, prove sufficient. Future
reports will necessarily be drawn up in a less popular style, and will
comprise more formal and detailed statements of the experimental
work.
Digitized by Google
,1883.] E;r:periments in Tllougltt-Tra,nsjerence.
II.
RECORD OF EXPERIMENTS
IN
THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE,
At Liverpool,
263
By MALCOLM GUTIlRIE, J.P., and JAMES BIRCHALL, Honorary Secretary
of the Liverpool Literary and Philosophical Society.
The following is a record of all the experiments which have been
-~ made with the two "subjects ,I employed, from the commencement of
anything like systematic trials at the beginning of April, 1883, till the
end of May, and again from the end of September till the middle of
November; with the exception (1) of a series in wltich some members
of the Thought-transference Committee of the S:P.R. took part; and
(2) of experiments in the reproduction of diagrams.-which will be
separately recorded. Some of the experiments, as will be seen, were
failures. Others, such as the "willing" of particular actions, were made
not so Dluch for scientific purposes as for the sake of variety, and to
keep the "subjects" amused; and we do not present these as evidence
of "Thought-transferen~," since the possibility of unconscious indica-
tions was not excluded.; ,But there are a large number of complete
successes under conditions, when that possibility was excluded. ,And
the cumulative force of the wlwle series of trials will scarcely be denied
by anyone who is willing to accept our ,assurance of their complete
genuineness. The "subjects" were liwo young ladies whom I have
known for many years; and I am, thoroughly satisfied as to their
bona fides, and as to the thoroughly trustworthy character of the
experiments. .
I shall hop~ to justify this confidence in a further report." For the
present it must suffice to say that, almost all the experiments witl, objectB
were performed under strictconditions-the "subjects," being blindfolded,
• A. description by lIr. Guthrie of the oircumstances in whioh these experi-
menta originated, and a fuller aooount of the conditions nuder whioh they were
conduotsd, as well as the experiments here omitted, will be inoluded in the next;
number of the Proceedings. That nnmber will also oontain many specimens of
diagrams whioh the " subjects" have reprodnoed by means of a transferred
impreasion. These results difter from those already obtsined and published by
the Committee on Thonght-t>-ansferenoe. in that, in many oases, the diagram to
be reproduced was only seen by II lingle per8on-to ,wit, one or other of the
gentlemen who were oonduoting the experiments.
T 2
Digitized by Google
26! E:cpe1'iment8 in Tlwuglit.TralliferclIce.
and the objects placed out of thO range of their vision, even had they
not been thus incapacitated for observation; and silence being preserved
during the progress of the experiments. In other cases the precautions
were not so strict; but as the rule has been to record every incident,
without any exception whate-rer, the full record is presented.
MALCOLM GUTHRIE.
My attention, throughout the whole series of experimeuts, has been
mainly directed to the strict observance of the necessary conditions.
As far as I am able to judge, the experiJpents here recorded are
unquestionably genuine. The explanation of them I leave to those who
feel competent to undertake it. ..
J AS. BIRCHALL.
N.B.-When no contact was used, all who were present (except
the "subject") were concentrating their attention on the object, and
all, therefore, are described as the collective" agent." The words.
"all present,:' under the heading of "agent," thus imply absence of
()ontact. When contact was used, all present were, as a rule, similarly
()oncentrating their attention; but here, for convenience, the one person
who was in contact with the "subject" is described as "agent."
For the first half of the experiments, the contact, when employed,
consisted in clasping hands; for the second hali it consisted merely in
laying a hand lightly on the back of the "subject's" hand. But it
soon became pretty obvious that the contact had little, if any, direct
,effect; and the reason why it seemed well to continue using it at the
,eommencement of a series of experiments, was merely to put the
"'subjects" (who possibly had some faith in it) at thp.ir ease. It should
,be added that the results were spoken, not written, by the "subjects."
April 4, 1883.
P1'{'S(mt : lIIr. Guthrie, lIIr. Birchall, Miss R., Miss R-d, Miss C., and Miss J.
AGENT. PERCIPIENT.
.Miss J. Miss R•
do. do.
do. do.
do. do.
OBJECT. RESULT.
Figures 17 on a " Sixteen...
card, containing
Nos. 1-31.
20816 on bank note "4" .. 2 ". remaining
fi~s ~ot seen. '
A large spot of "A round red spot."
scarlet silk on
black sa.tin.
A triangle of blue "The colour is blue • • . like ..
silkonblack sa.tin diamond •.• but it isn't a.
diamond. Like&II ifit were cut
off. Is pointedat one end. The
rest of the shape I cannot see...
Digitized by Google
A
Experiments in TllOuultt-Tl'mVljerelice• '265
.April 7, 1883.
Present: Miss R., Miss R-d, Miss J., Miss E., and Miss C.
(First experiments without contact, reported by Miss C.)
AGENT.
I PERCIPIENT. OBJECT. RESULT.
11 present. MissR. A half-crown. "Like a flat button - bright
••• no partioular colour."
do. do. Four of spades. "A card. • • • four of clubs."
&idshe did notknowdifference
betweenspaElesand clubsafter-
wards.
do. do. An egg. "Looks remarkablylike an egg."
do. do. A penholder, with ,. A oolumn, with something'
thimble inverted bell-shaped turneddown on it."
on the end.
do. do. A small gold ear- " Round and bright • . • yellow
drop. . .• with loop to hang-it by:'
April 9, 1883,
PreBent: Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birchall, Miss R., Miss R-d, Miss J., Miss E., and
Miss C.
AGENT.
IPERCIPIENT. OBJECT. RESULT.
All present. Miss R. A gold cross, ..It is yellow • • • it is a cross."
do. do. A red ivory
knight.
chess
dC', do. Mr. B. A half-crown held
in this ex- up byMr. B. and
periment taken out of his
turned the pocketafterhehad .
percipient's plaoed the perci-
face to the pientasdescribed.
wall, and
away from
the rest.
do. do. A diamond of pink
silk onblacksatin
• • • It is red • • • broad at the
bottom • • • then very narrow
• •• then broad again at the
top. • •• It is a chessman."
Asked to name the piece said
she did not know the names of
the pieces.
" It is round. • • bright. • • no
particular colour • •• silver
• • • it is a piece of money • • .
larger than a shilling, but not
as large as • • • " The perci
pient was unable to say more.
"Light pink • • • cannot JUake
out the shape • • • seems mov
ing about." N.B. The object
Y
was held somewhat UDsteadil
by:&lr. G,
Digitized by Google
266
AGElI'T.
All present.
do.
Ezpcl'iments in Thougllt-Tl'allifel'cncc.
April' 13, 1883.
Prc.cnt: Miss R., Miss R-d, Miss J., and Mise C.
(Reported by Mise C.)
PERCIPIBNT. OBJICC'l'.
I RESULT.
MissR. Aleaf out ofalittle " Bright yellow square."
square book-
yellow paper.
do. A key. "A little tiny thing, with a
ring at oneend and a little flag
at the other like a toy flag."
Urged to name it, replied, " It
is very like a key."
April H, 1883.
Prcsent: Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birchall, Dr. carter, Mr. Steel, Miss R., Miss R--d.
Miss J., Miss E., and Mi88 C.
AGENT. PERCIPIENT. OBJICC'l'. RRSULT,
Mise R-d. Miss R. A horseshoe shape
of bla.ck silk on
No answer.
white satin.
Mise R. Miss E. Word" Via. " taken "V" Cat the first answer) •••
letter by letter. " I " (at the second answer) •••
" A " (at the second answer).
All present. Miss R. Alarge quarto book Colour named correctly, but not
boundinred cloth the shape. .
lIiss R-d. do. A key. "Akey...Answergiven instantly.
do. do. Mr. B.'s watch held " Is it bright • • • round • • • is
at some little dis- it a button1"
tance behind the
percipient.
lIr. Birchall. do. The percipient accurately local-
ised three pains in the agent.
Two imaginary(1) in the little
toe of the right foot, and in
the left eye and temple. A
wooden letter-clip being fixed
on Mr. B.'s Jeftlittlefingerwas
described as" a grip," but the
percipient placed it on the
left thumb.
_. -- .--
Digitized by Google
E:cpel'iments ilt TI/Ougli.t~Tl'a1tiferellce. 267
April 20, 1883.-
Prcscnt: Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Steel, Mr. Birchall, and the ladies before-mentioned.
A.GENT.
Miss E.
do.
Miss R.
do.
do.
All present.
do.
do.
do.
PERCIPIENT.
Miss R.
do.
Miss E.
do.
do.
Miss R.
do.
do.
do.
OBJECT. RESULT.
A sq~ of pink "Pink ••• square." Answered
silkonblacksatin. almost instantly.
Aringof whitesilk"Can'tsee it."
on blaoksatin.
Word, RES, letter Each letter was namedoorrectly
by letter. as it was set up oD. the first
trial
LetterQ.
LetterF.
Agiltcross held by
Mr. G.behind the
percipient.
"Q,"first answer.
"F," first answer.
"Is it a cross 7" Asked which
way it was held-the perci.
pient replied, "The right way,"
which was correct.
A yellow paper "Yellow ••• is it a feather?
knife. • • • It looks more like a knife
with a thin handle."
Mr. Steel's Ex·
changepassticket
(similar to a first-
class railway con·
tract ticket), ma-
roon ooloured
leather cover.
" Isitsquare1. • •longer oneway
than the other ••• a dark
reddish colour."
A pair of 8Ois80rs, "Is it silver ••• No-it is steel
standing open ••• It is a pair of 8Oissors
and upright. standing upright."
April 20, 1883.
Prclfcnt: Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birchall, Principal Rendall,M.A.,Mr. E. Davies, F.C.S.;
and Miss R-d, Miss J., Miss E., and Miss R.
A.GENT. PERCIPIENT.
Miss R. Miss E.
All present. Miss R.
do. do.
OBJECT.
Word "Puella,"
letter by letter.
RESULr·
"Q" named first ••• then" P."
The other letters bE'ginning
with the U named correctly at
the first a.nswer.
A diamond of blue "Is it a. diamond 7"
silk on blacksatin
A dark green circle "Is it dark greeD. 1 Oan't see
of silk on black the shape."
satin.
Digitized by Google
E{epe1'iments in TllOugltt-Tramiferellce.
Aprif25, 1883 (ClIntinuc(l).
Present: Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birohall, Principal Bendall, M.A., Mr. E. Dalies, F.C.S.;
and Miss R-d, Miss J., Miss E., an:! Miss R.
AGENT. I PEllCIPIENT.
--~--.
All present.
do.
MissE.
do.'
Mr.B.
MissR.
Miss R.
do.
do_
do.
do.
do.
do.
Miss E.
do.
OBJECT.
A terra·cotta meer-
schaum pipe,
glazed at the
mouthpiece; the
stem joined to
the bowl by a
carved bird'sclaw.
A small toy dog,
coloured light
brown, with tail
extended, and in
the act of leaping.
A dark crimson
apple, brought in
by Mr. B." who
had been out for
some objects that
had not been pre-
viously thought
of.
An orange.
RESULT.
"Is it yellow?.. does not
seem to be ail yellow. • • only
one part of it • • . Can't see
the shape well • . • all con-
fused ••• Do not know what
it is • • • seem to be a lot of
stems . • • It looks like this"
(tracing an imaginary curve
in the aU"), "with claws" (!;he
percipient here shaped her
fingers like claws).
"Is it green? • • • I can see
something, like with a lot of
branches ••• Can't oount them
-look teo many-like a long
stem-so-" (tracing a hori·
zontal line in the air) "with
things down" (tracing lines
downward). .1 Looks to be a
lighter colour now • . • not
green as at first, . . • but now
it looks like an animal Can't
see any more."
"Is it round? . . • a dark red
shade . • like a knob off a
drawer.•• It is an apple."
" It is not another apple •.. it
is an orange."
An electro-plate" Is it very bright •.. either
teaspoon. steel or silver .•• is it a
spoon? "
A bright steel door " It is something very bright-
key. and round ••• Is it a brooch?
••• Silver, I think."
A red ivory ball. " Is it yellow? "
A cross of yellow No answer.
silkonblack satin
The same. " Itlooks light • • • yellQw like.
Seems like a lot of rings ...
Is it round? •• Can't see any
shape."
Digitized by Google
Erzperimenls in TkougM-TI'Q1uifel'e/lce. 269
Ap70il 25, 1883 (c01Itinv6d).
Prt'Imt: Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birchall. Principal Rendall, M.A., Mr. E. Davies, F.C.S.;
and Miss R-d, Miss J., Miss E., and Miss R.
AGElIT. PERCIPIEIIT. Oll.JECT. RESULT.
---------1---------1-------------1-------------
Miss R.
Nene.
MissR-d.
do.
do.
c!o.
A.ll present.
HiBS R-d•.
All present.
Miss E.
Miss R.
placed in
the next
room "ith
Mr.B.
Miss R.
. do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
dc.
"Tom." All the "Are there three letters? ..•
letters fixed up to one is an 0.. • one is a
be read at once. 'stroky' letter .•• Is it T •••
oh I it's Tom."
A gold watch. Miss
R. was to describe
this from thenext
room-Mr. B.
taking her de·
scription down.
A jug, out out in
white cardboard.
A five-barred gate,
cut out in card·
board.
An electro plate
egg cup.
A toy cat, white,
with blackstripesl
radiating from
the back, which
wasdarklyshaded.
Six of diamonds.
Same.
A white toy bird.
A failure.
.. Cannot see any colour.. •
looksalllight ••• Is it a cup 1"
There is a handle • • • oh, it.
is a jug."
.. Same colour as the last • • •
seem to be lines across • . • do
not know what it ill ••• R88ms.
to be nothing but lines."
"Is it a narrow stem-going on
till it gets wide 1 • • • Is it
a wine glass 1--Seems bright
• •• seems to be silver."
" Is itverydark 1 • . Is ita card?"
• • • White all round • • • like-
witha black centre • • • Seems
to be crimped in and out.. Is.
there more than one colour in
the centre 1 Do not know
what it is--can't see any shape
at all."
"Is it yellow1"
" Is it square 1 • • A card. Red
• •• cannottellhowmanY8pots
· . • seemtobe two or three,one
over the other • • • Diamond8.
Cannot see the number. Card:.
seems moving about."
"Isitwhite1 •.• Seems to have
no shape." Then placed in con-
tact, first wit.h Principal Ren-
dall, second with Miss R-d,
but no nearer approach made.
The percipient had now been
subject to a very long examina-
tion.
Digitized by Google
270 E:epe1iment8 iii Thought-Transference.
Jlay 9, 1883•
.Present: Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birchall, Miss E., Miss R., MissJ., MiBB R-d, and
Miss C.
AGENT. PBlIClPIENT. OIl.JECT. I RESULT.
- - - - - - 1 - - - - - ' 1 - - - - - - - -
MiBB R-d. Miss R.
.All present. do•
do. do.
-do. do.
-do. MiBB E.
AwhiteivoryoheBB Reply came quiokly, "Is it
castle. white?" (Thenafter a longer
interval) "Is it square!-
little longer than wide.
(Another interval.) "No-
oan'ttell what it is ••. there's
something long and white."
(Another interval.) "No-
don't think I see it now,"--
N.B.-When shewn the obj~
said she had not seen it.
The percipient hav-
ing left the room,
it was arranged
that all should
think,with olosed
eyes, of an
orange.
AgiltOroFSthoughb
of as above.
A purse or mnal1
bag with steel
mountings and
steel handle. First
shewn to the
company, . and
then placed out
of sight and
thought of.
Word "Cordis."
'J he letters only
of the word were
placed before the
peroipient, in dis-
order---ehe being
required to form
the word. while
the oompany
thought of it.
No pioture was formed by Miss
R., who was not blindfolded,
but simply sat in the middle
of the room, and tried to form
the image of the objectthought
of by the rest.
.!.fter a brief interval. Miss R.
as above, said, "Is it apenon
A face ?" Then plaoedineon
tact with MiBB E. said, ,. Can
see nothing buta face • . • the
eyes and the features dis
tinotly."
" Is it something not quite
square? A little longer than ?
• • • Something bright in the
middle. Is it a purse! There's
something very bright at the
top • . . Has it anything else
over it? Don't know whai;
this is . • • whether it belongs
to the purse • . • I've lost it
• • • Is it like a bag? "
At the first moment MiBB E.
plaoed the letters in order
exoept I, when she seemed
puzzled, and gradually lost
trace of the word.
Digitized by Google
EXjJ(!)'iments in TltOurJld-Tran8ference. 271
May 9, 1883 (Mntinuctl).
Present: Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birchall, Miss E., Miss R., llIiss J., Miss R-d, and
Miss C.
AGENT. PBRCIPIENT.
All present. Miss E.
do. do.
do. Miss R.
do. do.
OBJECT. RESULT.
" Vogel," as above. Failed.
"Dot,"onlythought
of by the com-
pany; Miss E.,
blindfold, being
required to write
the word,
An oval gold
locket, with di-
agonal band. Ob-
ject first shewn-
thenonlythought
of. Miss R.absent
during arrange-
ments.
The company,
during Miss R.'s
absence, arranged
to will that she
should take a
locket out of Miss
E.'s pocket and
give it to Mr.G.
At first thought the word was
"Company," which was in her
head then. "Is first letter D 1"
(Told it was right, and to think
of the next letter.) "Not I,
is it 1" (No.) "Can't see
anything else. I can'tdo any-
thing more."
"Is it a light colour 1" (Mr. G.:
" That will do to begin with.")
" Is it long and narrow?"
(Mr.G.: "Will leave you togoon
withoutsayinganything-will
only think of it intently.")
" Looks to me something long
and bright-like a knife."
(Uter a time contact with
Miss E. was proposed and then
Miss R. continued.) "Are you
all thinking 1 At first it
looked like a knife. Now it
looksround-likealotofrings."
(Miss R-d. placed in contact
also with Miss E.) "Now I've
got itatlast. It's a sandglass."
Did not succeed at first. The
locket was then placed on Miss
E.sothat all couldsee it(except,
of course,Miss R.who wasblind-
folded.) After a few moments
Miss R took the locket and gave
it to Mr. G., putting it into his
side coat pocket. Miss R. could
give no explanation why she
failed to remove the locket
when out of sight. The locket
was in Miss E.'s jacket pocket
and to get it Miss R. would
have had to stoop. Said she
did fEel a strong desire to bend
or stoop, and felt a chair, as if
she were desirous to sit down.
igitized byGoogl
272 Ezperiment8 in Thought.Tran8ferellce.
Nay 9, 1883 (contintleti).
PrCSI'nt: Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birchall, Miss E., Miss R., Mi~s J., Miss R-d, and
Miss C.
__
A_GB_II_T_._I PBRCU'IBNT.
All present. Miss R.
OBJBOT.
To remove Mr. B.'s
spootaolea and
place them on
Miss E. The com'l
pany willing this.
..11ay 16, 1883.
RESULT.
A. deoided success. Miss R~ 88
8OOn8ollshe re-entered theroom,
advanced slowly across IIDd
touching Mr, B, quietly re-
moved the glasses from his
eyes, and handed them to Miss
E. on the opposite side of the
room•
Prl'scnt: Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birchall, Miss C., Miss R-d, Miss E., Miss R., and
Miss J.
AGEIIT. l'BRCIPIENT. OBJECT. RESULT.
All present. !Iiss E. A. triangle of blue "Blue, is it 1 Rather dark . , .
silkon blaeksatin, looks like • • • straight at the
thrown over the bottomand going uplikethat"
back of chair in (shewing two converging lines
front of perei. in the air),
pieut.
do. do. A. brightyellow ob· "Seems brighter than the other
long of silk on • • • gold like • • • Is it a yel.
same. N.B. - A. low 1 • • • Canary colour"(Mr.
fray of yellow G.: "Quite right-now the.-
threads hung shape 7") "Is it square1 Yet
from the silk It looksashadelongerthisWlY"
shape. (pointing horizontally) "than
the other." (Mr. G. here asked
Miss E. if she could see aDY'
thing else about it. Replied:
Ii Yea. • • something bright
· •• a pin at the comer."
(N.B.-The fray of threadswas
most conapicuoUB and was ex·
pected to be seen.)
do. Min R. A. paleblue feathc:-. "Is it pale 7 It looks like II
leaf; but it aan't be a leaf
• • • looks like a feather curled.
Is it a feather 1"
Digitized by Google
Experiments ill Thougllt-Trullsference. 273
.Vay 16, 1883 (continfU!(l).
PI'CSCltt: !Ir. Guthrie, lIr. Birohall, Miss C., Miss R-d, Miss E., Miss R., and
Miss J.
AGENT.
.All present.
--
do
do.
do.
: PlInCIPIKNT.
i
Miss E•
do.
do.
Mis'lR.
OD.lEcr.
An artifioial Mar-
guerite daisy, be-
hind percipient,
with three sta11Cs
hanging down.
Fivo of spades.'
Thought of only
by the oompany,
and not seen.
Three of diamonds,
previously shewn
for a moment to
the oompany
only.
A name thought of
- "Bacon," as
shewn over shop-
door in Bold
~treet.
RESULT.
"Don't soo any colour .. Looks
white ••• like a white 0;
black in the middle. Is the
middle raised a little bit 1 •• '.
Doesn't look like a dog, but
seems to ha.ve branohes. It's
like a flower. Centre seems
dark. • • might be brown. . •
might be one of Miss R.'s
daisies." (Asked how many
branohes, said, "Threo.'")
After a brief spaoe, Miss E.
seemed unable to sooanything,
when Mr. G. observed it was a
card that WQ.S thought of, and
Miss E. immediately replied:
" I was jnst going to ask if it
was a card. I thought ,it was
a card when you told the oom-
pany to think of the object as
a whole." Finally gave it up,
saying she would not be able
to got it.
Same objeot triec;l a second timo,
on same oonditions. Miss E.
simply asked, "Is it a face? "
Xotc.-When the objeot has
not been first shewn, but is
only thought of, success seems
to depend upon the vividness
ofeach person's mental picture.
" Is it an alphabet letter 1..
(Mr. G.: "If it does not come
to you, don't keep it on too
long. It's a 081d again.")
Another pause, after whioh
Miss E. said, "I think I shall
have to give it up."
"Is it a word of six letters 1"
(" Say the word as a whole-
not by letters.") "Can see a
word of about six letters, but
it is not very distinot. No-
I don't think I'll get it."
N.B.-It afterwards appeared
that some of the "agents"
had thought of the name as
printed on bills, others as gilt
letters on a black ground, as
over the windows.
Digitized by Google
274 E:eperiments ilJ' ThougM-TraJl~fere;lce.
Nay 16, 1883 (eonti1l'Uetl).
Prelent : Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birchall, Miss C., Miss B-d, Miss E., Miss R., and
Miss J.
AGENT. ,'PBRCIPIBNT.
All present. Miss R.
do. do.
do. do.
do. do.
OBJECT. BBlIULT.
--~------I-----------
"Adam." Each "Something with an lI."
thinker requested
to pronounce it in
imagination.
Proverb, " Time
fiies." This was
only thought of;
but a proverb was
openly named as
the subject of
thought.
"Howdoththelittle
busy bee."
Nil desperandum.
"Has it only two words 1 Is it
I Time flies' 1" The answer
came with almost marvellous
quickness-on the instant
nearly.
} ..... tul.~
For the next experiment an historical scene was proposed; and it was
agreed to think of "Queen Elizabeth walking "-with an event to follow.
The event intended by Mr. Guthrie was Queen Elizabeth, surrounded by her
courtiers, walking to her barge. Coming to a muddy place she heeiiates,
and Walter Raleigh steps forward and spreads his cloak for her to tread upon.
These details were not given by Mr. G. to the other thinkers. All that was done
was to write the short sentence given above on a slip of paper, which Mr. G.
held in his hand as he went round the company. It appeared, however, on
inquiry afterwards, that all surmised what was coming, and thought of the full
scene. There were two trials. At the first trial, Miss R., without contact, said:
"The letter M; something moving backwards and forwards, like a lot of people
walking." (Mr. G.: "Distinguish one of them.") "Can't see one ••• letter M
distinctly like two archways." In contact with Miss R-d she said, I. A lot of
small faces moving about ••• can't distinguish anyone in particular." At the
second trial, Miss R. ~id, ..I see two archways. I see a lot of people. Oh! it
is a picture. It is Queen Elizabeth walking from her palace to the barge ; and
Sir Walter Raleigh spreads his cloak for her to walk upon."
Hay 23, 1883.
The reoord of this meeting has been lost. Professor Barrett, the ReT.
E. H. Sugden (Bradford), Hr. Guthrie, and Mr. Birchall were present. The
experiments were nearly all failures; but after the "subjects" (Miss R. and
Miss E.) had become familiarised with the presence of the strangers by some
pin·finding experiments of Mr. Sugden's, their capacity improved. The evening,
however, had become so advanced that it was time to go home before much
had been acoomplished.
~i9itized by GoogIe
E:rperimfmts in TllOught-Tl'anife,·ence. 27f5.
Hay 80, 1888.
P"1'8cnt: Mr. Quthrie, Mr. Bircball, Mias R-d, and Mias R.
AGENT. PERCIPIENT. OBJECT. EESULT.
----.- .• -
All present. MissR. A child's toy, Mias R. said: "I see red and
brightly ooloured yellow, and it is darker at 011&
red, yellow, and end than the other. It is like
blue, and moving a flag moving about. . • it is.
up and down on a moving. • • now it is opening
stick, by means of and shutting like a pair of
which the arms scissors."
and legs were al-
!
ternately drawn
together and se-
parated.
I
_. In another experiment, it was agreed to think of a scene, and Mias R. was
"'requested to leave the room. In her absence, it was decided to think of Cinderella.
the Prince kneeling before hEIr, trying on the glass slipper. On Miss R.'s return,
she was blindfolded and isolated. Presently sheappeared to be very muchamused
at something, and laughed, but oould not be induced to tell what she saw. After
protracted waiting, she would not say anything, and other experiments were pro-
ceeded ,with. Afterwards, the experiment was renewed, M,r. B. kneeling down
before one of the ladies, to represent the scene. Miss R. again displayed much
amusement, and finally asked, "Is it Cinderella 1" She was then asked what she
had seen, and replied, .. I saw a little girl in rag" sweepingup the hearth, and the
fairy godmother looking in at the door." Asked if this was what she saw before,
said, ., Yes, but I did not know who it was." Asked why she did not tell us what
she saw, she said, " I could not suppose you would think of any picturelikethat.'·
When told of the actual picture thought of, she said she had no idea of it. The
picture she had described was very distinct ;-she saw the little girl sweeping up
the hearth, and the old woman looking in at the door, but she did not know who
they were.
As it was not convenient to carry on the experiments during the summer, no
more sittings were held till the end of A11lJt1Bt. The young ladieII reported that
they did not try any further experiments among themselves. The first meeting
in the autumn was held as follows :-
August 80, 1888.
P"CIBflt: Mr. Guthrie, Miss B-d, Miss J., Miss Ro, and Hiss E.
There was not the usual amount of interest taken by any of the persons
present, and the experiments were nearly all failures. Some experiments on the
" transmission of tastes " were, however, successful.
One incidentisspecially noteworthy. An outline in white paper of a teapot
was shewn on a black ground. Miss R. sa'd, "I see a white ground with
aomething dark and long and indistinct in the middle of it. Oh I there is a line
of yellow all round it. Itis aquare, longer one way than the other," and (then ina
puzzledmanner) " It can't be a window." Halfway through the description Mr.
G. noticed thatshe wasd~oribing a gold-framed and glazed fashion plate, a little
distance above the object, and he removed the object.
&Jlt~mb~r 26, 1888.
p,.elent: Mr. Guthrie, Miss B-d, Miss C., Miss B., and Miss E.
A number of experiments were tried. There were more suoee88eB than on the
30th August, butstill a great many failures. First thfl distinguishing of shades
of colours was tried. Some of them were described with grsat aoouracy, but as
they were allselected on acoount of their peculiar shlldes, in order to test aoeuraoy
of colour perception beyond the mere naming of the vivid primary colcurs, the
Digitized by Google
276 Experiments in T1tougM-Tl'al/,~.fereilce.
descriptions might ot might not be considered accurate. Further, the colours
having been selected by daylight, did not look the same by gaslight, and the
descriptions given under such circumstances were not applicable w~ seen by
daylight. It was also thought that the colours of other objects in the room might
mingle with the colour thought of, in the way of colour composition, and that
the various "willers" might thus see the colours differently. These experiments
were abandoned. after takiug up a good deal of time.
Mr. Guthrie then tried the reception ot pains, but failed. In contact with
Miss R. (blindfolded) he tried to convey to her by concentration of thought and
silent movement of the lips the name" Peter" but failed. In the same contact
Mr. G. then directed Miss R. to do as he did, and moving his right (and disen-
gaged) arm, Mi8B R. made a fair imitation ofthe movement.
In the same experiment without contaCt, Mr. G. standing behind MiBB R.,
moved his closed fists round each other. Mi8B R. did the same in a faint, un-
decided manner.
A taste experiment was next tried. In one room Mi8B C. reported that Miss
R., in contact with MiBB R-d, who had carraway seeds in her mouth, said, "I
taste biscaits-something in biscuits-it tastes of carraway seeds."
Similarly, Mr. G. being in contact with Miss E. in another room, the latter
said, " I taste something sour. Now it tastes like spice.••• Is it cloves7 ••• Ia
it carraway seeds 7" Mr. G. waittd a short time to see if anything more would~ -
come, but Miss E., getting tired, said, "Oh, I can taste nothing else."
MiBB E. said she would like to try the Bank note experiment. Mr. G. accord-
ingly undertook to think of five succeSBive numbers. Without writing the
figures down, he took Mi8BE.'s hand and thought of 3. The subject said, "Is it
three 7" After recording this Mr. G. pictured to himself the figure 7. The answer
was "Is it 17" Nol "Then it is 7." After recording this Mr. G. pictured
6. The answer was •• Is it 4 7" No I "Is it 6 7" Yes. Mr. G. felt his
own power of conoentration fail, the strain having been very severe. He en-
deavoured to form a mental picture of 8, but it would not come. Miss E. said, "I
see a blank-is it 0 7" No I "Is it 17" Nol "Is it u" No I This was evi-
dently guessing, ar.d the experiment stopped. l'Iaving made the record Mr. G.
thought of 1, and the reply was "Is it 4? "
Mr. G. then trie:l the same experiment with Miss R., but she saw nothing.
OCtobC1' 3, 1883.
PrucI.t: Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birchall, Mr. R. C. Johnson, Mi8B R., Mi8B E., and
MiBB R-d.
MiBB R. blindfolded ~d in contact with Mr. B. Mr. G. pinched the forefinger
of Mr. B.'s left hand with a Bmall pair of pincers. No perception.
Mr. B., still in contact with Hiss R., imagined a neuralgic pain on the left
cheek and temple. Answer:" I feel a pain down the left side of my face."
Mr. G. in oontaot with Miss R. and HiBB E., both blindfolded. Mr. G. had
previously left the room andput some ground coffee in his mouth. Answer from
Hiss E.: "Something hot, like a kind of spice."
Then, Mr. G., being in sole oontact with HiBB R., the latter said, "Is it a kind
of biscuit 7 I'msure it is either fiour or oatmeal It tastes betweena biscuit and
oatmeal and spice-like a dry biscuit. Still all the time I get that taste." :Mr.
G. again left the room and took salt, and on re-entering the room jokingly ob-
served that he was going to give MiBB E. some poison. Miss E. in contact with
Mr. G. and Mi8B 'B.~. She hesitated to 8.Il8wer, because of the above remark,
and, after contaot was broken, answered almostimm.ediately, "Salt."
Miss E. seated apart in a chair and blindfolded. The letter N on a. square
white card, placed on the back of theohsval glaSB behind her. "J, is it7 Idon't
see anything at all."
Mi8B R. alone, in the ohair, blindfolded. A circle of scarlet satin on white
ground. ." I can see a lot of light-white, I think it ~cin't know what it is.
There seems to be something in the oent~on't know what it is. Seems to be
such a lot of white." (Mr.G.: "Yes, that is all right. Nowtellnswhatisinthe
c3ntre7") Contactbeing suggested, Mr. G. took Hiss R.'s hand. " Is there some-
thing pink in the oentre-foes it go aaro8B 7" (Pointing horizontally, not clear
as to shape.)
Digitized by Google
Experiments in T{tOugltt-Tran~ferefice. 2i7
Octobel' 3, 1883 (eontillued).
Present: Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birchall, Mr. R. C. Johnson, MiBB R-d, Miss R., and
Miss E.
AGBNT.
All present.
do.
do.
do.
da.
do.
do.
PERCIl'lENT. I OBJIiCT.
MiBB n. --IMr.G.'sgOldWa~h,
suspended by a
hair or silk guard
on the face of
the same white
ground-the back
of the watch
fronting.
do.
do.
do.
do.
lIliss E.
do.
Letter L.
Letter Q.
A knife, with the
threc blades open.
One of the framed
and glazedfashion
pictures. A lady
in full costume.
Frame, black and
gold.
Lettcr B.
Letters SO.
RESULT.
" I still see a lot of white-and
something hanging .•. looks
like a letter. . . something of
the shape of an A .•. looks
like a locket or a watch."
N.B.-The guard of the watch
and the watch itself hung
against the white surface,
thus- I't I
"Is it a letter? L."
"It is either an 0 or a Q."
"Is it something thio way?"
(tracing horizontally.) "Is it
a knife I Open... pointing
up., • , three blades."
"Can't see .• something wbite
• • • something in the middle
• • . with a lot of colours . • •
Is there anything dark all
round the edge?.. 8eems
like a black line • . . and then
a white •.. with something
in the middle .•. Can't see
distinctly what is in the
middle·. . . There's more than
one colour ... seems to be a
lot down at the bottom . . .
then seems to go up narrower
· .. No . " I don't see it a
bit diptinctly." (Mr. G. now
placed himself in contact.) ..Is
there anything written at the
top? . . . Looks to me some.
thing like a picture, but I
can't tell what it is."
"A letter, is it? I see B."
N.B.-Was not at all aware
what objectwould be presentcd
-i.e., the kind of object ...
sheasked,but wasnotinformed.
"Are there two letters? .. , one
looks like an 0 , . • another
T" (thislastonlysuggestively,
as if she were thinking aloud).
"I see the 0, but the other is
not so distinct . . . is it 8?
I think the 8 is first."
V
igitized byGoogl
278 Experiment8 in TltOugltt-Traniference.
October 3, 1883 (Mntinued).
Prl'8l'1tt: Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birchall, Mr. R. C. Johnson, Miss R., Miss E., and
MissR~.
AGENT. PERCIPIENT. OBJECT. RESULT.
All present. Miss E. Letters G D U. "Seem to be three letters .•.
G .•. is one Dl Is the nex
letter V? ••• No-can't see
the other letter-got mixed
. . . U !" Asked then to tak
a view of all the letters in a
group, answered: "Is one
letter over the others 1 ••• G
-D is the next letter."
do. do. A key shewn to the "A key, is it 1"
company in the
absenceol theper-
cipient, who left
theroomincharge
of Mr. J., and re-
turned with him
blindfolded. 'l'he
object was with-
drawn from ob-
servation on her
return.
do. do. A plain gold cross ., Is it a gold cross I"
thought ot, but
do. Miss R.
do. do.
the object not un-
der observation.
N.B.-The cross
was not there in
fact.
Mr. J.'s gold chain "·Is itachain ... a watch chain
and pendant (only hanging from a pocket; with
thought of, not a little pendant at the end of
seen). it?"
A pine apple, with
the tuft of leaVeil
atthe top. Simply
imagined. (only
thought of, not
seen).
"No idea ••• can't see." Then
when about 00 give up, and
being askedwhethershe Wished
to give it up, replied, quickly:
"Is it a fruit?. • I was
thinking of a pine apple."
Experiment8 in Thought-Tranajerence. 279
October 10, 1883.
Present: Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birchall, Miss R-d, Miss R., and Miss E. Mr.
R. C. Johnson also present at the last experiment of this sitting.
AGENT. PERCIPIENT. OBJECT. RESULT.
------
All present. l\Ii~s E. Letter A fixed npon " Is it a oross 7 • • • is it T 1 •••
chevalgla.ssframe L ••• Oh I I saw a white L."
behind her.
do. do. Letter C. (In about thirty seconds)
answered "C."
do. Miss R. A bla.ok anohor "Arethere two letters 7 •• Can't
on a small white seeanythingdistinctly." (After
card about 2iin. a few seconds,deoidedly) "NoI"
by 2in.,p1a.oed be-
hind the subject
on theback of the
glass frame.
do. do. The five of clubs. "Is there anythingred about it!
Can't see anything to-night as
I usually do."
[It was at this period that the very sucoeseful experiments in the reproduo- .
tion of diagrams were commenced, a full desoription of which is deferred to the
next number of the Proceedings.]
October 24, 1883.
Present: Mr. Birchall, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Johnson, with Miss R-d and the two
subjects.
AGENT. PERCIPIENT. : OBJECT. Jl.ESULT.
1\Ir.G.(others Miss E. No.8 imagined. "No.8."
were notat-
tending to
the object.)
do. do. No.2 imagined. "No.2."
do. do. Letter F imagined. "D "-then "J;" but Mr. G.
do do.
do. Miss R.
said that he kept ohanging the
letterinvoluntarily into Mand
then back again to F
Letter Wimagined. Answer:" S."
"Patriok"
gined.
ima- " Is it Peter or Patrick ,"
N.B.-The answer was given
in less Uum a minute.
Digitized by GoJgie
280 Experiment8 ill TI,ougkt.Tran8jerellce.
OCtObC7' 24, 1883 (continued).
Prcscnt: Mr. Birchall, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Johnson, Miss R-d, Miss R., and
Miss E.
AGE."'IT.
Mr.G.
do.
do.
PERCIPIENT. I
Miss R.
Miss E.
MissR.
OBJECT.
"Jemima."
"Joseph."
" Margaret."
RESULT.
"Is it Lawrence? No-it looks
like a long name, but I can't
see what it is a bit ... No .•
Angelo, is it 1" (All were
now shewn the name and
called upon to think.) ••• "It
begins with 0. J . . • Oh I I
see a J." (Mr. G.: "Do yon
see the letters as 0. whole 1")
"I'll try to look at the letters.
Ohl I can see five or six let-
ters, but can't get the name."
(Mr. G.: "Then you see the
letters. Well, take it letter by
letter. You've named the first
letter; now,what is thenext? ")
" Is it E? " (Mr. G..: II Rij!'ht.
Now the third letter.") "M."
(" Right-the fourth letter? ")
"I." (" Right-next letter 7")
"Two more. like CA." (" A
is right; now look at the last
letter but one.") "E, I think."
N.B.-The subject had no idea
of the name, or of what letters
had passed through her mind,
so as to get the name.
" Mary "-failure.
"Is the beginning of it C1"
(All were now shewn the name
and invited to think.) " Is it
}label? Ob, it's Maggie or
Margaret."
NO'l:cmbe7' 1, 1883•
.PrC8ent: Prof. Herdman, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birchall, Miss R-d, Miss E., and
Miss R.
AGENT. PERCIPIENT.
Mr.G. Miss E.
OBJECT.
Letters R L on a
card, set up be-
hind percipient,
who was first
blindfolded as
usual.
RESULT.
"Are there two letters ... is
S onel ., . L is one ., ..
R .•• "
Digitized by Google
--
E:qJeriment8 in Thougkt-Tm1U1ference. 281
NOf!cmber 1, 1883 (cofttin'IWd).
Pl'e.~(Jnt: Prof. Herdman, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birchall, Miss R-d, Miss E., and
Miss R.
AGENT. PERCIPIE!lT:
All present. MissE.
do. Miss R.
do. do.
do.
OBJEC'r.
Letters
K
QB
setup ashe~1aced.
RESULT.
,
" Is there more than one letter 1
Two, I think • •• S 1 No
• • • Oh I dear, that S will
bother me." (Mr. G.: "We'll
take the letters separately if
you like."), •• "K?" ("Right,
now the next one?") "P ..•
looks like an 0 . . . might
beOorQ •• thenB." (Mr. G.:
.. Right • . . what position
are the letters in-can you
tell1") "No, I can't." (Hr.
G.: "Well, look at the letters
as a whole.") • • • "Does K
come first 1 then the 0 or Q
· • . then B • • • Are they all
one after the other?" (Mr. G.:
" I want you to tell me that.It)
• .. "Is the B oved ••• I
can't see distinctly."
Mr.G. first observed Aftersome three or four minutes
that he would try the name was said to be
and think of a "Sarah." This was wrong.
name.
"Lorenzo."
"Zion."
No answer came for a time.
(Mr. G.," Will you try and
spell it f") " Isit J 7" ("No.")
• •• "L 1"(" Right. Now the
next1") "01" ("Right.") "G1••
F?" ••• (Mr. G.: "You must
·not guess; you must take the
impression. Is it a name you
are acquaintedwithl ")•• "R1"
C" Right. Next letter 1") .. D."
("No.") .• "E •. N." ("Right.")
... "Is it S or Z?" ••• C"Right.")
.,. "N ••• M ••• OorQ.
Don't know what I spelled."
At the end of about thirty
seconds and no reply coming,
Mr. G. asked, "Has the word
come to youl" ••• "No."
(" Then we'll take it letter by
letter.") "Is it Z again? i,
("Right.") "I." ••• (" Right.
Next Jetter.") •• • "0."
(" Right.") ••• "P 1 M 1" ••
("No.") "N."
Digitized by Google
282 E:cperiment8 in ThougM-Transjel'elice.
NOf)ember I, 1883 (c016tinved).
Present: Prof. Herdman, Mr. Gutllrie, Mr. Birchall, Miss R-d., Miss E., and
Mias R.
AGBNT. PBIICIPIlDlT. OBJBCT.
All present. do. " Polonius."
NOf)ember 7,1883.
lUISULT.
"I've got a confused idea of 0'8
and P's ; but don't know what
it is. Is it Apollo 7 No, 1-
can't get it." (Mr. G.: " Well
will you spell itZ") ••• "P."
("Right.") "0." .. ("Right.")
"L." •. rRight.") ••• "N."
("Right.' Mr. G. passed over
the 0, &8 it had been missed by rJ
Miss R. ; but no one noticedit.
He continued, "Now the next
after the N.") • • • "I."
("Right.") ..... S ••• U."
Pre8e'llt: Mr. Steel, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birchall, Miss R-d, Miss E., and Miss R.
AGENT. PEKCIPIENT. OBJBCT.
All present. Mi88E. Letter N.
Mr. G. do. Letters T F.
do. do. Letter Q.
lUISULT.
"Is it a. letter 7 • • • H? • . • I
can't see anything distinctly.'
(Mr. G. here placed h'
>
in contact.) . •• "L." ••
(Givenup.) N.B.-No previous
nd
intimation given of what ki
of object would be set up.
"Is it another letter 7 I
y
seem toseeJ ••. butnotver
distinctly, I see so many .•
y." (UNo.") •• " Don't think I
shall get it • • • there seem to
be two or three letters." • . •
(Given up.)
• • "S." ("No.") .• "Ob,dearme."
("We shall have to paBS you
over.") •.• "I think so." MiBB
R-d now joined with Mr. G.
in contact, but no result came.
Digitized by Google
E:cpCI'Iment8 in TllOugM-T1·amfcrence• 283
.iYO'/Jember 7, 1883 (continued).
P/'ele'1tt : Mr. Steel, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Birchall, Miss R-d., Miss E., and Miss R.
AGEN~. PERCIPIKNT. OBJECT. RESULT.
All present. MissR. A reddish coloured Some three or four minute
vase or urn cut elapsed before the answer
out in cardboard. came. "Is it a colour? •• '.
B
I seem to see some green about
it." (Mr. G. here placed in
contact.) •• "Oh, Mr.Guthrie,
I seem to see such a lot of
colours." (Mr. G.: "Well,
never mind the colours; take
the form of it.") • • • (Given
up.)
Mr. G. and do. Ateapot cut out in After about five minutes the
MissR-d. silver coloured percipient said, " Is there
cardboard. anything bright ••• likesilver1
• . • Is it a teapot1"
Digitized by Google
284 Appendix to tile Report on lIlesmerism. [July 18t
III;
APPENDIX TO THE REPORT ON MESMERISM.
In the Report printed abovet we were mainly occupied with one
fundamental question-the question of the reality of the mesmeric force;
in other wordst of the reality of the specific facts of Mesmerismtwhether
mingled with, or standing beyond and distinct from, those of Hypnotism.
As time goes on we shall hope to deal with some further departments of
the subject, including the vexed questions (often called, par excellence,
the higher phenomena) of clairvoyn.ncet phreno-mesmerismt mesmeric
healing, and mesmeric effects produced without either fixation, manipula."" ,
tion, or expectancy. But one fact remains which concerns the lower
phenomena as much as'the higher, and which is of such fundamental
importaIlCo in the studYt whether of Hypnotisin or of Mesmerism, that
the statement of it (though involving references to future topics) will
find its most fitting place here. It is a fact on which Dr. Elliotson,
one of the acutest minds that ever applied itself to these subjects,
frequently insisted, but which both mesmerists and anti-mesmerists,
though for different reasons, have often been tempted to ignore.
Briefly it is this: that (with certain exceptions to be hereafter
explained) the more startling effects of Hypnotism and Mesmerism may
be matched with occurrences, either closely parallel or absolutely
identical, which have occurred spontaneously; while at the same time,
. the rarity and the pathological character of their spontaneous
occurrence are entirely in a.ccordance with that theory of ezceptional
nervous affection which has throughout recommended itself to us.
The fanatical mesmerist is apt to keep this spontaneous occurrence in
the background, as tending to impugn the unique character of the
influence which he is celebrating. The anti--nesmerist begins by
relegating these mysterious phenomena to the scanty chapters on
" Somnambulism" which form one of the weakest points in the
medical conspectus of man; and then, when he is confronted with
these same phenomena as produced by Mesmerism, he exclaims thatthey
are incredible, and dismisses them as inconsistent with established
physiological laws. Now it is perfectly true that some of these
phenomena do sound incredible ; that they cannot possibly be fitted
into our present conceptions of the way in which the nervous systenl
acts. But it is not Mesmerism which is responsible for them, but
Nature; that is to say, Mesmerism offers a special way of producing
phenomena which have been spontaneously produced in ways wholly
Digitized by Google
-..
1883.J .AjJjJendi.c to tlte Report on lJIestnel·is1n•. 285
unknown to us for centuries before Mesmer was born. To prove this
in detail .(0. task which we hope hereafter t() attempt) would carry us
far beyond our present limits.· We must content ourselves here with
referring the reader to the list of authorities given below, a list
which, though by no means exhaustive, contains, we think, full justifica-
tion of all that we shall at present advance.*
What, then, are the main modifications of ordinary waking con-
sciousness, which spontaneous sleep-wakers (to use a term of convenient
vagueness) have been observed to present 1 The rough analysis, which
is all that we shall here attempt, shews us that these modifications
extend irregularly over one or more of five regions.
Confining oursel~'es to broad distinctions of external manifestation,
we find obvious changes occurring in (1) sensibility to pain; (2) sensory
and supersensuous perception; (3) the current of consciousness;
(4) memory; and (5) emotional disposition or character. In each of
these particulars we are familiar with certain changes induced by
states of nutrition, by expectant attention, by narcotics, by disease.
But in each case the spontaneous sleep-waking state will be found to
carry us on by an unbroken series from changes which are familiar and
in a certain sense explicable, to changes which altogether transcend the
bounds of our systematised knowledge.
Thus, as regards sensibility to pain, we have first the ordinary
somnambulist, who shews much the same bluntness of sensibility as
n man shews when deeply absorbed in reverie, but who may nevertheless
be awakened by a sharp blow or the touch of a hot object. Then
wo come to cases such as that of Professor Haycock, who "would preach
in his sleep so steadfastly that no pinching would wake him;" t and
then to such cases as that of Mrs. Griffiths, a patient of Dr. Lingen's t
who was repeatedly laid up with severe scalds, caused by her unfortunate
habit of cooking her husband's dinner in the somnambulic state and
'" Sec the collections of somnambulic and other cases contained in the follow-
ing works :-Dr. Abercrombie on the lntelll,ctuaZ Powers; Dr. Azam in Rente
Seientijiq'w for 1876, 1877, and 1879; Dr. Belden's ACCO'Ilnt of Jane Ridel'; Dr.
Erasmus Darwin's Zoo1t01IIia ;~Dr. Dyce in ErZinhll1'uk PMloaopllicaZ PranaactillnB,
1822 j Dr. Dufay in RCfJ'UO &iL'nUjiqu.f!, 1876; Dr. Elliotson in his Phy,ioZoUY
and the Z"iBt, vol. iv.; Dr. Macnish's PlliZ0811J'ky {II Steip; Dr. Mayo's Trtltlill
contaiMd in Popula,' Supe1'atitiona; M. Taine's TraitiJ de l'lnteZZigeMe; Dr.
Trousseau's Le~lInB Cliniquea; M. Ribot on Di,easeB 01 Jllemory ; and Professor
Wienholt's Leeture, on Sonl7la111,buZian. Dr. Herbert Mayo, F.R.S., was ProfeBBOr
of Anatomy and Physiology in King's College, and of Comparative Anatomy in
the Royal College of Surgeons, London. We quote from the third edition of his
book.
t Macnish, p. 170.
:I: ZOiRt, voL iv. p. 181.
Digitized by Google
286 .Appendix to tke Report 0# Mesmerism. [July 18,
then throwing the boiling water over her legs, without any perception
of having done so till she spontaneously "came to herself." In' this
case, and in others like it, there was no indication whatever of nervous
lesion in the ordinary st!l.te, nothing to account for this idiopathic and
fitful insensibility to the severest pain.
Again, in the matter of the acuteness of sense-perception, we are
familiar with marked exaltations of sensibility in fever, or under the
influence of certain drugs. It does not surprise us to find that the
sense of muscular balance in the somnambulist is often so acute that
he can pass without tottering along roofs wholly impassable to his
waking feet. It does not surprise us to find that he can at times hear-
BOunds which are too faint for other ears to catch. But we begin: to 00
staggered when 'Ve come to a metastasis of function, when the patient,
deaf to all shouting at her ear, hears a whisper at the pit of her
stomach." And as regards vision, the sleep-waker's condition offers 0.. .....
series of puzzles. We are of course prepared to believe that the eye
may- become sensitive to amounts of light far lower than are normally
perceptihle. Wc hear, therefore, without incredulity of the sleep-
waker who threads her needle under the table, or blows out the candle
at midnight before she wnshes up the dishes, under the impression that
~he had just had breakfast, and that it is wasteful to bum lights in
broad daylight. But the observers of sleep-waking eases go on to insist
on what seems a quite needless stumbling-block; they tell us that the
eyes of the sleep-wakers are not open but shut, with pupils upturned, or
that if the eyes are open, at any rate there is " no speculation" in them,
but a mere vacant glare. If we reply that this must be a mistake of
observation, they go on to oTerwhelm us with casest where the patient
reads with the palm of her hand, or with the back of her neck, or
criticises the moves of chess-players sitting immediately behind her.
Nor is even this all. Professor Mayo became convinced, or, as he
expresses it, "resigned himself to the belief," that these spontaneously
arising powers sometimes attain' a degree so extraordinary that we
prefer to describe it in his own words :-t "The patient manifestsnew
perceptive powers. She discerns objects all around her and through
any obstructions, partitions, walls, or houses, and at an indefinite
distance. She sees her own inside, as if it were illuminated,
and can tell what is wrong in the health of others. The ordi-
nary obstacles of space and matter vanish to her." It is obvious
that the claims of clairvoyance when induced by Mesmerism can
• Dr. PtStetin's case; Mayo, p. 113, &c.
t Mr. Bulteel's case, Dr. Petetin's cases, Dr. Delpit's case, in Dr. Mayo's col-
lection alone.
t Ptpu,lar SuperstititlnR, p. 111.
Digitized by Google
1883.] ..Appendix to tke-'ile:pol't on Mesmerism, 287
scarcely go beyond the powerS here ascribed to spontaneous Of
idiopathic trance.
To proceed to the next point. The mesmerist, when he claims that,
he can limit the stream of consciousness, and bestow a temporary
dominance on some one idea or emotion, only asserts that he can
produce a phenomenon,which admittedly occurs already both in
apparent health and in disease. The power of suggestion begins in the
condition of ordinary dream before it attains its intenser degree in
somnambulism. The sleeping officer follows with growing anxiety the
description of a battle whispered to him by his friends, till at last he
jumps from his bed and runs headlong away." The sleeping beauty,
whose ingenious lover has obtained permission to breathe his own name
in her ear, is melted at last into tenderness for him by the strange.
recurrent dream. In more, advanced stages the sleep-waker acts out.
-ms.vision among waking men; he fancies himself employed in some
habitual duty, answers only the remarks which bear on this supposed
employment, and neglects all external stimuli which he cannot,
co-ordinate with his dominant train of ideas.
It is possible that we may ultimately be able to trace an unbroken
line of progression from the voluntary and transient hypertrophy of
a mental image which is necessary for the thinker who wishes it to-
stand forth distinctly in his brain, to the degenerative hypertrophy of
a group of such images which renders them permanently dominant in.
consciousness and impossible to dislodge. . And the key to such
inquiries seems to lie in the 'somnambulic state-midway between
idiopathic reverie and monomania-and combining an hallucination as
profound as the lunatic's with a capacity of recall as sudden as the shock
which arouses a Socrates to the perception that he is not in the ideal
world, but before Potidrea. The great drawback is the rarity of these
cases of instructive trance; and when the mesmerist claims to repro-
duce them, he is merely offering to reproduce by empirical means an
__ observed abnormal state, which physiologist and psychologist alike may
well desire to be reproduced. It is of course a question of evidence as.
to whether or not the mesmerist succeeds in this avowedly empiricaL
reproduction of a most obscure nerve-condition; but there is at any
rate no reason whatever why his evidence should be slighted, or his,
attempt dismissed d priori as fantastic and unphysiological.
The next point on which, as we urge, the claims of Mesmerism.
have already been far exceeded by the unsought phenomena of Naturo
is that of intermittent memory-of the establishment of a second state"
which carries on its own memories from one access to another, but
whose recollection of the normal state is in varying degrees imperfect,
• Abercrombie, p. 277.
Digitized by Google
288 Appelldiz to the R,ep01·t on lJ[e8me'l'ism. [July 18,
and which is itself altogether forgotten so soon as the normal state
recurs. The complexity of these intercurrent memories may reach a
point which imagination can scarcely realise. Dr. Mayo cites a case of
quintuple memory, where a normal state was interrupted by four
separate morbid states, each with a memory of its own. The phe-
nomena, whether of amnesia or hypermnesia, which mesmerists allege,
reach no such marvellous pitch as this; but they offer a means of
·direct experimentation such as cannot otherwise be obtained in this
direction; and some of the cases adduced-as of the so-called "mes-
meric promise," or impression made on the brain in the mesmeric state,
which irresistibly works itself out in the subsequent normal condition
-present a singular conformity to some of the best physiological
speculations on the mechanism of memory.
The fifth point which we mentioned as conspicuously subject to,..
modification from obscure but spontaneously arising causes, Was'
cltaracter-the set of emotional and volitional dispositions which make
up a recognisable personality. Oharacter is of course largely influenced
by memory: a change in the body of pictures reproducible at will must
Ileeds change the general conception of the universe on which a man's
more definite views and preferences are based. And there is a child-
like sense of freedom and deliverance in the escape from the tr~­
melling recollection of what one has done in the past, and what other
people think about one,which forms a marked feature in many accounts
of spontaneous double-consciousness as well as of mesmeric trance.
But the history of spontaneous double-consciousness includes also cases
where character alters-as though through some altered distribution of
the supply of blood to the brain-while in the altered state the
memories of the normal state are preserved, Such cases are of much
importance with reference to certain allegations of permanent change
in emotional disposition effected by Mesmerism; and it may not be out
of place to refer here to Dr. Azam's case of Felida X. (the earlier
stages of which have been already summarised in lJ[ind)-a story which I
brings home to us the relativity of human judgments, the pathetic
limitations of man's outlook on the world, more forcibly than any
romance :-
FeIida X., an hysterical young woman living in the South of France, be-
came subject in 1856 to accesses of what wa3 at first considered as somnambu-
lism-Rtates lasting a few minutes or hours, of which she retained no
consciousness on regaining her normal condition. Gradually the duration of
these accesses increased; theybecame considerable enoughto rank asa "second
state;" and itwas observed that in this second state Felida perfectly remem-
bered the first state, though in the first or normal atate she forgot the second.
The secondstate graduallygrew upon her till it has become almost continuous,
her relapses into the first state occupyingperhaps not more than one day per
Digitized by Google
1883.J Appendix to the Report on Me8meris/n. 289
month. And it is remarkable that her s.econd state is in all respects superior
to her first. Her health is better i her chamctel' is more chee'li·tl and even;
her memory perfect for both states. She is aware of her occasional entry
into her first state, but she considers that as abnormal, and though not unduly
distressed by it she would fain avoid its occurrence. When in the first state,
on the other hand, her aches and pains return, and her memory for the
second state disappears. She is then truly miserable, even to the verge of
suicide, and ht'lplessly bewildered bythe vast gaps in her memory, which arc
so profound and extensive that if her husband or children happen tG be out
of the room at the moment when she enters the first state she does not knolV
whether they are alive or dead, and waits anxiously to see whether
they come in again. She is ashamed of this loss of memory, and uses all her
art to conceal it. Of late she has hit on a plan which somewhat lessens this
inconvenience. When she feels that an access of the first state is coming on,
she writes a letter to her other self, giviug a precis of the facts which she
considers it desirable that that self should know. Thus, for instance, she
-details the orders which have to be executed, the measurements of chintz,
&c.But there are cases where the poor creature is gla:i to forget. For example,
in the second state she learnt facts giving her grave cause for jealousy as to
her husband's conduct with a female friend of her own. So much did this
distress herthat she attempted suicide. She was rescued before life was extinct;
and then in her new misery she ardently desired the return of the first state,
with all its suicidal gloom-preferring, as one may say, to hang herself in
forgetfulness of the truth, rather than because she remembered it. She has
since then, in fact repeatedly returned to the first state, and knows nothing
therein of the trouble which has come 011 her second self. Yet this immunity
is not without its inconveniences; for while, in the second state, she rejects
indignantly all acquaintance with the treacherous friend, she knows that
there will be,:as it were, intercalary days of amnesty when she will greet her
again with cordiality and ease.
The brief sketch thus given of some of the abnormal phenomena of
sensation and consciousness which do unquestionably occur and which
nnquestionably occurred before Mesmerism was named or thought of,
might easily have been indefinitely extended. But enough has been said
~ ~e think, to shew how unscientific is the objection urged against Mes-
merism on account of the incredible character of the phenomena said to
be thereby induced. It mayor may not be the case that the mesmeric
process induces these phenomena; but to call such phenomena apriori
incredible, is to ignore or disregard an immense though scattered mass
of testimony (of a perfectly unbiased kind) to the existence of precisely
similar and of still stranger phenomena, which have been sporadically
observed in all ages and countries in which anything like accurate
observation has been possible.
For "OUr own part we feel so strongly the profundity of the mysteries
which the phenomena of somnambulism involve that we cannot recog-
nise any apriori objection to what may be called the grotesque simpli-
city of method with which Mesmerism attacks them. We cannot but
igitized byGoogl
290 AppendiJ: to tlte Report on Mesmerism.
!"emember that the first clues to problems whose solution lies far beyond
the resources of existing knowledge are generally discovered accidentally
and in unexpected quarters. We are in no way suggesting that a
clue thus empirically discovered is likely to prove to be the central
solution, the trud 'IlUJt de l'enigme. Weare inclined to attribute a
'<}uite co-ordinate importance to the classes of experiments associated
with the names of Reichenbach and of Charcot, which indicate hitherto
unexpected relationships between the nervous system and certain forces
resident in inorganic matter; and we watch with great interest the
various series of experiments which Professor Stanley Hall and others
are conducting on the more easily accessible forms of abnormal nervous
states. But we urge that these experiments are· not enough; that,
the higher the generalisations to be reached, the more various probably
must be the means employed for reaching them; and that, besides the__
exactly measurable experiments which can be instituted on 'such points
(for instance) as the modification in the speed of nervous reactions in
the hypnot.ic state, we need an immense mass, an immense variety, of
experiments-necessarily indeed vaguer, but not on that account less
instructive-on the higher, the rarer, the less analysable phenomena.
Some of these phenomena are wholly irreproducible. A case like
Felida's must simply be waited for till it; occurs of itself. But other
rare phenomena-sense-metastasis, clairvoyance, alternating memory,
~motional modification-these Mesmerism, and Mesmerism almost alone,
claims to be able to reproduce. This claim-which we shall hope to
discuss in a snbsequent paper-may be mistaken or exaggerated, but
at any rate it is not obviously absurd, it is not prirru1, facie illegitimate.
And if the claim be in any measure justified by facts, if this strange
empirical process can achieve one-tenth of what Elliotson, Esdaile,
or lIayo have claimed for it, there will assuredly be matter for the close
attention of all exact inquirers. .For a nEoW roadway of direct experi-
ment will have been driven into the jungle of those obscure phenomena
which Science neglects because they cannot be accurateiy tested, and .•
Ignorance distorts because they cannot be authoritatively explained.
Digitized by Google
Note on MU8cle-Readill{/. 291
NOTE ON MUSCLE-READING.
By TIlE REV. E. H. SUGDEN, B.Sc., OF BRADFORD.
About six months ago I was led to try a few experiments in so-
ealled Thought-reading, as exhibited by Stuart Cumberland, and I was
very soon convinced that all that he had done, and much more, could be,
effected by careful interpretation of muscular indications. A number
of public lectures afforded me opportunity for confirming my opinionby
numerous experiments performed upon a great number of "subjects,"
usually strangers to myself, but selected by the audience or chairman of
-- the meeting. A few general results may be worth putting upon record.
(1) Cltaracter o/tlM: Experiments.-They included the discovery of
persons thought of in the audience, and articles worn by them ; the
finding of pins and other hidden articles; reading the numbers of bank
notes, both by means of tickets with the ten digits printed on them and
placed on a table, and by writing the numbers on a blackboard; the
localisation of pains; following a track chalked out on the :floor; and
Qther similar tests. It will be observed that in all these cases the
thought discovered is a thought involving either motion in a definite
direction, or a definite point in space, the position of which has been
indicated by movements.
(2) Modus operandi.-The subject was directed to concentrate his
whole attention on the person, number, &c., thought of. I (of course
blindfolded) took his left hand, as being more aQ.tomatic than the right;
then if the object was to find some person or thing in the room, I
walked somewhat rapidly in front of my patient, following the indica-
tions he gave, until the person or thing was reached. If the number of
_ "a bank note was to be discovered, I moved the patient's hand rapidly
to and fro over the figured cards on the table until I found where it
most contentedly rested, so obtaining the five figures in succession; or
else lo.id his right hand upon the back of my own; and following his
indications wrote the figures successively on a blackboard. In localising
a pain, the patient's hand was rapidly passed over his body until some
preferential point was discovered. I found further that for the large
scale experiments it was quii;e enough to have a walking stick between
myself and the patient, he holding one end and myself the other;
indeed, I have succeeded occasionally with only a piece of thin wire as
the connective. '
In all cases muscular indication was all that I used ; I never had any
thought borne in upon my mind, or any image produced there; there
Digitized by Google
292 Note on MU8cle~ReadiJlg.
was no genuine Thought-reading. I simply followed muscular signs.
These varied very much in clearness and force. Sometimes the subject.
positively did all the work, leading me to the place, writing the figures,
and so on while I was passive as possible; in such cases I have often
gone on to write words or sentences upon the board under their guidance.
But such instances were rare; as a rule, I had to make a careful esti-
mate of the muscular resistance In each direction and follow
the line of least resistance until the place was reached or the
figure so far shaped as to be recognisable; then the indications usually
beca.me very much more positive.
(3) Failures and thmr Cattses.-I more or less completely failed in
about one case in four on an average. Probably the failures would have
been fewer if I had had ladies as my patients; IlS I have always, in
private experiments, found them very good subjects. In every case of
failure where inquiry could be made, sufficient renson WIlS discovered:
The most usual cause was determination not to allow the thing to be
done; ~he patient having an idea that it WIlS a question of his will
being conquered by mine, and so bracing himself up to resist.
Occasionally persons came forward, determined to thwart me, either
because they thought it was "all humbug," or because they considered
the phenomena to be due to spiritualistic agencies. When the subject
had a financial interest in the experiment, I found success to be very
difficult to obtain. Boys, IlS a rule, I found to be impracticable subjects;
possibly because they found it impossible to concentrate their thoughts
intensely, whilst facing a large audience. I soon found out, too, that
persons with cold, dry hands were never so easy to deal with as those
with warm, moist hands. .
(4) The Experience of tlte Fatients.-It is most important to note,
that in almost all cases, the question WIlS aSked, "Did you give me any
indication of what you were thinking about 1" and the answer was
invariably "No, not the lellSt." The whole was done without any
consciousness, and often in spite of a resolution to be quite passive.
This should be remembered, whenever contact has been allowed in
supposed genuine experiments in Thought-reading. The assurance of
the person who is in contact with the Thought-reader, that he gave him
no indication, is absolutely worthless. The most respectable and trust-
worthy persons have, over and over again, IlSsured me that they have
never moved their hand, when I have known that they have simply used
my hand as a pen, and have written with it, and the chalk it held,
using far more effort than they would if the chalk had been in their own
fingers. It should be further noted that contact with my hand is not
necessary. I have succeeded in finding a person thought of in a room,
when the patient's hand was simply laid upon my forehead, or upon my
shoulders. The result of my experience would lead me to doubt any
Digitized by Google
.-"""
Note on lIltescle-Readulg. 293
case of alleged Thought-reading where contact of any kind had been
allowed.
(5) One or two observations, bearing on the unconscious action of
the mind, may be recorded. I noticed very often that when an article
had been hidden in one place, and then transferred -to another, my
patient almost invariably took me first to the first place,and then after
ashort search there suddenly went off to the right place. The same
sort of thing has happened in the case of figures. If the figure has
been changed, the one first thought of came out first, only to be declared
wrong. Once in writing a bar.k note number, I could get nothing but
twos; they were declared to be wrong; .. but," said the patient, "there
were twos on another part of the note which I particularly noticed."
This is of interest as bearing on the well-known fact that in so-called
spiritualistic revelations the things told are things which the questioner
-.... has possibly even forgotten, but which have once been in his mind.
I also found that it is difficult for the mind to avoid transferring
itself from one thing to another like it. In finding pins, &a., I have
often been led, not to the right place, but to a place similar to it; as
e.g., the pin has been in one corner of the room, and I have gone to the
other; or it has been in some one's pocket, and almost every pocket that
I came near has had to be searched. One case was very singular. The
pin had been hidden in the hAel of a man's h9ot, under the instep. I
was at once taken to a man near the platform, and got down to his boot
heel and to the very spot where the pin really was, but in another man's
boot. I could get no farther with that"subject"; but on taking another
I at once found the right man, and the pin in his boot-heeL
I may finally add that I have no special power in this direction. I
have rarely found anyone who could not pretty readily succeed in per_
forming any of these experiments after a very little practice; and even
on the first attempt, if they had confidence.
w
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
