{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1todd_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Todd R NDE 731","mylang":"de"}
          	        Todd R NDE 731  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Todd R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						256  Todd R NDE  731  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in an auto on an icy road.  I went through frozen, unable to move, trauma that showed me my younger life through my own death.  I was accompanied by a voice that repeated my own words and other's in my past.  I felt the car move under me and saw it from the sky.  Looking down, I saw and heard a strange vector of air and sound that wasn't from the event unfolding before my eyes.  Right before I was put back in my auto with my friend, who was riding in the passenger seat, a person, whose image was blurred, asked me 'Do you want to return?'  I remember looking out the window next, then turning to my friend who said, 'We should be dead and our auto should be trashed to oblivion,' but we were facing the opposite way we were traveling and back on the road.


The car's gas gauge read almost empty when we had filled it not more than ten previous miles before the event.  There was no sign of leaking gas anywhere.  There were Douglas fir tree limbs under my car, stuck in the frame.  The road was blocked from the cliff we had just went off by a guardrail.  The rail was intact.  My friend remembers nothing.  The next day I lost all my hair and it felt like someone had bleached my skin with oil or acid.  I have since regained all my hair and have had no adverse effects since.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    01-22-97

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident  auto-crash, diverted  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening Icy road, sixty-five miles per hour, corner, car slid for long period of time, left road, flew through air, over trees, approximately fifty feet off the ground for one hundred yards.  No damage to the automobile, no bodily injury, just frozen in time and mind for what seemed about two or three full minutes, when the whole experience should have taken eight to ten seconds.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I felt high like pot, but reality was there, no false-sense of reality like drugs, all my senses were heightened and fully alert.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      One hundred percent.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Ten seconds in real-time, took three to four minutes perhaps.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Steady vector, air sounds like loud jet engines without the hurting effect on my ears, and a voice of people, my dead grandparents, friends, and past historians, and then my own voice at the end, which I remember answering and saying 'yes' I wanted to 'return'.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A feeling of lightness, fluffiness, and no-painfulness?

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I briefly saw my grade-school days in the play-ground, my grandmother's house, and a church-yard where my dad was buried when I was ten, I hadn't seen that vision for eleven years before that night.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I was asked if I wanted to 'return' or not, I answered yes and saw the car back on the road, while we were perched above the flying car, wrecking off the road, then returned.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Instantly back and felt the moving, without moving; and my passenger says he saw my body the entire time he was conscious never leaving the driver's seat.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The mind-altering effect of moving without moving, seeing without opening my eyes, and hearing sounds without leaving the car, and the passenger heard nothing out of the normal.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I see the true definition of our religion.  I know now that we are eternal and our minds are conditioned from birth to believe a certain rite of passage (religion, truth, fact) believe nothing, our mind is fifteen percent of our capacity and potential.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best, living when I should have died.  Worst, not knowing what the hell saved me and why I was given a second chance.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Here nor there, people are conditioned by society to watch TV, follow the pastor, and eat foods that suppress our third eye, or our ability to use our full ability.  Comfort for loss of potential is the human way according to Christians, religious people in general, and parents, fear the holy God, don't challenge anything, and be judged!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Mushrooms to some degree. They give me the flying experience and mind-altering thoughts, and the drug 'ecstasy' with the high feeling.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I think the Heavy Metal band Tool, is on to something when they cite Leary, Hicks, and 46+2.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      None to mind.  Don't believe anything.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1todd_r_nde.html