{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tom_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Tom M NDE 5013","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tom M NDE 5013  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tom M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2593 Tom M NDE 5013  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was eighteen years of age, I was severely beaten to the point of causing respiratory cardiac failure, after which, I experienced all the phenomena related to such events, as narrated by others that have suffered near death experiences.

First of all I saw my body down below me and when I realized I was dead I became extremely agitated and worried, I kept thinking to myself 'You are dead, what are you going to do now?' The thought was persistent and I became more and more disturbed, at this point I heard or though I heard a voice that came from elsewhere and it said, 'Don't worry all your problems are left behind with that body.' At this point, I felt as if I was liberated from a great burden, I never felt before or since such a state of wellbeing.

I began a journey at a great speed through a tunnel of light; all that I have narrated to this point is very vivid in my memory, what seems like a dream is what happened after. I have no clear memory of the events that occurred after the trip in the tunnel of light; in fact, the memory of it seems to me more like a dream than an actual event. In this dream, I arrived somewhere or to be more precise I was intercepted before my arrival.  My dead sister and grandmother told me that it was not yet my time and that I must get back.

I am a forty-seven year old man now and have no recollection as to how I got back to my body when I was revived.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1981

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   When I was eighteen years of age, I was severely beaten to the point of causing respiratory cardiac failure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout the whole ordeal, except as to how I made it back to my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     From my vantage point floating on the top of the ceiling I had a 360 degree view of my body and its surroundings.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I thought I heard an external voice telling me not to worry, that my troubles were left behind along with the body.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I began a journey at a great speed through a tunnel of light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I arrived somewhere or to be more precise I was intercepted before my arrival by my dead sister and grandmother who told me that it was not yet my time and that I must get back.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I began a journey at a great speed through a tunnel of light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wonderful, totally at peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Neither.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Not religious.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe that there is some type of power source of which we all belong to.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I believe that God or what we refer to as God is a source of power

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe that there is some type of power source of which we all belong to.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There is a question that I would like to pose to your organization and that is. I have not been very diligent in perusing this matter, but in the few near death cases that I have heard of, none of the people that experienced such events narrate how they exited their bodies. I say this because the first thing I experienced was this thing being pulled out of me by the top of my head. When I say being pulled out I mean it literately, this thing that came out the top of my head, did not do it out of its own volition it was pulled out and when it was half way out it resisted one final time and finally it came out in one fluid movement.

  Could you please tell me if other people felt what I felt and if so, did we all exit our bodies in a similar fashion?

  Thank you!

  NDERF Note: Most NDEs do not describe their consciousness leaving their bodies. However, we have a number of NDEs that do describe leaving their bodies. I believe that most leave through their head, some leave through their chest, and less commonly from other parts of their body.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       YES, HOW DID YOU EXIT YOUR BODY?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tom_m_nde.html