{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tom_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Tom A NDE 7656","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tom A NDE 7656  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tom A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3929 Tom A NDE 7656  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was standing in the hospital hallway when I saw four medical staff working on me. I said aloud, 'I'm dead.' As soon as I said that, I felt a warm feeling wash over me. At no time was I scared, worried or concerned. I felt so much peace and calmness.  I then heard a voice to my left telling me, 'I'm impressed.' I turned to the voice and saw my Dad. His back was against the hallway wall. As he walked to me, he said, 'I'm impressed.  A little John Wayne-ish, but I am impressed.' The wall of the hallway began to dissolve behind my Dad. Behind the dissolving wall was a large valley that was very green with a few trees. Further away, I saw large mountains with very blue water in front of them. The sun was behind the mountains. My Dad was smiling with a very bright light on him.  At that time my Mom walked between me and Dad. She turned to him and said, 'We have to hurry, I don't want to be late.' I then turned to my Dad telling him, 'I can stay here, I want to stay.' My Dad grabbed my upper left arm and turned me around to my right. I saw a rolling countryside with an old farm on it and a well-worn pathway made by animals pulling wagons. My Dad said, 'You have to go through the gate.'  My feet were still on tile flooring. My Dad placed his hand on my upper back and began to push me through the gateway. As I went through the gate, he told me, ‘Tell everyone to be nice to each other.'  He seemed sorry for sending me back.  I felt someone telling me to tell people to ‘stop worrying about their pending death because worrying takes life away.'  I was pushed and awakened by my wife telling me that I had a heart attack. While in the hospital, I saw a large man standing at the foot of my bed with his hands crossed and observing everything. I felt safe with him being there. While in the hospital, nurses and doctors threatened to call security to strap me down with leather straps because I was combative while resisting my treatments. They tied me down with cloth straps. After seeing this man at the foot of my bed, I stopped resisting.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  11-26-14

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had a heart attack. The doctor said I went too long without oxygen and advised my wife, who is an RN, that I would have brain and heart damage. He told her that she should prepare herself to place me in a nursing home, and a wheel chair. The doctors lowered my core body temperature to 93 degrees.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Nurses and doctors working on me.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I received messages from people other than my parents. It was pounded into my head that the light shining on my Dad was not from him.  He was not the source of the light. The feeling of peace and calmness was so overwhelming.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Immediately

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time jumped for me. I have lost weeks of memories before and after my heart attack.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors were popping

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I have severe hearing loss with very bad ringing. While there, I did not have the ringing and heard fine.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     See narrative

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light on my dad was bright but never blinding. Somehow, I found it comforting.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was a green valley with the bluest water I have ever seen. The old farm was something like Norman Rockwell would draw.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Great calm and great peace

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   non-practicing catholic. have not been to church for close to 30 years. I have a beef with organize religion.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I pray without the doubt now.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I feel I was given two gifts, one heaven exist and my dad is happy.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am less judgmental. I am willing to share my feelings to my love ones.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   There was the voice telling me to tell everyone to stop worrying about our deaths because it takes away from life.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     the unidentified voice about our worrying about death. I felt it was god/Jesus.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Heaven is there.  My dad loves me and HE IS HAPPY!

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     both parents passed one year before my incendent. ever since my Dads passing I prayed nightly for confirmation of his happiness. received no signs until I saw him smiling at me during my experience.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     when my dad told me to be nice to everyone. I became acutely aware of my fellow man and walking in his/her shoes.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt it from first minute. never left me.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Knowing     Knowing

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more open to friends and family. I drive physically ill seniors to and from doctors’ appointments. Many seniors know they will die very soon.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I was afraid to tell my wife. I was ashamed of the fact that I wanted to stay so easily without a thought of my wife or daughters.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with my wife, brother, old friend, priest and a dying person.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I don't know why I was chosen for such a gift.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Nothing at this time.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tom_a_nde.html