{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tom_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Tom C NDE 4212","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tom C NDE 4212  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tom C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2050 Tom C NDE 4212  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had a NDE when I had a bad car accident six years ago. My right front tire blew out at about eighty mph and I left the road almost instantly and rolled several times. The most bizarre thing was that I have NO MEMORY of the accident at all - just memory of the blowout. Next thing was that I watched the emergency medical technicians try to revive me right after. It took the fire and rescue men almost an hour to extract me from my car.

I was hovering overhead! In this time, I felt no pain, no fear at all. I remember actually being over my body in the ambulance as they took me to the hospital! A male emergency medical technician gave me CPR and I remember the tattoo he had on his upper forearm. I could draw it! I don't remember his face or name at all. I 'followed' myself from the ambulance down the hospital corridor with the emergency medical technician still trying to revive me. I was covered with blood! They had cut my tee shirt and jeans off me. I was in one of those neck brace things. I had a broken pelvis, ribs and both legs. The left side of my head bashed the door column, ripped my ear off and gave me brain lacerations from the impact. My small intestines were ripped into due to an adhesion I had since I was four years old when I had an appendectomy. Blood kept coming out of my mouth and nose. I watched as I had a seizure!

Now I was backing away as if a camera lens was backing off from a close-up to a wide-angle shot. I had the most unbelievable happiness and elation that really can't be put into words! The vividness and small details of this experience match nothing that has ever happened to me before! I seemed to be backing away through a very long (infinitely long) tunnel you hear described in NDEs. This tunnel was rings that had very bright dotted lights on each ring. I seemed to go on for hours. The feeling of peace and happiness was unbelievable. The vividness and detail, I could go on and on about it! Everything that had happened in my life seemed to be like a movie on a monstrous screen. I reached the point of my accident and all ended!

I awoke from a drug-induced coma after about two days. It was as if I was home from a very long vacation. Both my sisters were there when I came to. I was told by one of the doctors that my heart had stopped due to blood loss. I had been given seven or eight units of blood! I was in the hospital for twenty-one days. It took me almost three months to walk again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'March 21, 2003'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Car accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During the life review.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the life review.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was as if things were much more detailed.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear everybody talking that was around me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was rings that I passed through. A tunnel made of rings that were not attached to one another. There were lights on the rings in concentric patterns and not once were they alike from one to the other, every one was different.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I didn't, to my knowledge, make it to see the light that they describe as very bright but painless. One seemed to be in the distance but was in the direction I was going FROM.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness and a high sense of adventure!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was like a movie without a screen. Very, very detailed.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I am agnostic, and still am, but the feeling of complete peace makes me believe that there is life after death for sure.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I am agnostic, and still am, but the feeling of complete peace makes me believe that there is life after death for sure.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My sisters have become aware of the effect of NDEs.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Some of it is! Other stuff I could go on and on about but some of it was like a dream you have sometimes that can't be described in words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was like nothing I had ever experienced before. I believe in NDE, OBEs etc. before I had the accident, but when I experienced one it was like a gift!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Very few people.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I believed it for what it was.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     A gift.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I dream of it a lot.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tom_c_nde.html