{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tom_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Tom B NDE 685","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tom B NDE 685  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  		  				  					Tom B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						225  Tom B NDE  685  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It was very cold outside (below freezing) and our furnace had quit. I thought that I would have it fixed in a few hours but late in the afternoon, I could see that it was going to take longer than I thought. I told my wife that she should take the kids to her mom's house, so she did. I had to stay behind because I needed to keep trying to fix the furnace, and to keep the water pipes from freezing. About 2:00 a.m. I was exhausted so I went upstairs to go to bed.


I had the oven on, with the door open, for some heat and I found out later that just that alone can be toxic with a gas stove. Before I fell to sleep, I took our electric fireplace heater off of the wall and brought it into the small room I was going to sleep in. I put it next to the bed and plugged it into an extension cord. Then I laid down. I tossed and turned for about a half hour and fell to sleep. The next thing I remember was being in a (Pure white) 'place' with love all around me. It was above, below, in front, behind, even through me. Somehow, I knew I was in the presence of God. He didn't talk with a voice but by thoughts. He told me that he loved me, that he had always loved me, and that he was very proud of me. I remember that I couldn't believe how peaceful it was and how much love was there. I first remember thinking, how much I wanted to stay, and I knew that I could if I wanted to. But my next thought was of my wife and kids; how they would get along without me - then thinking they would be 'just fine' - and whoosh I was outside on the ground in the snow and cold wearing just my blue jeans.


I went to the front door, it was half-open, opened it and smoke came rolling out. It turned out that the electric heater had melted the extension cord and set fire to the carpet and floor and filled the house with smoke. I opened the windows vented the smoke and that was it. I'm absolutely sure that it wasn't a dream. I had never before or ever since been more conscious in my life. I've missed the feelings that I had, even longed for them, but I also knew that I couldn't go back until it was my turn. So that's it. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1983

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening Toxic fumes and smoke.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I couldn't see myself.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Extremely alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I was sure that I was in a very loving (place).

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I had the sense that others were there.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I wasn't in my home any longer.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     That I was incredibly special, that 'we all' belong to one another, and that we are all responsible TO one another and to all living things.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     That we are all headed to the same place, just by different 'highways'.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best, learning that I will never die.  The worst  I couldn't stay.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Quiet apprehension. Unknown.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I can't think of any.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tom_b_nde.html