{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tisha_g_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Tisha G NDE-Like\/ADC 2450","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tisha G NDE-Like/ADC 2450  		  		  		  		  		        		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tisha G NDE-Like/ADC  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  						738  Tisha G NDE-Like/ADC  2450  					  				  			        			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I awoke suddenly at 5:38 am from a very deep sleep. Realizing that I could not go back to sleep, I got up and let my dogs out the back door. It was dawn but there was enough light for me to see clearly. I began to notice that there seemed to be a problem with my vision - it was a sort of strobe light effect (about the same effect you would achieve by blinking your eyes very rapidly). I then began to feel very light headed and started to notice that I was losing sensation in my extremities. For some reason I said to myself, 'I am dying, I cannot believe this I am actually dying!' At this point, I hurried back into the house and onto my bed feeling as though I was about to collapse and like my body was literally being erased. Still convinced I was dying, a part of my brain insisted that this was impossible as I could feel my heart pounding in my chest and I was still able to breath. At this point, I could think of no other reason to be so convinced that I was dying except that I was possibly losing my mind. I was absolutely horrified and began to pray to God to make whatever this was stop.

The next thing I knew is that I felt as though 'I' (the very core of me - my awareness) was being sucked out of my head.  I moved upwards at about a forty degree angle at an incredible rate of speed through what for a lack of a better word, could resemble a tunnel (although the edges seemed permeable, rather than solid). At this point, I was no longer afraid but still fully conscious and aware of what was happening, it was really a very comforting peaceful feeling and I recall thinking that I was heading somewhere pleasant. I could not come close to guessing how long this went on, I totally lost track of time - or rather, there was no time to track.

The speed was unlike anything you could imagine. Although the 'tunnel was dark (like a starless night sky) I could still 'see' but not in the normal context of seeing - it was more like I could see all around me without using my eyes. Far ahead in the distance was a vague light (like headlights behind a hill of an oncoming vehicle). The next thing I knew, the whole experience came to an abrupt end, like a bungee cord had yanked me back into my body and I immediately fell into a deep sleep. It was about 11:15 in the morning when I woke up. The first thing I thought was, 'What in the hell happened to me?'

I had a strange feeling that something horrible had happened, I turned on the TV to the news and saw that tornadoes had hit Indiana and several people had been killed. Much of my family lives in Indiana, so I grabbed by cell phone to call and check on them. My phone rang before I was able to call anyone, it was 11:47 and the caller on the other end said, 'Your mother is dead!' She had not been sick. I had spoken with her at 1:02 in the morning and she was fine. My mother did not die from the tornadoes but rather from cardiac/respiratory arrest. According to reports her death would have occurred at around the same time I had my experience. I no longer feel that I was losing my mind, what happened to me was as real as anything I have ever experienced - in fact, it was more real.

Since this experience, I feel like I have become a totally different person, one with more understanding and empathy. The message I got was definitely about love, God, and a universal connection between everything. Although I do not believe that I was ever actually near death I experienced all of this at around the same time my mother passed away, I was fully awake, not on alcohol or drugs, and not suffering from any mental impairment.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 11/06/2005  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         mother's death cardiac/respiratory arrest  Other NDE at moment of Mother's death  To my mother 1,300 miles away, not to me.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Everything seemed more real than reality.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was conscious the whole time.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Time did not exist.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see all around me, it was like using another set of eyes.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Dark like a starless night sky, the 'tunnel's' walls were not solid.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   But it was very vague and far off in the distance. The experience ended before I had a clear view of the light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Initially frightened, then peace, comfort, love, and connectedness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I was having a NDE at the time of my mother's death.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Feel more spiritual.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Feel more spiritual.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Oneness.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Too soon to tell.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no words to completely describe the feelings or features of the event.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Too soon to tell.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Shared it immediately. Different reactions from different people.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It happened - no doubt.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tisha_g_ndelike.html