{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1todd_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Todd N NDE 6638","mylang":"de"}
          	        Todd N NDE 6638  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Todd N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3292 Todd N NDE 6638  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was a hot summer day in Florida. I was a twelve year old boy who loved to skateboard and just fit in with the other kids on the block. My neighbors two houses down had two boys who were approximately three and six years older than I was. So, obviously, they hung out with even older kids, too. Well, we were all talking and skateboarding and doing tricks in the street, when they started to play-fight around me. I just stood and watched as they did this. Then one of the older boys, approximately sixteen years old, snuck up behind me and put me in a 'sleeper hold' (otherwise known as a 'choke hold.')  I tried to get out of it, but I was far outmatched by the older, stronger boy. Within seconds, I was out! 'Out went the lights' for me!

It's hard to explain what transpired next, but I was above everyone, like, say, ten feet or so, looking down. I didn't notice whether 'I' had a body or not. What I saw was like the view from a camera.  I could see and hear them laughing, standing around me. I could see my body actually lying there on the road! But I wasn't in it! I felt no pain whatsoever. Actually I felt great! I was just in awe of seeing myself and trying to figure out how I got outside of myself. Trying to figure out why I and was able to see everything unfolding from a viewpoint above everyone!

Then, poof!  I was back in my body and awake. I felt refreshed and slowly got up off the hot road. Most of the kids were still just laughing at me. I'm sure they didn't realize how you can easily die within seconds from the technique that was used on me. I'm pretty sure I told one of the kids about this and he said it must have been a dream, so I naturally believed him, given that he was the older, wiser kid on the block.

 Can anyone tell me what happened to me on that day? I'd love to hear a researcher's understanding of my experience. I know what happened to me. It wasn't a dream, and I'm not crazy. I would love my questions answered by someone who knows these experiences, or anyone else that can explain it to me.

Thank you very much.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  summer 1990

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was put in a 'sleeper hold,' or choke hold, that puts pressure on the arteries in the neck, essentially cutting all blood flow to the brain along with cutting off oxygen to the lungs, as well. Hence the name 'sleeper hold,' because it will knock you out in approximately three seconds and will cause death if not stopped immediately.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could hear the birds chirping in the trees and people laughing at me.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I could see so much and hear everyone. I was totally aware of myself both on the ground and up in the air. I really didn't worry about anything, or feel fear or pain. I was totally okay up there. I had no worries.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Literally, the whole time. I could see so much. Literally, everything around me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed to happen in normal time, which seemed about like five minutes. I was probably only on the ground for seconds. I'm not sure.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors seemed more vivid. Everything was crystal clear. A beautiful day that I usually never noticed.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear totally fine. I could hear them laughing around me like I was right there. I could hear birds chirping in the trees.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None really.  I was fine. I felt no pain at all. It wasn't worried about the me on the ground. I was A-ok. I was even happy and in a good mood when I came to. I laughed about it.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   At the time I hadnt been to church in years(prob 4-5 yrs).

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My faith is stronger, and I know there is something after we pass on.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I knew there was heaven, but NEVER at that age heard anything like this. I was young..You dont think about that stuff.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Just be nice to everything and everyone.  Or at least try to.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No     I dont think I got that far..but it wouldve been nice to see Him.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     by the mood I was in when I came to..I was joyful and peaceful. I think thats what life is about..joy, peace, love.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     If your spirit or whatever can leave your body, there MUST be more than just youre born, you live, you die and thats it. It just anchors the point even more that there is more. I would love to see it, but it will come eventually. My experience was VERY br

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     I just felt good..no pain at all! peaceful but a little confused on how I got out of my body..still am to this day.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     It makes you value life, and everything in it, more. It helps you enjoy it more.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's hard to express how it happened, because I don't know how I went from being in my body, looking out of two eyes, to being out of and above my body by approximately ten or so feet. I was looking down at the others and myself.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I can still picture it all in my mind.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told one of the kids and he laughed it off, dismissing it as dreaming.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It happened.  I just didn't understand how. I still kind of don't to this day. It's an amazing thing!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Keep up the great work and share it with others. Let them give feedback as well.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1todd_n_nde.html