{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1todd_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Todd H NDE 3684","mylang":"de"}
          	        Todd H NDE 3684  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Todd H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1681 Todd H NDE 3684  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in the hospital. Doctors were performing a procedure to see what was going on in my lungs. When they started the procedure, I went into respiratory arrest. Time slowed. With each beat of my heart, there was pain pulsating throughout my body. The pain was extreme. I cried out to God to stop the pain. I was scared I was going to die; die alone. My mind flooded with thoughts. The past and my missed future. All of a sudden, the pain disappeared. I was told that all my thoughts were in the past; that none of that mattered anymore. It was so peaceful. I felt the presence of others. They were close but so far away. I did not recognize them, but I knew they were familiar. I was also told, 'You will suffer in silence.' I survived. All of this happened during the Anthrax attacks of 2001. My illness was undiagnosed. I was in a coma for two weeks. I, in no way whatsoever, am afraid to die at this point. I know we continue to exist after death. It's a very different place. However, I am afraid of how I will die. The pain is extreme until it goes away and death is close.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'October 31, 2001'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Blood pressure fell to 35 over 20. Multiple organ failure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After the panic of certain death which I accepted. Then the pain went away.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time slowed down almost to a stop.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Even though time slowed I was able to hear those around me. It's like I could have twenty thoughts in between each word someone else spoke. A nurse was saying my pressure was falling. I heard another say they need to intubate now. I heard someone say dopamine drip.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were there. I could not see or recognize them, but I knew them to be familiar. There were many.

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I felt it was going to be next. It was like I was in a holding place; between life and death. I felt certain the light would be next.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I spoke about that place between life and death previously.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I'm not sure. With the 'others' present, I felt safe. I think there were there to comfort me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I knew life would be tough for me from that point on.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     It has not happened yet. It was more of a feeling. A feeling that life here is about to change drastically. For the worse.  Then much, much better.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Religion is personal.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know there is a GOD.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Christian mixed with Buddhism.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know there is a GOD.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I'm sorry I just can't explain it in words.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Fewer friends, but better relationships with them.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The whole experience. A lot happened in a short period of time, even though time slowed.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I still suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder from the event. I must get over it. It's blocking my senses.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I am no longer afraid of death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know it would have impacted my life profoundly. However, there were other things that happened to cause post-traumatic stress disorder to set in.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I KNOW what happened to me was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not sure.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1todd_h_nde.html