{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tish_z_nde.html","mytitle":"Tish Z NDE 6039","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tish Z NDE 6039  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tish Z NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2863 Tish Z NDE 6039  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The first event in 1998 was when I had an allergic reaction to a medication I was taking. I remember being awakened given meds by my partner.

I can remember leaving my body, and then it was like I was above my body, viewing myself. I saw myself no longer breathing, yet I felt warm and at peace, and I had no fear. Then I found myself walking down a path toward what looked like a tunnel, at the end of which I could see a very bright light. I entered the tunnel, and as I walked further into it, I could see some cloudy figures, like indistinct shadows of people.  But then there was one that I just knew was my mother, who had passed.  I'm not sure how I knew it was her. It reminds me of when you suddenly smell something, which vividly brings back a memory of the past. I was an adult, but I could hear myself call her 'Mommy.'  She took my hand and led me to the edge of the tunnel and into the light; and I could see green rolling fields that seemed to go on forever, and a sky so blue.  The colors were like nothing that I had ever seen before. There was this wonderful, overwhelming sense of peace. We talked, but without moving our mouths i.e. without words. How to say this? We communicated through our thoughts. She told me that it was not my time, and so I needed to go back. My mind kept saying 'No!'

When I woke up, I thought that I had been asleep for only a few hours, yet it had been several days. I was told that I had had a reaction to the medication that I had been given too much, causing me to have a stroke.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1998, 2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Allergic reaction    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Allergic reaction.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND unpleasant and/or frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was like all sensory perceptions were very finely tuned. Like I could see forever, and hear sounds that I had never heard before. Smells were intensified too.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the time I stopped breathing.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no feeling of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I always have had to wear glasses. I have worn glasses since I was 7 years old, but I didn't need them there. I could see perfectly without them.  I was not wearing glasses and my mother was not wearing glasses either, although she used to. Colors, brightness, and the objects were transparent. My vision was clear.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything was so clear. It was like I could hear the grass growing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was walking on a pathway with flowing water on either side of me. There was a tunnel, the entrance of which was somewhat dark, but as I began to walk through it, it became brighter. And at the end of the tunnel, there was this overwhelmingly bright light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My mother.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was so bright that colors seen in that light pulsated and seemed to dance.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The colors and sounds were so vivid! There were variously colored, transparent orbs that seemed to pulsate.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness and sadness

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     It is so hard to explain. I call it 'feeling', 'knowing,' and yet I had a feeling of frustration and sadness too.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     Actually, I prefer not to say. They were from both the World's future and from my personal future.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     My belief in the Creator has never been as strong as it is now. I will never deny my beliefs. I would die for my beliefs.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     To know there is something beyond the physical death of the body.  To have no fear of dying.  To reflect love in everything I do and say.  To help those in need.  To be the best being I can and never stop questioning and searching for answers.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I try to live my life as if I lived in a glass house.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   There were many that I could describe as 'mystical beings' there. The whole experience was mystical to me. I saw figures. There was one person that I think was Jesus. I didn't think of this until now.  And I did see other beings, too.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   I say figures one I could describe as Jesus.  But I have not thought of this until now.  I saw other beings.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I remember my on past live experiences.  I have met others who have shared my past lives.  Who were my lovers.  My friend.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     That we each have what was called spirit guides, angles

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Yes that we are without age.  We have  existed from the beginning and we are without end.  We are immortal.  Nothing dies it just transforms.  We are perfection in the Creators eye.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   To never harm another living thing. To spread love every day. To know I am blessed. To know there is something beyond the physical death of the body. To have no fear of dying.  To reflect love in everything I do and say. To help those in need.  To be the best being I can, and never stop questioning and searching for answers.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     To serve one another.  To show all that peace on earth is obtainable.  To spread love.  Through talk, music, example, To help increase man's awareness to the endless possibilities that love can heal all.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     It is an aware perception that there is existence beyond the body.  It is of the spirit.  The soul.  That we continue to evolve on a soul to soul level.  i should say if one is aware and pursues their journey.  Nothing dies

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     To show love even to the most unlovable.  To stop and say hello can we talk to those who are lost on our streets. To take a moment and see them hear them.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Yes ones fear is overwhelmingly obvious with our world events.  Fear breeds hatred.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is the essential ingredient for soul awareness.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes We love each other and express it every day.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I have not been able to understand why I returned to my body. What was the purpose of this event? I feel stuck.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   This was by far the most vivid experience I have ever had.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have been aware since I was 18 months old that I have certain what I would call special 'gifts.'

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole event has been meaningful to me.  I cannot pick and choose any particularly more meaningful parts. I am aware that there is existence beyond the body.  It is the existence of the spirit, the soul.  That we continue to evolve in a soul-to-soul manner. (I should say that this happens if one is aware and pursues one's journey.) Nothing of the spirit dies.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Days later. They knew me, and they knew from my own reaction that this was true for me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was the feeling of knowing, a gut feeling that cannot be denied.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because I am a better person for this experience, I am at peace.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The experience has left me with this feeling of being in limbo. Like, 'Why me?'  I realize that we are without age. We have existed from the beginning, and we are without end. We are immortal.  Nothing dies, it just transforms.  We are perfection in the eye of the Creator.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I don't think so at this time.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tish_z_nde.html