{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tina_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Tina R NDE 3746","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tina R NDE 3746  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tina R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1745 Tina R NDE 3746  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Went to the emergency room due to a sudden onset of symptoms: chills, vomiting, fever, headache and progressed weakness over an eight hour period. I had an infection that turned septic, which travelled into my bloodstream, suffered a possible heart attack, extreme low blood pressure (49 over 28) and pneumonia. I spent twelve days in the hospital; eight days in the intensive care unit and four days on the regular ward and two months off work recovering.

Twice in a twenty-four hour period, I remember the exact same occurrence. I remember feeling very weak when my eyes rolled back into my head, then suddenly I was standing upright, but not on the ground, it was as if I was floating in a very silent, peaceful space. There was an oval shape of a cloud-like image surrounded in light that became larger and larger in size. I heard a voice saying; 'Tina, it is not your time yet, so don't worry or panic.' The voice repeated this statement two or three times and then told me to relax, calm my body and concentrate on opening my eyes. I then remember thinking (knowing) that it was my angel speaking and comforting me. I felt an extreme sense of peace and stillness. 

During the second experience, I also remember thinking that it was unfortunate that my life was over but if I were to go I wouldn't be alone and that I would be with my mom. 

But the voice answered my thought with words of comfort and peacefully suggested that it was not my time to go.

I then open my eyes finding a medical team working to revive me. 

The second time I was woke almost in an upside down position with the intensive care unit physician inserting a central line in my neck. It was at that moment when I had realized that I had just witnessed a near death experience(s).

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'August 24 & 25, 2008'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Other 'Life threatening illness, sepsis due to an infection.'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I heard the voice speaking to me, very clearly. My name was repeated as if the voice was certain of my full attention.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Absolutely an altered space of stillness - present moment.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The cloud-like oval was very clear with a sharpness/extremely focused visual of the image.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Very clear and concentrated. It felt like I could hear the silence - complete attention.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A cloud-like oval image that increased in size surrounded in white light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A voice.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The level of stillness and silentness was not earthly...it was definitely a soulful level.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peaceful with a non-emotional listening state of awareness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Just that I was told that I have a lot left to accomplish on earth.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Now I know at least of how one feels just before they pass.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Now I know at least of how one feels just before they pass.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew it was my angel speaking to me - a instant knowing, not a thinking knowledge.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Attempting to live my life consciously and with more meaning.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The sense of peace, silent space and standing horizontal but not on the ground.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Everything about it. It didn't seem to last very long - I am uncertain of the length of time the experience lasted.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Almost immediately, to family, and to later friends. Everyone has an emotional response of belief and gratitude of my sharing my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Heard stories on TV or read about in books - but my experience does not match anything previously learned.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was definitely a life altering experience - never to be questioned or doubted and would remain in my memory forever.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was a true blessing to have had those experiences.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tina_r_nde.html