{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tina_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Tina G NDE 2248","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tina G NDE 2248  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tina G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						643  Tina G NDE  2248  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I remember looking down seeing the nurse and doctor working on me then I am walking down what I believe was the hall of the hospital, everything was very bright white, it was like I was floating. I remember going past a door and I looked through the glass to see my mother (who was alive). I put my hands out but never touched the door, it opens, and my mother was waiting for me to get out of surgery. She had turned her chair around for all the other chairs also I remember them being very bright blue. My mother was reading a book I go to put my hand on her but then I notice there was a lady in the corner with long brown hair she had on an orange and brown wrap around her. Then I look to my mother again and as I go to call her name I feel as though I see hands touch my feet they -  were black hands. There was no one black in the surgery room that I knew of. Then I felt as though I was falling down a tunnel and then I woke up. I go home an hour after surgery and I thought it was a dream.

I did not sleep that night at all - driving my girlfriend and husband crazy because I felt as though I was full of life and could not sit down. The next morning I called my mother to tell her of the dream that I could not get out of my mind - it was as if it just kept repeating itself in my mind. My mother was speechless because the woman I saw there with her came in after I was out and left with her son while I was still in surgery.  She had moved her chair around from all the rest of them so she could watch for my father and husband. Also, the anesthesiologist was called away and another one was called in, he was a black man whom I never saw. After I woke up the nurse at hospital told me about him after I ask her if I almost died, she said yes twice. I was to be there three hours but it took six and a half hours.

I believe God gave me this experience for one reason. That is because my nineteen year old son was killed on April 9, 2005. I could not sleep that night and at 1:35 am I was on my computer and all of a sudden I saw the brightest light come up from between my arms and yell, 'Mom!!!' Very loud. It shook me up so bad I knew someone had died but my mind would not accept that it said mom!! I remember looking up and I smiled at what I knew was there - not knowing it was my son until 4:00 am when the phone rang. I jumped out of bed and I did not answer the phone by me, I ran to the other side of the house to answer it. That is where I was when it happened the person on the phone said, 'Tina, how is Chase?' I dropped the phone because at that moment I realized it said mom!!! I ran to my husband and yelled, 'Chase is dead! Oh God, he is dead! And they are on phone!' He ran to the phone as I ran to the front door to see the Chaplin putting on his coat and collar at his car with the police. I then remember hearing those words, 'I am sorry Mrs. G,' and hearing my husband scream. After that, it is like we went in to shutdown mode. But I do believe I had this so that God would let my son come home to say goodbye. And I would know it was him.

We, my son Chase and I had been seeing someone follow behind him for about six months. I saw it first and never told anyone but my husband and girlfriend Gina. Then he was on vacation with his cousin and he called to let me know he made it there and all of a sudden, he screamed he saw a man in their room - a large man wearing a plaid like shirt that is what I had been seeing but there would be no one there when I looked again. I was so scared after he saw it too; it was two months later he died. The only one to die out of three people in the truck he was in. He knew he was going to heaven, he left me many notes about it in his room, and all kinds of music about going to heaven I never knew he had gotten in the two weeks before he was gone. Thank you God for letting him come home. See, he was only eight blocks from home, and on his way home. And I know he comes to visit all the time. Again, thank you Lord Almighty. I love you Chase.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 May 1, 2003  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Surgery-related       Other PLASTIC SURGERY breast  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I knew something was not right when she did not look at me.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When seeing my mother and then my son at home two years later.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was very bright.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     On the way back I felt myself falling like feeling.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My mother and another woman I did not know, there was no talking, I wanted to say mom look at me I think I knew she did not know I was there.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and love all around me even when I could not see anyone.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   GREW UP CHURCH OF GOD DAD WAS PREACHER.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in God and our life after we die.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   GREW  UP CHURCH OF GOD  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in God and our life after we die.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I believe in God and our life after we die.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My son coming home to say goodbye. I know that the first out of body thing I had was so I would know he came home, God gave that to Chase because he was a good kid and was leader to about one thousand kids who came to the funeral.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Oh my God everyone, say friend and family the day my son died I said goodbye that morning and walked in the house and said to my husband that looked like a goodbye look but I did not want to let it get to me I don't know what it was but I never would think of again that day until he did die.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     God had a reason I was not to know for two years now I do.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am tired my heart hurts for my son.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I believe in God and our life after we die and we do see who is with us when we die.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tina_j_nde.html