{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tina_k_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Tina K Probable NDE 9484","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tina K Probable NDE 9484  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tina K Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5100 Tina K Probable NDE 9484  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was in the dentist office getting a cavity filled and the dentist administered laughing gas as the anesthetic. 

The next thing I know I was in a very bright light with beings that looked like white shadows. I could tell I knew these beings. I felt great love and Happiness for them and they seemed to have love and be happy to see me. I was being asked what it was like on earth. I remember it was like a rush to be able to feel jealousy, hate, anger, etc. There is no want for anything that even those feelings were like a thrill kind of like skydiving. I was taken to see Jesus and remember feeling like I was getting ready to see a famous rockstar. I was so nervous. I remember feeling embarrassed because I did not lead more people to God's word or even pray very much. Jesus told me that he understands the distractions of earth. I promised him I would do better. My family and friend beings asked if I was ready to go back. I remember saying "no." They asked if I would miss my husband. I remember asking why would I miss him, as I can see him and my kids at any time. They told me that my husband and kids would be sad and I remember thinking that that's silly for them to be sad when I am so happy and loved. Then they yelled for me to "go back!" 

And I was back in the dentist chair with the dentist doing a sternum rub and saying I'm not supposed to go to sleep. He then told the nurse. To just give me oxygen. The dentist and the nurse seemed a little shaken but they didn't act like anything was wrong. The dentist finished up quickly and they got me on my way.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1999  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.     While under general anesthesia      Other I was at the dentist for a regular appointment  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt that in heaven I could see and knew everything.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was in heaven talking with the beings  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time seemed to stand still. No time seemed to lapse at all.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I've never seen colors or smells like that before.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No difference  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't remember a tunnel  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     All the other beings in spoke with I recognized as friends and family.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was just bright, but not blinding.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was just bright but not blinding. But all the beings were white shadows.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness & peaceful  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Yes, I understood everything. It was like being hard wired in my mind to the universe.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will  The beings that I understood as family and friends all yelled at me to leave and I was back in my body.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Non-denominational  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I pray more.  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Non-denominational  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I believe in Jesus but there's always that nag in the back of your head if it's not true.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am listening to my spiritual guides more  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   All beings I understood as people I knew but could not tell you who they were.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I was led to Jesus and spoke with him. I did not see him physically but recognized the being I was with as Jesus.  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I was made aware that this is something our souls do is enter the world to experience life. Because the beings in heaven do not need or want for anything and have love for others all the time. And it's almost like an adrenaline rush to feel these other feelings. But it's almost like a contest to see who stays more faithful the Gods word. Even though we don't remember to do so.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     All of heaven felt like oneness with everyone.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I was taken to talk to a being I recognized as Jesus.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     It's like once you are in heaven you realize you are supposed to bring as many souls to Jesus as possible. But while on earth all those memories are gone.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Leading people to Jesus is love.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I am not scared of death. I sometimes get excited to be able to go there again. But I love my life now, so heaven will have to wait.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I say I love you more and am more affectionate.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   No one really spoke it was all in the mind.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  It was something that felt like an honor to get a glimpse into.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I feel my spiritual guides but they don't always make themselves known.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that there is a god and heaven.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me 15 years to share this with my husband. He didn't believe me. He thinks it was a dream. Not an actual experience.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have heard about them.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was in awe that I got to have this experience.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     There was no reason in my mind that I would have or should have made this up and I have never had another experience since.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       None  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tina_k_probable_nde.html