{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 7724 5295 5387","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v1_circular_n2_december_1883.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V1 Circular Number 2 December 1883 ","mylang":"de"}
,Oirel/lm' No.2. 303. .
To Jembers and Associates of the Society for Psychical Research~
.--~
OIROULAR No.2.
(THIRD EDITION).
ON DREAMING AND ALLIED STATES.
14, DEAN'S YARD, WESTMINSTER, S.W.,
December, 1883.
Ir is increasingly recognised that the phenomena of dream, somnambulism,.
and hallucination, form an important and promising branch of physiological
and psychological inquiry. Much has been already done to trace the genesis.
of dreams, to classify the stages of subjective illusion, and to discriminate
the various sorts of abnormal consciousness. But nothing like the necessary
completeness of generalisation can be obtained without a very much wider'
basis of observed fact. There are obvious difficulties in collecting a large
mass of exact statistics on these vague and multiform phenomena by the
process of private inquiry. The Oouncil of the S. P. R., however, are
encouraged, by the abundant response which previous appeals of theirs have-
met with, to hope that in this department also they may be able to draw
information from a wider area than is easily accessible to individual effort.
As a beginning, they hope that all the Members and Associates of their own
Society will be kind enough to give replies to the accompanying list of'
questions. In the eecond place it is earnestly requested that this Oircular
may be given to as many persons as possible who will undertake to answer
it, without any selecti<n~ of those, persons only who have unusual facts to.
relate. One of the main objects in view is to ascertain the "elative frequency
of certain phenomena, among persons in ordinary health; and that object
'WO'!Ud be defeated if r'.plies 'Were received O'!lly from tk08e 'Who have e;,;perienced
the phenomena. Should any of the information supplied ever be published,
nameswill be suppressed, unless their publication be specially authorised.
L DREAMS.-(I) Can yO'!& "eeaU that you have ever, in the COW'3e of the' last
ten years, 'When in good heallh, had a dream of the death of some per,oo known
to you (about 'Whom you 'Were not ana:iou.s at the time), 'Which dream you ma,-ked
as an e:weptionally vWid one, and of 'Whic1. the dist"essing impressi<nl lasted.
jot- as long as an hO'/,r after you rose in the morning 1
Digitized by Google
-304 Circular No.2.
(2) In your experience does tbe same dream ever repeat itself on the
Bame night 1 If so, how many times does it repeat itself 1
(3) Have you, ever or frequenUy, dream-images wllich persist for an
appreciable time after your eyes are open and you believe yourself to
be fully awake 1
(4) Have you any experience of Budden dreams, so vivid that you bre
;afterwards confused them with waking impreSBions 1
n. lLu.LuCINATIONS.-Qltl'e you eller, when. in good heaZth and completely
o(ltIJake, had a distinct impression. oj suing or beinq wmhed by a huma1. being,
o()T oj hearing a voice Of· SOftnd 1"hu-A IlUflgested a human preBIJ1Lce, !Chen no
aile was there?
III. SOMNAMBULIsM.-Are you, or have you ever been, subject to
somnambulism, or has that condition in others ever fallen under your__
notice 1
IV. FAINTING, TRANCE, CoMA, DELIRIUM, AN~TREsIA..-Have you
any distinct recollection of visions or any other mental impressions,
.experienced in any of these states 1
The two italicised questions require some explanation.
TheLitersryCommittee of the SocietyforPsychicalResearch have collected
;a very large number of cases where some marked event-usually either death
·or serious danger-happening to a person at a distance, has coincided either
with the apparent perception, by some friend or relative, of that person's
bodily presence, or with an exceptionally vivid and haunting dream of him.
The reality of these coincidences is beyond dispute; and their number also
'is far greater than anyone can be at all aware of who bas not taken special
'pains to procure first-hand evidence of them. It may, however, be argued
.'that the coincidence, though real, is in every case due to chance. .Now, the
force of this argument must clearly depend on theJ1·equency of hallucinations
-of the senses, or of this particular sort of haunting dream, among sane and
healthy persons. If they fall to the lot of every one or nearly every omi, then
their total number must be enormous, and according to the law of chances it
might naturally happen that one of them here and there would fallon the
lIaIlle day or night as the actual event. If, onthe other hand, such experiences
are comparatively rare, then the cases which have been simultaneous with
the actual event form too large a proportion of the whole number for the
,coincidence to be attributable to chance. For the decision of this point, it
.is of fundamental importance to ascertain how far the number of those who
.have not had these experiences exceeds the number of those who lWIIIJ had
,them. Anaccurate result is far from easy to obtain, however wide the range of
Digitized by Google
CirClllar No.2. 305-
inquiry be made, for' the reason above suggested-that those who have
nothing of positive interest to relate are naturally less communicative than
those whose experience has been to some extent remarkable. For our pur-
pose it is, of course, 688ential to obtain a due proportion of negative answers ;
and with this object we have framed the two questions printed above in
italics in such a manner as to require no answer but "yea" or "no"; and we-,
are desirous of obtaining a very large number of such monosyllabic replies.
If any reader of this circular inthe course of the next six months will
repeat the two italicised questions ,;erbatim to 20, 50, 100, or more, trust-
worthy persons,from whom he dJ6S not klww which anstvel' to expect, and wllo
have not al"eady been interrogated by someone ella, and if he will communicate
the results, he will render us most valuable assistance : and he would add to
our obligation by inducing others to do the same. In any case where a.
---"ivid impre88ion ordream has coincided with the real event, it is particularly
requested that the person llho has had this experience will send an indepen-
dent account of it. In every other case where the answer is affirmative,
a simple "yea" will be sufficient; but we should desire to have (not for publica-
tion) the name and addrlllll of any person who answers" yes," as well as of
the collectol'. In case of negative answers, it will be sufficient if the collector
will send (not for publication) his own name and addreBS, with the words,
" Hallucinations, 20 noes," "Dreams, 100 noes," or whatever it may be, on
a post-card.
All communications should be addre88ed to the Honorary Secretary, at
14, Dean's Yard, S.W.
Digitized by Google
•
Digitized by Google
-
