{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1timothy_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Timothy T NDE 2735","mylang":"de"}
          	        Timothy T NDE 2735  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Timothy T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						913  Timothy T NDE  2735  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was living with a girl who I loved very much. We had moved recently because of an earlier attack on us by two guys. I was able to fight them off that time. But three to four months later, her ex-boyfriend tried to kill me with a crossbow but missed.

Then a couple months later, I came home from work to find two guys in my apartment weighing drugs on my table. When I asked what the hell they doing in my place my girlfriend came out of the bedroom with one guy and said, 'I let them in.' After seeing that I became very angry and threw the drugs on the floor. They said, 'That was it! You f**ked up cracker!' They chased me outside to the parking lot where one of them came at me swinging a sword. I had thought he cut my fingers off but when I looked, I had caught the sword with my hands and kicked him in the chest somehow knocking him down. Just when that happened, I heard a kind of drumming on my head. I fell to my knees to see what was causing it.

The pounding started again and that's when the pain was so bad I could not take any more pain. Blackness, and then I was looking at someone lying on the ground in the parking lot with three guys standing over him; one with a sword; one with a bat; one with a gun. And I thought, 'Hey what's going on? That's me down there.' I was rising above the buildings and trees. Just then, a Large Hand came and held my hand and then I saw HIM He was bright and had beautiful features, long silver hair and beard, along with bright never-ending gown. He didn't say a word but I heard, 'It's okay. We are going home.' Next, there was a field on the right with people working in it harvesting some kind of grain. Next to the left, there was shops and a street that was beautiful and bright. Something else I saw, benches, like bus stop benches, that was weird. Then I heard the most calming and peaceful voice saying to me. It's Not My Time Yet! Somewhere along this journey, there had been a kind of screaming and kicking going on within me. I was saying, NO, NO, NO. I can't leave without saying goodbye to my family, I love them, please NO.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	8/10/1991   

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Criminal attack   Direct head injury    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   This is hard to explain. I was attacked by three men who were armed.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't understand. It was the minute I left my body I guess.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    When the hand came out of nowhere I felt at ease, calm. The voice saying it's not my time yet.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The Large being was on my left and was holding my hand.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     A street with shops on the left and a field of gold grain  with benches  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Pain at first. Then afraid of being left alone. Then love and anger.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Iam not religious went to church as a child  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Very much so. Not afraid to die. I know where I'll be going, I'm not alone.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'I am not religious , but saved by grace from my Creator i still go to church sometimes'  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Very much so. Not afraid to die. I know where I'll be going, I'm not alone.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My selfish needs and thoughts are not important. That though life is hard we have someone to hold our hand.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because I did not know how to say (I don't want to go away from loved ones).  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     That there is nothing to fear in death. I mostly come in contact with older adults.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That someone was holding my hand and walking with me through this.  That love is a power that knows no boundary even in death.  (The hair on my neck and arms just stood up, wow!)  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Three years. Oh they had no idea that really happened to me.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   My mother told me a story. No but I believe in hell now.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     After three or four days something just felt different.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was my experience and only mine. I am a unique person.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       FORGIVENESS that's what it's all about.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It's kind of weird but my experience is very different. Right.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1timothy_t_nde.html