{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tim_vz_nde.html","mytitle":"Tim VZ NDE 16134","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tim VZ NDE 16134  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tim VZ NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5331 Tim VZ NDE 16134  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    July 26th, 2019, dawned with the promise of a perfect summer day. The sun hung high in the sky, casting its brilliant rays over the coastline, as if nature itself conspired to create a memorable experience. That day, I decided to head to the beach with two of my dearest friends, Sarah and Michael. The anticipation had been building for weeks, and we couldn't wait to revel in the simple joys of sand, surf, and sun.     

    The beach, a place we held in reverence, unfolded before us like a tranquil paradise. Golden sands stretched out as far as the eye could see, kissed by the gentle caress of the azure waves. We set up our beach haven with umbrellas, blankets, and a cooler filled with ice-cold beverages. Music filled the air, providing a soundtrack to our day of leisure.     

    As the hours drifted by, we found ourselves immersed in laughter and heartfelt conversations. The contents of our cooler seemed to multiply, and we savored each sip of our chosen libations. The world outside our beach haven became a distant memory, and we reveled in the sheer joy of being alive and surrounded by the best of company.     

    As the sun began its slow descent toward the horizon, casting an amber glow over the beach, we decided it was time to embrace the cool embrace of the ocean. The waves beckoned us with their tantalizing allure, and we waded into the water, letting the gentle ebb and flow soothe our senses.     

    Perhaps it was the heady combination of sun, fun, and the refreshing sea, but we ventured farther from the shore than we'd initially planned. The waves, initially playful, grew stronger and more unpredictable with each passing moment. Yet, we felt invincible, caught in the euphoria of the day.  

       It was in this moment of reckless abandon that disaster struck. An enormous wave, as if summoned by the sea gods themselves, crashed upon us with ferocity we couldn't have foreseen. Panic surged as the unforgiving waters pulled us under, drowning our laughter and carefree spirits in an instant.  

    Amid the chaos and darkness, as my body struggled against the relentless currents, my consciousness began to drift away. I felt weightless, as if I were being carried by an unseen force. It was then that I saw it—a brilliant tunnel of light, radiating warmth and serenity. It was a beacon of hope, drawing me toward it with an irresistible pull.     

    As I entered the tunnel of light, I was bathed in a profound sense of love, peace, and joy. It was as if the light itself held the secrets to the universe, whispering promises of boundless understanding and unity. In that luminous embrace, I felt a profound connection to everything that had ever existed—a love beyond measure, a peace beyond description, and a joy that transcended earthly experiences.     

    I wasn't alone in this celestial passage. Beside me, there was a presence, gentle and reassuring. It was my spirit guide, a being who had journeyed with me throughout my life, offering guidance and protection in ways I had scarcely comprehended.     

    In this timeless place of light and love, my spirit guide wordlessly conveyed a sense of purpose and guidance. We moved together through the tunnel of light, leaving behind the confines of the physical world and entering a realm of pure spiritual energy.     

    Emerging from the tunnel of light, I found myself standing before a magnificent structure—a Roman-style building of grand proportions. Towering pillars adorned with intricate carvings rose into the heavens, and the air was thick with an otherworldly serenity. A soft, golden light enveloped everything, infusing it with a sense of divine beauty.     

    Before me, three ancient and wise beings stood in solemn welcome. Their eyes held the wisdom of epochs, and their presence radiated an awe-inspiring authority. Although their gaze was penetrating, it was also imbued with an extraordinary compassion and understanding. It was as if they had been waiting for me, with knowledge of my very essence.     

    Without uttering a word, they delved deep into my soul. Their scrutiny was thorough, revealing facets of my existence I had barely acknowledged. They unraveled the tapestry of my life, inspecting my choices, my joys, my sorrows, and my aspirations. In their presence, I felt an overwhelming sense of introspection, as though my entire existence was laid bare before them.  

       As I watched the events of my life unfold before me, I felt an inexplicable connection to each moment, no matter how significant or seemingly inconsequential. The moments of kindness and compassion radiated with a profound light, illuminating the path of my journey. However, there were also moments of selfishness, hurt, and indifference, which cast shadows upon the tapestry of my life.     

    I experienced a life review—a journey through my own history, guided by the wisdom of these ancient beings. Each memory contained not only the events themselves but also the emotions, intentions, and consequences that had flowed from them. It was a revelation of interconnectedness, a realization that my actions rippled through the lives of others and reverberated through the cosmos.     

    In this sacred process, I gained a deep and profound understanding of the interconnectedness of all beings and the power of our choices to shape the world around us. It was a reckoning with the impact of my actions and the opportunities for growth and transformation that they offered.     

    Just as I began to feel the weight of their scrutiny, the three wise beings shared their collective wisdom with me. Their communication transcended the limitations of language, as their thoughts and insights flowed into my consciousness with perfect clarity.  

       They imparted truths that transcended the boundaries of human comprehension. I felt as though the very secrets of the universe were being unveiled before me. I was filled with a profound sense of connection to the cosmos, a feeling of oneness with all of existence. It was a revelation that expanded my understanding of reality beyond measure.     

    These ancient beings were not judges in the conventional sense; rather, they were guides and mentors, offering wisdom and insight to aid in my spiritual growth. Their presence conveyed a profound sense of compassion and a desire to assist in my journey toward greater understanding and enlightenment.     

    But as swiftly as I had arrived in this ethereal realm, I felt myself being drawn away from the presence of these ancient beings, back to the world I had known. Their parting gaze held a promise of transformation and a charge to carry their wisdom with me.     

    In an instant, I was once again engulfed by the turbulent waters of the ocean, struggling for breath and life. As I broke through the surface, gasping for air, I realized I had been granted a second chance. I had been given the opportunity to carry the lessons from the other side back into the world of the living.  

       The experience left an indelible mark on my soul, a reminder of the profound mysteries that lie beyond our mortal understanding. I knew that my encounter with those wise beings in the Roman-style building, preceded by the tunnel of light and the presence of my spirit guide, had forever altered the course of my life.     

    As I lay on the beach, my friends rushing to my side, I couldn't help but feel a profound sense of gratitude for the second chance I had been given. I knew that I had been touched by something greater than myself, something that transcended the boundaries of time and space.     

    From that day forward, I embarked on a journey of self-discovery, seeking to live a life that aligned with the wisdom I had received on the other side. I carried the lessons of compassion, understanding, and interconnectedness with me, knowing that they held the key to a more meaningful existence.     

    In the years that followed, I found myself drawn to the study of philosophy, spirituality, and the mysteries of the universe. I shared my near-death experience with others, hoping to inspire them to seek a deeper understanding of life's mysteries and to embrace the beauty and wonder of existence.  

       My encounter with the three wise beings in the Roman-style building was a reminder that life is a precious gift, a fleeting moment in the grand tapestry of the cosmos. It was a reminder to live each day with purpose and gratitude, to cherish the moments of connection, and to strive for a deeper understanding of the mysteries that surround us.     

    In the end, my near-death experience was not just a brush with death; it was a journey to the other side, a glimpse into the infinite, and a profound awakening to the beauty and complexity of the universe. It was a reminder that, in the end, the most important thing we can do with our lives is to seek knowledge, understanding, and connection, and to carry the wisdom we gain on our journey with us, wherever we may go.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tim_vz_nde.html