{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1timi_g_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Timi G Probable NDE 2826","mylang":"de"}
          	        Timi G Probable NDE 2826  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Timi G Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						963  Timi G Probable NDE  2826  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I set off down a long tunnel, at the end of which was a dot of light. As I went along, I thought, 'Oh, good. I'm dead.' When I reached the end of it, there was bright sunlight, and I was walking in a landscape. I walked over to a building like a church hall, and went in. The floor was of pine floorboards, and I noticed with interest that there must have been many parish dances, as the knots in the wood were standing proud of the rest of the floor, and were very polished.

I spotted a piano standing by the far wall of the hall. Strangely, it was on part of the long wall of the hall, not up at what I perceived to be the front of the hall. I placed my hands on the keys, about to play one of Mendelssohn's Songs Without Words, which I had already played when my father died, and which I thought would summon him to my side.

At this point, someone took hold of me by the shoulders, spun me round through 180 degrees, and gave me an immense blow between the shoulder blades.

At this moment, I was back in the bed, with a nurse having just started a blood transfusion into me. No one had touched me while this was going on, and I was not resuscitated by any medical means.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 9 June 1972  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Childbirth       'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was giving birth, and the baby and the placenta both arrived with one push and there followed a massive hemorrhage.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I found the piano.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember there being any sounds.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It appeared very long, and the light at the end was just a mere dot. I seemed to travel for quite a long time before I go to the end of it.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I didn't actually meet anyone, but I knew my father would soon come for me.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light started out as a dot at the end of a very long tunnel, and eventually got bigger until I came out into the open.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     As above (#3), a church hall, previously unknown to me.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy that life was over (I was not in any way depressed at the time). Curiosity. Anticipation of the joy I would feel when my father came for me.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Church of England.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     As it is now thirty-four years since this experience, my religious area has obviously developed, but how far that is as a result of this experience I cannot say.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Quaker  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     As it is now thirty-four years since this experience, my religious area has obviously developed, but how far that is as a result of this experience I cannot say.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Only a feeling of recognition of what I thought was happening, i.e. that I had died.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The night my father died, I was at our home, and at about midnight I was impelled to play a certain one of Mendelssohn's Songs Without Words. I later discovered that this was at exactly the time he died. So it did not seem strange to me that I was once again impelled to play this piece.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my husband fairly soon after this (as I was extremely ill, I can't exactly remember how soon, but certainly within days of the experience), and he was accepting. Anyone I have told has seemed to accept that I had this experience. I don't know if it influenced anyone.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Everything was so 'likely' - the friendly well-used church hall, the idea of playing that piece for my Father - that I was convinced that it had happened, and it has made me a lot less afraid of dying - I still fear the actual process, but not the outcome.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The same as above.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No. But I had my first strange experience when my father was dying, and I felt the presence of his (late) mother at the bedside.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1timi_g_probable_nde.html