{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1timothy_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Timothy A NDE 7159","mylang":"de"}
          	        Timothy A NDE 7159  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Timothy A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3627 Timothy A NDE 7159  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember getting electrocuted and then darkness came. I was then five to six feet above my body, moving upwards, and looking down. I could see myself lying on the concrete floor. I could see much more than what my eyes normally could see. My scope of view and clarity were enhanced. I could see everything except what was behind me, above me technically. 

I could hear people talking upstairs but it was inaudible; it was as if they were very far away. I continued to float up into the air. It started to get dark but then I was covered in light. Pinkish light, the best I could compare it to would be: pink clouds at sunrise, but warmer. I was surrounded by it and it was moving around me in a downward motion. When it stopped, I could see the pink light all the way into the horizon. I saw no relatives or anyone else except one figure. I couldn't make out any features because it was too bright. It spoke to me but it only said ‘not yet’ and I fell back down and woke up uninjured on the floor. 

Since my experience, I have found it hard to justify my continued existence. I want to get back to the pink light.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1995

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.  Other: Unknown. Medical treatment was not sought. I was alone at the time and after the event, I was afraid to say anything.  I was in the basement of my aunt’s house alone and I put my hand in an exposed electrical box. After that my experience began.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  Nothing that I could later verify. My scope of view was limited to the basement.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I could see more in my field of view, I could see everything like I had been looking at life through a hole in a wall and then I was free of it. Everything appeared to be more vibrant in color.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was looking at my own body from the ceiling

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I have always had 20-20 vision. During the event I felt like I could see everything in front of me, it’s hard to explain. Colors popped. It looked clear, the clearest I have ever seen.  It was almost magnified.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear people talking but they seemed very far away and muffled.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Pinkish light flowed around me in a downward motion.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The pinkish light, it was like nothing I have ever seen before or after.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Flat, bright with a pinkish light that stretched to the horizon. It was lovely.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       No fear, never afraid or concerned. I felt peaceful with a sense of security.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I felt complete like there was nothing left to learn. Complete in every aspect.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I was 5 at the time so I don't think I was even capable of  comprehending what religion was.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in God but not what the church teaches.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   I believe in a higher power but I do not attend church and have not for years.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was bathed in light and spoke with one other being. I was 5 I didn't know what was suppose to happen.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I saw the being in front of me humanoid in shape but no discernible features. It was very bright: pleasantly so. It spoke to me. It said ‘not yet’ in a strong, but pleasant voice.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Just the feeling of being complete.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     One being bathed in a bright light. Humanoid in shape with a commanding voice.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     The tunnel skyward to the plain of pinkish light. And the being who spoke to me.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt love all around me. The light was love.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown     Unknown

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There is nothing on earth that comes close to what I saw. I made the comparison of pink clouds but that really fails to do it justice.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   It is a defining moment in my life, one that I would like to get back to. It sticks out as a shining memory compared to my child hood.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have seen my sister that died before my birth. It was only verified because I was in the emergency room, my living sister had just given birth and there was a female standing beside her and she smiled at me and disappeared. Years later, I asked my mother about the woman and she started to cry and said that she saw it too. It was her daughter who had passed away from Leukemia before my time. On several occasions I have seen other-worldly figures.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing my body and the light.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was real. It happened. Being so young I didn't dwell on it for very long.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It happened. I would like to go back and see the light again.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1timothy_a_nde.html