{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1timothy_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Timothy N NDE 4321","mylang":"de"}
          	        Timothy N NDE 4321  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Timothy N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2138 Timothy N NDE 4321  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On a hot sunny day when I was a little kid I went to the beach with my parents. My father was not sunbathing and sat at the seaside fully dressed shoes and all. I was playing near the water.  I was told not to go in the water because I couldn't swim.

I don't remember why.  Suddenly, I ran into the water and was surprised that the water slowed me down. I was a very expressive and wild child at the time. The next thing I remember is that I am lying on the bottom of the water looking up into the mirror like surface of water above me. I'm not scared because now there are light stripes and beings (maybe angels?) beside me and I'm now looking at my body from above, there is also music - sounds like thousands of bright voices singing in harmony - I just want to be here forever! I will never ever forget this - this is so real, and somehow, my dreamlike bliss was interrupted by a hand that grabbed me. It was my father in all his clothes and shoes who pulled me out of my bliss and saved my life. (Thanks dad!)

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  summer 1960

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  drowning  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Just before my father pulled me up.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just before my father pulled me up.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I think I was in a doorway or beginning of a tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It fealt like an other dimension

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Bliss.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Well, in a way, I have always felt that there was more to the world than what meets the eye. I have been searching and trying out different approaches and today I think there is LOVE as a primordial energy embracing us all - we just need to be a hundred percent present and accepting of life as it is and not let our 'smaller' selves run the show.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   spiritual understanding- advaita / buddism / Christian mystic approach

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Well, in a way, I have always felt that there was more to the world than what meets the eye. I have been searching and trying out different approaches and today I think there is LOVE as a primordial energy embracing us all - we just need to be a hundred percent present and accepting of life as it is and not let our 'smaller' selves run the show.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I think the music I heard has made me very fond of music - I have even been a reviewer of ambient music for a magazine.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my parents, but I don't think they listened. I have not told anyone about this particular experience in this way before.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was real and it still is.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am sure it happened.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   In 1991 I tried regression therapy where I experienced similar blissful and dramatic experiences but these that I can't verify.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1timothy_n_nde.html