{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tim_nde_4927.html","mytitle":"Tim NDE 4927","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tim NDE 4927  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tim NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2526 Tim NDE 4927  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					During major emergency surgery for perforated diverticulitis that destroyed much of my large and small colon, I rose above the operating table. I saw everyone frantically working to save me. I thought, 'What are they doing?' Then I recognized my face and knew I had died. I was confused for a moment. I was pulled through the ceiling of the room and roof of the hospital and could see I was swiftly ascending. Then I was in the midst of a bright cloudy light with silhouettes waiting to greet me. Soon I saw my dear departed twin sister, grandmother, grandfather, and rows of departed uncles, aunts, etc.

As I approached them, amidst this incredible light of love, a voice came from the direction of the light and said, 'Tim, it's not your time, you must go back, it's not your time to be here.'

I paused then argued for what seemed like forever. No way was I returning, I loved it here and was thrilled to be with my departed loved ones again.

Each time I had a 'good' reason why it indeed WAS my time to be there, I was told the same thing, 'But Tim, it's just not your time to be here, you must go back.' The voice was extremely kind and powerful, male, and coming from the left side of the light I saw.

Finally, I realized 'who is going to win this argument?' so I thought I'd have to think of reasons to return. I couldn't think of any. Then I imagined my husband of twenty years waiting for me in the hospital waiting room. I thought that at least this time I'd speak the language, unlike the first time I showed up on that rock.

As soon as I thought, 'okay,' zoom, I'm back, awake to a horrible, noisy, too-energy filled place, buzzing with life that seemed too intense and difficult. I had a feeling of déjà vu, like the first time I was born from a warm cozy place to this hard cold noisy rock.

I no longer fear death, but I fear the process might not be so easy and painless next time, since I now have advanced cancer.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Other: Surgery  During emergency surgery for perforated diverticulitis.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Upon arrival at the destination.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Upon arrival at the destination.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed I was finally home, then I heard the horrifying news that I must go back.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see the entire past and future and present at one 'time'.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was drawn inexorably higher away from Earth at impossible speed.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw all of my pre-deceased ancestors, and heard a voice that was pure love, compassion, all-knowing, and total kind authority that spoke to me using my name.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was at once brilliant, kind, loving, all-penetrating, and in no way harsh.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was standing before a light and voice that was an etherial place of final majesty and kindness

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Profound safety and love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Somehow every past event happened instantly at the same time without judgment, I recognized my past life.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I've eliminated the middle-men (usually men) between me and the light.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I've eliminated the middle-men (usually men) between me and the light.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   When I was told I must return because it was 'not my time' I learned that when it is my time, I won't be having to do a round-trip. It was the worst news I ever heard when I was told I must return where I came from.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I've stopped wasting time on people, places and things here that are not fulfilling.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Because I no longer fear death, having been there and loved it, I have a sense of what life on Earth is really about, and people tell me I have a light or sense of serenity that's rare.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The vastness of the kindness in the voice that gave me the bad news that I'd have to return to my earthly life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I didn't share this for about ten years until I had a spiritual reawakening due to a twelve-step recovery program in 2000.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was more real than Earthly reality.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As the seventeen years have passed, the next realm seems more real every day.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tim_nde_4927.html