{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tim_nde.html","mytitle":"Tim NDE 90","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tim NDE 90  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tim NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1485 Tim NDE 90  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Woke in bed with massive pain, more than I ever dreamed possible. Felt like something pulled me out of bed. Saw and felt a mist and a blackness in a ring around me. Like a hyperspace on the periphery.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  10-23-94

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness     Full rupture of appendix with massive peritonitis.  Had appendix rupture.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It was as much as can be had with that level of sheer pain.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt time stretching, dissolving, moving in a different direction.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Low frequency rumbling perhaps.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Kind of like 'gorgons'. Dark shadowy figures.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Felt like I was in a moist landscape. Kind of like 'Dagobah' the planet that 'Yoda' lives on in that Star Wars movie.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Release, catharsis. Some bit of psychedelic perhaps.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I felt that I had gotten some heightened awareness.  I can foreshadow events now. They aren't always clear.  But I get these hunches and concepts that I invariably experience later.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw all my bad and unhealthy habits. Saw my ways of dealing with people socially, etc.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     See above.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     See above.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     See above. I also seem to be more telepathic, clairvoyant perhaps.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best -- getting the 'wake up call'. Worst -- the pain. The NG tube in my nose. Losing the muscle mass from laying on the hospital bed for two weeks while antibiotics were pumped into me. I had severe convulsions at one point because of toxins in my body. that was HELLACIOUS -- whew!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Shock, weird-out, horror. Some stopped talking to me, called me a freak.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       That song by 'Jewel' 'Only Kindness Matters' is really hitting the lesson I learned on the nail-head.  That thought of only being 'cool to all people' is the lesson that seems to have been programmed in my head.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tim_nde.html