{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tim_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Tim V NDE 4375","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tim V NDE 4375  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tim V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2169 Tim V NDE 4375  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I suddenly woke up in what I can only describe as an open space of light. I saw several human forms made of light. In the blink of an eye, two of these forms suddenly appeared on either side of me. When I looked at them from close up, I could see into their brilliance. I could see their features. One of them was my grandmother and the other was my dad. They were made of light. It was them but much younger and more perfect. My grandmother proceeded to welcome me home, not to worry we will take good care of you were her exact words. This was not speech; it was more like telepathy. I really can't describe the overwhelming feeling of peace, love, joy and RELIEF!!! I was finally back home. It was like my memory of this place was coming back. I knew so much there that I don't remember now. But I do remember feeling like I was away at school and I had finally come home. That place truly is my home and I can't wait to get back there. I did come back. I didn't want to. I felt an unseen force pull me away from them.

I felt a jolt and I woke up in my body with my son shaking my arm and saying, 'I've got him, he's back.' My first thought was how limited my body was. I had to use eyes to see, ears to hear and a body to feel. It felt awful, not to mention I was very ill. I felt trapped in my body. As I was being pulled away from my dad and grandmother, one thought was in the forefront, 'Trust in God and pray.' My dad has been dead for twelve years and my grandmother thirty. I came away from this experience knowing that we're from there not here.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1 22 09

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I had some kind of bowel attack, losing half of my body fluid in about ten minutes time. I went into hypothermic shock.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When my grandmother was talking with me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     My wife said I was unconscious for less than a minute. But to me the experience was much longer. I can't put a number on it.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The experience is so different than using your senses here. You don't use eyes, ears or your body to sense things with. I could see all around me but didn't feel like I was looking around. I could feel the love, peace, joy all over me and through me. I don't recall smelling anything.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No really audible sounds or speech, kind of like mind to mind communication.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     In the light, there were several, I felt I knew them all but my grandmother and father came and communicated with me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was all around us, not only could you see it but you could feel it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     the place I went was an area of light

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme joy, love, peace and relief.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I must admit I am a little torn, I'm a church going Bible believing Christian. My dad or my grandmother both never seemed to be very religious. But I know they are both in this wonderful place. I didn't feel any judgment or any negative feelings in any way.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I must admit I am a little torn, I'm a church going Bible believing Christian. My dad or my grandmother both never seemed to be very religious. But I know they are both in this wonderful place. I didn't feel any judgment or any negative feelings in any way.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The only thing I can say is I feel I knew so much more than what I do now. It's like my brain can't comprehend the things I knew during my experience.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm more patient with other people. I know that they're in school just like me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Some of it was indescribable. The way I felt, the things I knew.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The part where I was told to trust in God and pray.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The first thing I said when I came back was you took me out of my happy place. I didn't recall all of it at first and maybe I still don't recall it all. Once I recalled all I know now I shared it with members of my family and some people at my church.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   This was my third NDE the first was during a four-wheeler wreck. The second was during a procedure at a hospital. My third one is the one I shared with you because to me it was the most significant. All three have differences and similarities. I would like to share them all with you if you would like. I have a medical condition where my heart shuts down and I loose circulation to my brain. This has happened to me several times in my life. My second NDE was a result of one of these episodes. I suspect I have NDEs every time this happens but I just can't remember them.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As time has passed there is not a day that I don't think about it. It just can't be shrugged off. It was more real than what we know now as reality. I can't wait until I get to go back for good.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was definitely real. Like I said there's not a day goes by that I don't think about it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not that I'm aware of.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tim_v_nde.html