{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tilda_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Tilda M NDE 711","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tilda M NDE 711  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tilda M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						234  Tilda M NDE  711  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I went in for surgery to remove a cyst in my saliva gland. After the operation, while I was in recovery, I stopped breathing. At the time, I was floating, being propelled, and forward through a vast expanse of space. It was very dark but I was surrounded by such incredible love, peace and joy! I then heard an annoying sound and I wanted it to go away. The sound persisted and I started to get anxious because I just wanted to be left in peace. The sound got louder and louder and I recall thinking ‘Why don't they just go away?’ I then realized it was a person's voice telling me to breathe. It eventually ‘woke’ me up and I returned to this existence, very disappointed.


I had already been on a spiritual quest for many years, but this propelled me to action. I admit to being very angry (I think I still am) at having to ‘return’.


I spent the following years, until my illness in 1994, working daily at helping others and teaching others about the wonders and magic of the world and beyond. I felt an incredible urgency in this area; that time was very short and there was so much to be packed into it.


In 1994, I ‘crashed’ with Myalgic Encephalomyelitis (aka Chronic Fatigue Syndrome). I have known from the beginning of this illness that this was happening for a reason and that there would be blessings associated with it. I have been struggling with a terrible depression, since living with this illness is like being amongst the walking dead. I try each day to be of help to someone. My faith has not been affected. There is definitely order to this universe and it is backed by Love. That Love is what I miss so dearly.


I didn't tell anyone about this experience for a long time since it was so personal. I didn't need anyone's validation. It wasn't until I watched a show about Irish folk who had experienced the same black void (no tunnels with light in their stories either) that I felt less alone with my story.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1975

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Surgery-related     Happened during period immediately following surgery.  Wasn't breathing.I would assume the life-threatening event would be the fact that I'd stopped breathing.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Totally aware.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I felt I was millions of miles from Earth – floating, being propelled, through Space.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   I think I saw stars all around.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was so beautiful where I was - indescribably beautiful.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I sensed the importance of sharing that love, that it was imperative that I share my ‘knowledge’ with others, that time was short.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I only knew what I had to do when I ‘returned’.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Only that I had no choice - I had to return.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Had been searching since 13 yrs of age for a doctrine that 'felt right'.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     No changes in beliefs, just a sense of the desperate need to share this with others.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   We do not have the vocabulary to describe the amount of love, peace and joy that enveloped me. I found it difficult to accept having to return here.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Many paranormal events followed. I have seen spirits at the moment of the person's death, I have felt their hands comforting me, I have smelled the perfume of deceased and I have a ‘knowing’ whether something related to me or that I have been thinking about is the Truth. I have also had verification that when I have asked for healing to be sent to a friend, the friend received it. (It got to the point where the friend would call me after I had done this, saying ‘you've been doing it again, haven't you?’). I have had items ‘materialize’ shortly after thinking about them (marbles one time, another it was eyelash curlers). I know the power of thought.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best - being ‘there’. Worst - having to come back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    As above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Giving birth to my son came the closest to the joy and love I experienced.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No - you've done a thorough job. Well done!

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tilda_m_nde.html