{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1thomas_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Thomas R NDE 2657","mylang":"de"}
          	        Thomas R NDE 2657  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Thomas R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						871  Thomas R NDE  2657  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I remember suddenly being aware that I was 'floating' above a bed and when I looked down it was me lying there. It was not in any way troubling. I did not see a tunnel or light or any other beings with me but I was totally at peace. It was very pleasant and comfortable. I watched as two medical personnel came in and began discussing whether to debride the wound with a copper brush or water. I remember thinking if I were still in that body I wanted them to use water! As this was going on I was floating slightly above them then I just thought about moving up and there I was, hovering just above the light fixture. I remember reading the little identification sticker on the upper side of the lamp fixture but I don't remember what it said. For some reason I thought it was really neat to be able to just float there and read such a dumb thing. I did not see any boundaries or objects around myself, just a sort of gray fog. But it was a friendly gray fog - not frightening at all.

The next thing I knew I was in the recovery room, back in my body and with my whole face bandaged up. I told the doctor that I heard what they were discussing about the brush or the water but he did not believe me. I also told him exactly where the little sticker was on the upper side of the overhead light and he just brushed it off and said I could not know that. He said I had come very near to not being revived and was just dreaming, but I know better. Before that experience, I had always feared death more than anything else had in the world. I never went to ANY funerals because of that fear. After the experience, I have never again feared death. I do not want to die but I am absolutely certain that we DO continue and it is a very pleasant experience. I felt no pain during the experience and did feel great peace. It was also a lot of fun just being able to 'float' anywhere I wanted to.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 December 24, 1971  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was riding my bicycle from a friend's house in San Diego and decided to take a short cut on the freeway for approximately a quarter of a mile to get on the strand road back to North Island Naval Air Station. I was in the Navy. The on-ramp to the freeway was steeply angled down from the overpass I was on. I did not know that a storm drain was at the bottom of the ramp. The drains 'cover bars' ran parallel to the direction of my travel. The front tire of the bike fell into the drain and I was thrown over the handle bars and landed directly on the left side of my face. I do not remember any of the actual accident, only what I was told, and going to look at the location after I recovered.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Immediately after realizing I was looking down at my own body.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Well at least I think it was more acute. When I was listening to the medical personnel I am pretty sure they were not speaking loudly but I heard every word very clearly.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, comfort, joy and a little thrill that I could 'float' (that really was fun).  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I think I was shown that very tiny glimpse of what happens after we die so I would not be afraid of death. I also think I was placed back in my body to help others as much as I can.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Since the experience I always try to understand that no matter how someone is acting there are reasons and they are valid reasons. That goes for both the good and bad. This job sometimes involves people who are less than pleasant but I always try to understand that they may just be having a bad day and try to find the good in the situation.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's kind of hard to describe in words the sense of peace I felt. It was a total peace.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It seemed to me it was a short experience but it meant a lot to me because I no longer have an overriding fear of life or death. I had a very spiritual uncle who once asked me if I knew where I was going after death, I could honestly answer him 'YES, and it is wonderful.' I don't think he really understood what I was saying.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately after I returned to awareness in my body. I had a very good friend who was at the bedside when I awoke. I told him but he did not make much of it. I have told many people over the past thirty-five years and most think it was some kind of hallucination. I do not personally know anyone else who has had this type of experience.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I don't know how to answer this. I KNEW it was real and I KNEW it was meant to teach me a lesson about life and death. I viewed, and still view, it as the most wonderful thing that has ever happened to me.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above. It was a wonderful experience that I wouldn't trade anything for.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I know I did not see the tunnel, light, other beings or other places but it was enough for me and it gives me great comfort to know, without any doubt, that death is not the end.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No suggestions just a heartfelt THANK YOU for allowing me to tell about my experience.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1thomas_r_nde.html