{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tilda_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Tilda R NDE 9621","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tilda R NDE 9621  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tilda R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5185 Tilda R NDE 9621  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  I had purchased a 'spa night' for my best friend and I for Mother's Day. I sat up when I had a wave of nausea hit.  The masseuse brought me a cold towel for the back of my neck. I waited until the nausea subsided; then put my head down on the chair to continue the massage. 

  It was like a light switch had been flipped.  I found myself in a park-like setting and looking at green, rolling hills and trees. I thought it odd because there was a pervasive, blue light engulfing everything but it was very peaceful. I felt wonderful with no pain.  I was very comfortable and calm and could feel myself smiling. As I looked around, I noticed at the top of the hill that my deceased father was waving to me. I also saw my two deceased dogs running towards me. I started walking quickly towards them. I felt so happy! 

  As I was getting closer, I heard someone behind me yelling my name. I ignored the voice and kept walking. The voice persisted in calling me, getting louder and more frantic. I got irritated that I was being called and stopped walking, saying, 'WHAT?'. 

  My eyes opened. I was sitting while leaning back with my head supported by my friend .  She was crying and trying to hold my jaw open so I could breathe. 

  My friend and I are both cardiovascular surgery and ICU nurses so have had a bit experience with dying people.  My friend told me that she thought I had died.  My lips were completely blue, my face was dusky, and I was completely limp.  While I was confused, I had no pain and only felt the peace and joy I had just experienced. I was taken to the hospital and had multiple tests done. 

  There was no residual damage and never had those symptoms or an experience like that happened again. Yet, I can still vividly see that landscape, and my father and dogs in the distance - waiting for me.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 June 1998  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         experienced vagal response for  reason, was getting a chair massage and passed out, occluding  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   I had been ill for several days before the event. If my friend had not been with me and realized something was wrong, I could have died since I wasn't breathing and wasn't responsive when she found me  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could hear my name being called over and over  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   N/A  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       shortly after I realized I was in park and saw my dad - very aware of my surroundings  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     everything had this blue light around it, not like a halo, but like a blue natural sunlight...  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    hearing was very distant, I could hear my name being called but it was very far away  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     my father and 2 of my dogs all who had died years earlier  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   blue light everywhere  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     it was a like a park - gentle rolling, green hills, trees  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       peace, joy, no physical pain, carefree, happy  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   Not sure it was a conscious decision but the person calling my name over and over began to irritate me and I was finally exasperated and stopped walking and said 'WHAT?'  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic     

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I remember thinking during the experience that 'this must be my heaven', not the traditional pearly gates, etc.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I remarried and had a child - we've been together over 20 years now  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I remember the experience and the sequence of events, but I do not remember the exact date or year  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing my father and dogs was very meaningful because I realized we really do not lose anyone - we will be reunited  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    immediately - as my friend, who saved my life, was taking me to the hospital (I refused an ambulance), I told her what happened. She believed me  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   A friend did her master's thesis on NDE based on a personal experience. I had taken care of critically ill patients who experienced NDE's and shared them with me. They recounted information they could not have really known, such as seeing specific people resuscitating them, spoke of seeing loved ones, etc.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I don't know how to explain, it was very real to me.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I remember it so clearly, from the time the 'switch flipped' to opening my eyes and saying 'what?'  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       no  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       ask for more context of the situation         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tilda_r_nde.html