{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1thomas_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Thomas D NDE 9539","mylang":"de"}
          	        Thomas D NDE 9539  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Thomas D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5134 Thomas D NDE 9539  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    It was March 30, 2021, and I was going in for surgery first thing in the morning. I was extremely tired hadn't slept and was extremely nervous. They wheeled me into the surgical room, where the doctors went over what they were going to do to me with everybody in the room. When they administered anesthesia, I heard an extremely loud gong going off in my head.  Moments later, I was floating above my body and watching the frenzied doctors work on me. I knew things weren't good, but I was being called to go somewhere else.  So, off I went. I walked through what seemed like a veil. I saw a sea of orbs with translucent bodies. I was standing on a stage and I looked down.  I said, 'Hi' to all my family and friends that had passed the through the veil over the years. One friend, who was very close to me, had passed away 20+ years ago.  She gave me the biggest hug and just wouldn't let go of me. Of course, I responded in kind.

   This is where things start to get weird.  On my left, a door appeared. I recognize the door as my 'pain and anguish' door. It's where we lock up our pain and anguish. My friend told me to hold on to her and I do so. All the people I watched pass away in my life, went through this store with smiles on their faces.  They started kicking all the doors down the hallway that were behind my door of anguish. The wave of pain that came at my friend and Is was massive. I had no idea that I had locked up so much pain. 

  I now try not to do that anymore and I've learned to leave that stuff here on earth where it manifests. I cried uncontrolled for weeks afterwards dealing with this stored-up pain. 

  The next thing that happened was a bar that appeared over my head and sprayed me with some kind of energy or electricity over me. Afterwards, I looked down and saw a black puddle beside me. I asked my friend, 'What is this?' She replied, 'It's the guilt that I installed on myself because of what she did. You no longer need to carry it anymore. It was not yours to carry.' She was excited and pleased that I released the pain.  She gave me more hugs, love, and kisses. She also said for me to, 'Let it go because I couldn't have changed the inevitable.' I told her that I disagree. I let it go because I love her.  

I felt a massive feeling of acceptance, understanding, and above all - love. All I could see was white light.  I heard hundreds of voices in my head telling me all sorts of things; many of them were confirming what I already knew but wasn't sure. I'm still filtering out those conversations.I'm loving every second of my experience and it is jarring to be ripped out of this beautiful cocoon of love and back into my body. I'm not sure what happened but apparently I left my body again 5 minutes later and was gone for another 5 minutes. I can only summarize that I wasn't done talking to my people but they did give me a choice to stay home or I could come back. I chose to come back.

  I came to in the recovery room.  My surgeon whispered in my ear that the surgery was canceled because things went sideways and they weren't sure what happened. Then, I open my eyes.  All those doctors were standing around me looking shell shocked with eyes looking like plates. I asked if they were okay.  The head doctor responded, 'We're fine. You're not.  Now, lay down.'   

I had to go for tests a couple weeks afterwards. The doctors never came up with anything conclusive as to what really happened. I'm not allergic to anything, although my lungs are poor from working in the mines.  So that's what they blamed it on.    

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 03 30 2021  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Brain surgery  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I came home to check on my family and they were fine so I carried on  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I was able to take in so much that was going on around me, not to mention that I was talking with my mind 
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     Time was not  important. It didn't matter and seemed irrelevant  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It seemed way more clear and precise  

  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing didn't matter everything was telepathic  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

  Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain.     I went so fast I'm not sure. I'm guessing I did pass through a tunnel.  
  
Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

  Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     All my deceased friends and family greeted me;  my grandparents, my wife's grandparents, and my friends.  I saw all my family, and my great aunts and uncles. They were all there  
  
Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

  Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The lights were above me and all around the whole area like tunnels going to different places  
  
  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     All I could see was a sea of orbs with translucent bodies and above them tunnels of white light all around us  
  
What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love acceptance understanding  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   Our creator told me I haven't seen what I came to see. So I chose to come back. I had a choice to stay home but I chose to come back  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:       

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic     

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience. I've always believed there was something bigger. Now, I know we are part of something awesome  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     A lot more understanding and acceptance of the world and its events  

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   I spent some time with our creator talking it's a them or are they it's an entity of many and the understanding and acceptance they have is amazing they told me I came here to see something I haven't seen it yet do I want to come back thus I was given a choice by our creator  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I still to this day don't know what it is I came here to see but I'm waiting I think I'll know it when I see it  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     We are all brothers and sisters  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I was talking to our creator for who knows how long and they answered all my questions and then some and have left me to filter out that conversation they answer you everything at once  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I think the purpose I went there for was so my friend could move on they couldn't move on with me carrying that guilt  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Be kind be understanding except people for who they are love and be loved don't waste your time working your life away  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     We're immortal we don't die we only grow this is our video game here gang  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     We're supposed to try and love each other unconditionally quit judging each other get along who cares if they got something better or bigger learn how they do it so you can make yourself better don't hate on them learn from them  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I refuse to get angry anymore it's a waste energy I don't waste my time on people that are users and don't love you I spend my time loving the people I love and taking care of my bubble  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am now able to visit my family and friends on the other side should I need to  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It's all meaningful to me I'm going to work on getting better and try and help everyone I know in any way I can  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It's almost a 50/50 some people are terrified and run away and some people want to know every detail and find it extremely awesome  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It's definitely real I talk to my guides I talk to my family my friends that are not on this world anymore they tell me things I do them and things work out really well for me  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Life is awesome enjoy every moment make the best of it that is what I've learned even the bad is good for you  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It's funny I came back with only one question is it possible for Humanity to love and accept each other without judgment that's what I got out of this  

  Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Seems to cover most everything. Have a good day and bless you all         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1thomas_d_nde.html