{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1thomas_m_nde_7785.html","mytitle":"Thomas M NDE 7785","mylang":"de"}
          	        Thomas M NDE 7785  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Thomas M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4024 Thomas M NDE 7785  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was beaten by three aggressors and went into cardiac respiratory failure. 

After this, I felt like something had taken a hold of my spirit, soul or energy source, and was forcefully pulling it out of me. I know it was forceful because it felt as if my energy source was resisting. Gradually it began to be pulled out the top of my head.  It felt like a rubber band stretching out but finally it gave up resistance and it all came out of the body.  As I was floating above my body, my first reaction was to tell myself to move but my body refused to move. I don't know how long it took but I finally realized that I was dead. With this realization came a feeling of extreme distress.  I kept worrying and wondering what to do about it next.

At this time a voice came to me from somewhere and it told me to stop worrying as all my troubles had stayed behind with my body. After this I felt a sense of wellbeing that I never felt before or since.  It felt like I had been carrying the weight of the world on my shoulders and someone had liberated me of this burden.  Then, I went through the ceiling and entered some type of tunnel where I traveled at extreme speed.

All I have related to this time felt completely real, but what happened next felt like a dream. In this dream my sister and grandmother came to me and told me that it was not yet my time, with this dream I awoke, apparently I had been taken to a nearby clinic where I had been resuscitated.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  09|21|2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack. Criminal attack.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Three aggressors beat me and I went into cardiac respiratory failure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I heard a voice that told me not to worry anymore.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt totally aware of my situation and surroundings.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the moment I left my body until the time I started to travel through the tunnel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was weak and physically hurt.  It took some time to heal, but later on, I was able to ponder on what had happened and realize that there is something else besides our current reality.  In fact, I look forward to going back.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I do not feel like my hearing has been affected by this experience.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I went through the ceiling and into a tunnel where I began to travel at great speed.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     This part of my experience seems more like a dream, and I think my dead sister and grandmother came to me and told me to go back as it was not yet my time.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I know I was in a tunnel and that I was traveling at great speed, but I don't recall having seen a light at the end of the tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I didn't feel happiness or sadness, at first I felt distressed but after the voice told me not to worry and I acknowledged my death and the fact that I didn't have any reason to worry anymore, I felt liberated and a state of ecstasy and well-being.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   My only religious belief at the time and present, in regards to a supreme being, would be as an energy field of sorts.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now talk internally with my dead sister and grandmother, as well as other people who have passed away.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   My only religious belief at the time and present, in regards to a supreme being, would be as an energy field of sorts.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had no though what so ever regarding this issue before my experience.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     It definitely changed me although I can't say whether it was the event alone or the fact that we all view life differently as we get older.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   The voice that told me not to worry anymore, as my troubles were left behind with my body.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Even though it felt like a dream state the presence of my sister and grandmother tell me that there is something beyond this existence.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     The voice did tell me not to worry anymore as if the place where I was about to enter was free of this concepts.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       The more I get to know about the irrationality of other human beings, the more disillusioned I become with them. I find myself becoming more and more isolated from other people.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes The more I get to know about the irrationality of other human beings, the more disillusioned I become with them. I find myself becoming more and more isolated from other people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I get these dreams that seem more like visions, in many cases I view world events to come.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The peace I felt when I accepted my own death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I don't recall how long it took me to share my experience, but I have told a couple of people, a childhood friend and my current wife, in the case of my friend I guess he acted with polite disbelief and my wife, well I don't really know how she took it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I never doubted the reality of my experience, it was too real and the feeling of liberation and wellbeing was absolute.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I never doubted the reality of my experience, it was too real and the feeling of liberation and wellbeing was absolute.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have become a little curious about the subject and done a little research, not much mind you, but from other people's experiences none of them say how they exited their bodies, they just limit themselves to say 'I was outside of my body'.  I know how I exited my body, it was through the top of my head and it felt like something had taken hold of my soul and forcefully pulled it out of my body. It felt like a rubber band coming out of the top of my head. This is the real reason I'm contacting you now, to see if I'm the only one who had this type of experience.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, I just hope that after having spent all this time filling out this extensive questionnaire, you can give me a little insight in regards to my only question.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1thomas_m_nde_7785.html