{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1thomas_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Thomas F NDE 2117","mylang":"de"}
          	        Thomas F NDE 2117  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Thomas F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						564  Thomas F NDE  2117  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  It was irreversible fear. I knew something was wrong right away. My heart felt as if it was beating out of my chest so fast words could not describe. I was gasping for breath. I was only 22 years of age and had no religious faith. I was slowly beginning to question my survival. I was able to remain conscious until the ambulance arrived. When they hooked me up to the heart monitor, I was running at about 160 beats per minute. I was rushed to the hospital. Upon arrival, I was taken into the emergency cardiac section. Doctors and paramedics continued to try to get my attention. They were asking me what my pain levels were. I had no chest pain, just 180 bpm irregular heartbeat. 

I blacked out. Then I was hovering over the room and myself. I could see the intravenous and other things in the room, but the people were very hard for me to see. I shot off very fast leaving everything behind. There was no sound, only images. For several minutes I hovered over a large black pyramid object, I then shot off faster than before. I was moving through what seemed to be space. Planets and stars seemed very close to me. Still there was no sound. I felt complete peace and felt as if I was on my way to some place special. Faster than I left, I was back. 

I opened my eyes. About six people were standing around me. One woman smiled at me and said 'We thought we were going to lose you'. My return back into my body was more of a forceful entry, not anything gentle. After my experience, I started to question a lot about life. I turned my attention to meditation and spiritual work; I was seeing and hearing things I could not explain. I know what they are now so I pay close attention. I do healing work. I’m one of those who came back with some strange abilities such as seeing auras.

I am very intuitive and I never was before, I am very close to my spiritual side. Even if it’s not god directly I do believe in universal energy and I truly feel that is what I was returning to. Good luck to all who have truly shared in this experience. The final stage of my journey was the most wonderful before I returned. Where I once had a fear of death there is only peace. None of us can escape it. Just know it is not the end. This body is just the first stage in many transitions before us.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 9/1998  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         metro valve prolapse of some kind.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As I was moving through what seemed to be a vortex in space things began to slow down as if I was approaching my end. I felt as if I understood everything. Overwhelming strength and peace came over me.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Near what I considered to be the end of my journey.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     I was moving so fast and knew that I was, yet things around me seemed large and to pass by very slowly.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was greatly increased, I was able to see things as close or as far as I needed. There was no strain involved it was almost like auto zooming a camera. If I felt I needed to see something I just looked at it, no thought or strain required.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound at all. It was all thought, telepathic you could say. I was shown images. I did not hear voices.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Not so much a tunnel as a vortex  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   All kind of light, soft and bright depending upon how much I decided to see. Everything was up to me. Nothing was in control of my actions. There were no physical limitations.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw a large black pyramid structure, I hovered over it and stared for a moment then I was pulled off as if sucked into a vacume into this vortex. I was able to see space, large planets seemed very close and large almost close enough to touch. it was a very wonderful experience despitie what ever my body was going through.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first upon seeing the structure I was afraid. After I shot off very fast it was wonderfully peaceful, almost exciting.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        My gifts into future events did not begin to happen till after my return to my body.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I began to follow my inner voice through meditation along with the voices of others and turned all my energy toward helping others. I understand that we are all connected and that there is not one ultimate power but shared universal energy that transcends any telescope or satellite.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'Faith based, very involved with spirit meditation and listening to the soul'  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I began to follow my inner voice through meditation along with the voices of others and turned all my energy toward helping others. I understand that we are all connected and that there is not one ultimate power but shared universal energy that transcends any telescope or satellite.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   These things I would discuss only with a scientist or Doctor.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes People want to be around me more. Things just seem to go my way.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I felt a need to meditate. Upon doing so, I was able to hear voices and see things. Some might call them spirits or unearthly beings. I have the ability to see auras. I sense other people's pain and am able to heal with touch. For a while, I had brief spurts of telekinesis.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        If I could, I would go again. It feels as if you are on your way to the best place known.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me about four years.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Words cannot describe all things.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Words cannot describe all things.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Don't be afraid and don't chase it. We will all get there.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?        Everything was wonderful, I see no need to chase your own tail, you will all find out soon enough.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1thomas_f_nde.html