{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1thomas_o_nde.html","mytitle":"Thomas O NDE 384","mylang":"de"}
          	        Thomas O NDE 384  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Thomas O NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1348 Thomas O NDE 384  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was mistaken for somebody else and was assaulted while sitting in my car while waiting on a traffic light to change. I pulled my car around the corner and got out. A male subject approached me and we began to fight. He had three or four feet club, about three inches in diameter. I had the guy in a head lock and he swung the club up with his left hand and struck me on the upper left side of my skull. It was as if I was in a large church bell - there was a tremendous loud roar. Everything seemed to move in slow motion at this point. I remember trying to say something but nothing would come out of my mouth. I was told I then fell flat on my face in the street. I do not remember falling though. I do remember being on the ground and telling my friend who was with me at the time to hold me down, hold me down.

My right arm was rising up to the sky. I think there may have been a seizure. However, I remember the feeling of my body lifting as if I was going to rise to the sky. I told my friend to hold me down, hold me down. That is the last I remember before blacking out was the brightness of some kind of light, it may have been the sun. The next thing I knew, it seemed like hours had passed and I could see a crowd of people from above. I was looking down on them. I did not know what they were doing. I remember wondering why they were on the other side of the street from when I last remember being awake. I could see someone holding a person up that was sitting on the ground. I then woke up to throwing up and vomit being in-between my legs and many people standing around. I remember people and the cop trying to keep me awake. It seemed like forever before the ambulance arrived. I don't remember being loaded into it but I do think I left out of my body again while on route to the hospital. There is this vivid image of me watching the ambulance as it traveled to the hospital. I woke up as I was taken into the small hospital emergency room. They say if you have a sense of humor then that is a good sign for recovery. The doctor who first looked at me said 'Hi, I'm Doctor Dick and I don't admit.' I laughed because I thought that was very funny. The doctor was a female. Anyway, I had a depressed skull fracture and had to be transferred to a trauma center fifty miles away. My memory was very sporadic. The next thing I remember was it being the morning after. The doctor, surgeon, said it would take time before they knew if I would make a full recovery. I was in for a total of three operations over the next year.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 12, 1982

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Criminal attack    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Being beaten with a club.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It was like I was being held in an area about thirty feet from the ground - both times. While I was in the street and on the sidewalk and when I was going to the hospital in the ambulance.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was out during the time I could see from above.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seem like hours had passed when I woke from the time I went black.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    When I first started to go black there was a roaring sound - like a train or something.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a bright light. It may have been the sun. My body felt as if it was lifting from the ground.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Nothing really stands out. Just viewing from above.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I have guessed numbers. People dying. Stuff coming in the mail. Weather.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     It seems I can predict what people are going to say. Lots of things that have made me say uuummmmm!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Knowing there is life after death. I'm not sure if it was going to be good forever though. I did not make it the final destination.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It's hard some to believe. I had to tell it in court. My doctor.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   See above.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       My mother's faith in God I think kept me around. I believe in a God, just not sure who he is.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Just live right and treat everybody with respect, no matter how bad it may seem.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1thomas_o_nde.html