{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1theresa_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Theresa K NDE 687","mylang":"de"}
          	        Theresa K NDE 687  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  		  				  					Theresa K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						223  Theresa K NDE  687  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I woke up out of my sleep and started chasing my cousin. The next thing I knew I heard a long buzz/bell sound then I saw myself traveling through a brick tunnel, almost as if the tunnel was traveling past me. I was not moving it seemed but the bricks around me were, I had tunnel vision so I could not see up or down on side, just part of the side and straight ahead. There was a bright light at the end of the tunnel and I could see something in between the lights, the light was blinding almost. Then I felt something saying it was not my time, go back. I was thinking to myself, what is going on?


I then heard my cousin saying, 'Theresa, Theresa?' I came back while he was in the middle of saying my name. I asked him why did he put that flashlight in my eyes. He looked at me like I was crazy and kept asking was I ok, he didn't have a flashlight. He said the ambulance was on the way. I had passed out for about five minutes, he was unsure. It was enough time for him to come back from the other end of a long hall, see something was wrong, catch the elevator down five floors call the ambulance, alert the guard and come back upstairs.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1988

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No     I was suffering from extremely heavy menstruation, I was having problems walking and standing up. My cousin came while I was sleeping and poured and icee down my top. I jumped up and chased him passing out in the hallway of the high-rise apartment. Ambula  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  If what I thought happened, happened, I was not in my body yet I was conscious. I did not see my body. I couldn't raise my hands and look at them or look down and see my toes or anything like that, it was pretty straight and narrow, nor could I see my body lying in the hallway from above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I felt I was very alert, I was me, thinking the way I always had, and there was no separation of my thoughts or memory during the experience. I seemed in this state, very alert to what was going on, me drifting through a tunnel.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    A non-ending buzzing or bell-like noise.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     It was brick and I moved very fast through it. The bricks seemed to have texture to them almost like cobblestone, rather than the bricks we use today to build homes, I cannot recall what color they had to them or if they were black, but I think they varied in different shades of dark colors. It wasn't long before I saw the bright light and wanted to cover my 'eye' but couldn't.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     I can't really remember but I remember there being a presence of other people or beings there at the end of the tunnel, about three. I was wondering before and after the experience if it was dead relatives and one I didn't know, a supreme over the others, not sure.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was very bright like being close to the sun, looking in it.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     Not during the event.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      No     I never actually got to the end of the tunnel.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I heard or understood the decision that I was to go back but the word body was not used. I was not thinking of my body or aware I was out of my body.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     It confirmed my thoughts of the otherworld or other dimensions that we interchange through. Because of what I had always thought of as a child.  I was wondering where I came from and why I was here.  I was always wondering how I got here from where I was, how it actually happened I always had a knowing that what we see here is not all there is and what the religion I was brought up in was not all literal fact.  I have and continued to look at others accounts as just that, others accounts of the otherworld, not law.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     I have always felt I know things, I used to have visions before it happened but after the experience I asked that it stop. I prayed that it would go away and I not experience it again.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was knowing that I was not crazy for remembering what I have remembered from birth and that life continues to go on after you leave here, just in a different realm. The worst part is not knowing why it happened and disbelievers, but it was very real.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I have shared it with very few. I usually don't get a reaction, other than, 'Hmm.'

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1theresa_k_nde.html