{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1thomas_b_nde_3452.html","mytitle":"Thomas B NDE 3452","mylang":"de"}
          	        Thomas B NDE 3452  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Thomas B NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1477 Thomas B NDE 3452  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was standing on top of the hood of the car but did not sense a wreck. I noticed traffic backed up for miles in each direction. I thought it was odd how I could see the sweat on the bus driver's face three blocks away like he was up close. I saw two of my schoolmates on their bike on the far corner watching something in my direction. I waved and shouted to them 'Hey, Chuckie! Here I am!' but they did not hear or see me. That's when I started to sink. I sank down into the car and awoke still pinned under the dash. I had lost a lot of blood. Blood was over an inch deep on the floorboard. At that point, I still had eyesight. After I was put on a gurney and on my way to the ambulance, I looked over to the far corner of the intersection just to see if my two friends from school were really there. They were!

I woke again in the hospital and was now temporarily blind, but I did not know that yet. I went to the bathroom down the hall of the hospital. I wanted to know why the one nurse wore blue and the other nurses wore white. I could not find any mirror in my hospital room. Slowly I realized that I was blind.

I regained my eyesight in a matter of weeks. I played pool blind, I went to school blind just a week after the wreck. I bled all over my desk a few times. I got seventy-five stitches in my forehead. The doctors said they could see the front of my brain when I was first admitted. To this day little pieces of glass comes out of my forehead.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  February 5, 1972

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury  head on collision no seatbelt  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was pinned under a crushed dashboard after my face was thrown through windshield, unconscious at first.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During unconsciousness pinned under the dash bleeding to death.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During unconsciousness pinned under the dash bleeding to death.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The bus driver's face was sweating because he wanted to go home but traffic was backed up, it was like he was right up close to me.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was temporarily blind after they sewed me up but I knew where everything was. I did not walk into walls, just like I had my eyesight.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was tested and they were surprised I could hear a few tones that most people don't but I was tested as an adult.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw the people that were really there at the intersection.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I could see there was something happening around me but I could not figure it out until I awoke.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Oh yes, since the wreck my dreams have been filled with future events I remember the dream with dΘjα vu as the corresponding real event unfolds.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   protestant

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I discovered I had a wandering soul.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I became a true dreamscaper and scenes of the future came to me about the world and personal futures not just one of them. And real time also.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The view - I was looking down on everybody. Like I was floating or standing on top of the wreck, awesome view.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My friends were astonished right away as I beat them in pool games completely blind. And yes there were so many experiences to list and most people I told thought I was not truthful or they felt I had brain damage or something.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I knew about out of body travel having lived in Virginia Beach, Virginia where Edgar Cayce used to live. I had the dream gift as a child but the wreck made it where I retained it for life.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     When it happened I was unconscious when I was awake and on the gurney I looked on purpose to see if my friends were on that far corner like I was verifying to myself that what I just experienced was in fact just what I thought it was. Even to this day my view of it has never changed because I was originally correct in my early view of it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I was on my way out. Not gone yet because I was a part of me still. But very soon I would have broken free of that attachment like letting go of a string attached to a balloon. What caused me to sink was found out as I awoke; a man was pulling a cloth away from my face. He stopped or slowed my bleeding.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Of course I have attempted in my life to harness this ability of second sight that was caused by the experience. To add to the ability I study things like psychology, ancestry, the physical brain, genetic memory, etc.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Don't drink and drive always wear your seat belt, the safety message.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1thomas_b_nde_3452.html