{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1theresa_o_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Theresa O Possible NDE 3989","mylang":"de"}
          	        Theresa O Possible NDE 3989  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Theresa O Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			1911 Theresa O Possible NDE 3989  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was as if I was part of the tides of the ocean. It was like being swept back into the sea, but in slow motion. But it wasn't the sea, it was like a tunnel, and in just a few seconds a great weight fell from me. I was free - my soul was almost instantly engulfed in the most beautiful bluish-white light. My aunt and Mary Magdalene greeted me. They spoke to me, yet they had no mouths to speak, I just knew what they were saying. It was the most wonderful, loving, peaceful feeling I have ever felt. I had so many regrets that I spoke to my aunt, because I had neglected her so badly - and yet she forgave me and told me how much she loved me. In the next instant, Jesus Christ himself reached down and picked me up. It was so much like the feeling I had felt when I was oh so small and so scared of a fire truck and my daddy had picked me up. I held him so close around his neck. I wanted to do the same, yet I felt so undeserving.

As Jesus held me, I looked into his eyes - I will never forget how wonderful and awesome his eyes were! The first thing I said to him was, 'Do you hate me because I am a drug addict?' I will never forget what He said to me, 'NO. I only want you to know that I love you.' There were other things said, then he started to set me down, and I said, 'Please don't leave me.' HE said, 'I will never give you more than you can handle.' Then I was back in my body.

I remember, I jumped out of bed, I felt so ALIVE. The only thing was I hurt around the top of my head. I felt like I had been hanging. I Hurt in my palms, under my heart, in my feet - I knew then, that I had been washed in the Blood Of Christ, my Savior. He was right, I went through the crucifixion, there was nothing in this world I couldn't handle. HE had already done that for us ALL.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1990

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Criminal attack    Other Poisoned by boyfriend

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was talking with Christ.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was talking with Christ.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There is no way to describe what I saw. I just know I feel so blessed to have been given this experience.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Very fast - like a weight lifted from me. A blue-white tunnel - four or five seconds.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My aunt. That I was so very much loved, and not to feel guilty.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bluish-white.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, happiness, contentment, fulfillment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know I knew them there, but when I came back, I am unable to share them or really remember them. All I know is that I did when I was there, have knowledge of it.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When my aunt said she forgave me for not coming to see her before she died, and when Christ said he loved me even though I was a drug addict.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it within just a few hours.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It is 2009 and it is like the experience happened to be seconds ago.  I will never forget it. It has changed my life. I get goose bumps every time I tell the story -every time I even think of it. My life will never be the same!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as I said above - it is with me always.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I just want everyone to know that there is something so wonderful and so much better than what we experience in our flesh - a life so wonderful, so full of love - a spirit everlasting!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1theresa_o_possible_nde.html