{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1theresa_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Theresa G NDE 2141","mylang":"de"}
          	        Theresa G NDE 2141  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Theresa G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						575  Theresa G NDE  2141  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I had my daughter at 12:07 pm. At 2:00 pm, I looked at the clock knowing it was time to bring my daughter in for me to see. The nurse came in and as I looked at the clock, I told her, I am sick. The nurse just took off running. That's all I remember until, I heard the nurses say her blood pressure is 60/40 then 40/20. I saw them crying. I saw the doctor come in, he had regular shoes on and clothes, he had on brown shoes with snow on his shoes. It was not snowing when I got to the hospital, and I had no idea it was snowing.

I started going through what looked like a tunnel, with a bright light at the end. I heard a voice say, 'Teri, open your eyes.' I kept saying I can't. I could hear water dripping. I heard a voice said open your eyes or you will die. The doctors and nurses called me Theresa, my nickname is Teri and I had never told them that. When I finally opened my eyes, the doctor was standing over me taking his fist and hitting me in the stomach. I looked at the doctor and told him, 'I know where it's at.' I pushed out what looked like a big blood clot. The doctor stood in shock. The water dripping sound I heard was blood hitting the floor. I lost about three pints of blood.

I was in the hospital for five days. The doctor told me he was going to send the clot off.  He thought it was a twin that never developed.  I never found out what it was. I had just turned seventeen years old and I had never heard of near death experience. The doctor came in the next day and wrote down everything I had to say. He was amazed that I knew everything they were saying. I told him about his boots having snow on them, etc.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 January 30,1971  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Childbirth       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I wore glasses at the time, but I don't remember if I had them on or not.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did have super hearing, today I have a lot of ear trouble.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I could feel my body going through a tunnel, I was laying down.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Thinking how bright the light was at the end of the tunnel. Knowing that if I didn't open my eyes I would die.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I have been able to see things before they happen.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know now for sure there is a heaven.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know now for sure there is a heaven.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     The day before Princess Di died, I told my husband that someone was going to get killed that would shock the world. I had no idea who it would be. I told my husband that I would be in a wreck and driving and glass would cut my right arm but the cuts would be minor. The next week it happened.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I think it was Jesus telling me to open my eyes, no one at that time in my family that I was close to had died.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The night when I woke up. They believed me because at the time we had never heard of things like that happening.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     That I was blessed, given a second chance.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know because it happened to me. When I opened my eyes and told the doctor I knew where it was - how would I have known that? I had just had my baby.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?        Not sure. I just wanted to tell someone. Of all the near death experiences, I had heard of years after mine I have never heard one where someone heard a voice tell them to open your eyes or you will die.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1theresa_g_nde.html