{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1therese_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Therese B NDE 5369","mylang":"de"}
          	        Therese B NDE 5369  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Therese B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2853 Therese B NDE 5369  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was 18 years old. I had been living a very destructive life for the last few years and I was staying in an institution for problem youth. I was very egotistical and tough, and I did not care for others or myself. I smoked and drank alcohol, and had no plans for my life. My life was in chaos, and psychologically, down deep, I felt very bad. One day in 1998 during the summer (or early fall – I do not remember exactly, because I did not save any newspaper clippings) a woman from the personnel department at the youth home took me shopping in Karlstad to buy me some clothes. We were finished shopping and were on our way home. The two of us, as well as some other people, were standing together by a pedestrian-walk waiting for the light to turn green so we could cross the road. Suddenly a van stopped and waved for us to cross. I looked at the traffic signal and it was green. I was the first one to walk out in front of the van. I passed in front of it and stepped into the next lane. Suddenly, I saw, out of the corner of my eye, a red car bearing down on me at full speed. I remember realizing that it was going to hit me and that I might die. 

Instantly, I am in a different dimension–in a beautiful place, which is filled with gorgeous white and golden rays of light. In front of me, there is a large group of people, looking so good and happy, all welcoming me. I feel right at home, as if returning to my real family after a long trip away. Another Consciousness is speaking directly to me, and it feels like our Father. This Being is love, safety, happiness, understanding, consciousness and freedom! I become aware that I now understand everything and that I have answers to all my questions. Now everything is very clear to me! The Higher Consciousness shows me what my life has been so far, and I realize that I have not yet done what I am supposed to do. The Consciousness helps me understand that I can choose to go back to my life on Earth, or be finished with it and move on. 

As I reflect on the choice, I realize that I have not found my purpose in life and that I want to find it.  I want to fulfill my purpose.  I know that once I have lived my life, and have done what I am supposed to do, I will return so I choose to continue my Earthly life and do the best that I can with it! 

After this, I hear someone talking to me in a worried voice. I tell her that everything will be fine, and that she should not be sad. Then I remember being in an ambulance and someone asking me for my social security number. Witnesses say that the van stopped and that I crossed in front of it, but that the light was still red, not green, the way I remember it. The red car hit me on my side, and I flew up on top of its hood, then up in the air, and dropped down to the ground, bouncing on the asphalt twice. Then I lay completely still. Everything happened in just a few seconds, but I experienced being in the other dimension for a much longer time. The woman that had taken me shopping was sure I had died, and was very shocked. I spent two days in the hospital and was fairly good considering. I only had a concussion, a broken tooth and some bruising. After the accident, I became totally different and started loving life and now I believe that we come Home when our physical body dies!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  summer 1998

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I could have died in the accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The way I experienced it, I was more conscious and aware of EVERYTHING when I was in the other dimension.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time did not exist in the other dimension – not the way we experience and measure it.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I remember all the colors are incredibly clear and beautiful! All the lights are so beautiful!  All that is there is beautiful, wonderful and enjoyable and everything is LOVE. I love everybody, and they love me. I can see everything all at the same time, both near and far. As soon as I am aware of wanting to see something, or be somewhere, instantly, I am there! I feel everything that is happening so deeply and I understand everything.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    You do not speak in words. You feel the consciousness of others instantly.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I cannot remember how I got to the other world.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There was a large group of people in front of me. Some were standing in a line and some in a group, and they were all waiting for me. They all loved me! I did not see all their faces, but all of them were surrounded by a white light. I felt that I knew them and that they knew me. They communicated love, safety and family.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There were lights everywhere around me, around the other people, and around the High Consciousness. So very beautiful!

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Jag kan inte svara på det.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt happiness, joy, unity, safety. I felt at home, and welcomed. I enjoyed a huge sense of freedom and love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw, and even experienced, different times in my life. I understood why I had acted in certain ways, or why some things had happened to me. I found out that there is a purpose and a meaning to my life.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I think that while I was in the other dimension, I was shown what could happen in the future, both in my life and in the lives of others – but it is nothing I can remember now.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Now I believe in God and I know that in that other world where I saw God, there is an existence that is much more real, wonderful, clear, and self-evident than the life we live here.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   I Believe!!

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Now I believe in God and I know that in that other world where I saw God, there is an existence that is much more real, wonderful, clear, and self-evident than the life we live here.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Absolutely! It was the very best. I took part in the Universe’s consciousness, knowledge, and purpose, and it was an incredible feeling.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes They have become much better!  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is so different in the other world, it is hard to describe in words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience was very special and meaningful to me but especially when God spoke to me (that's the way I experienced it) I learned that I was loved, and that if I really I wanted to live a good life I had the choice to do it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I'm not sure, but I think a long time passed before I could even draw any conclusions for myself about what I had experienced. I told my mother first, I think. She thought it was amazing, and she believed me. Since then, she has become very spiritual. She also reads about other experiences like this, and she believes that they are true. However, some people are skeptical and unsure and think that maybe my experience was not real, but was caused simply by my concussion.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I've always been sure that my experience was definitely real. I was very happy and excited about it afterward. Calm.  I had such a nice feeling but I did not have a need to tell others about it, because I thought they would not be able to understand it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Now I am very grateful that I got the chance to use my life for something more meaningful.  I got to feel that incredible feeling I experienced in the other world. Now I really appreciate life and my fellow human beings. And, I am not afraid to die.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1therese_b_nde.html