{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1theresa_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Theresa C NDE 5455","mylang":"de"}
          	        Theresa C NDE 5455  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Theresa C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3498 Theresa C NDE 5455  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was at home having lunch with my mother, brother and grandmother. 

I was cutting a melon with a very sharp Chinese knife and I cut my finger a little (I still have the scar). I generally pass out when I see blood so I asked my brother to bring me some water with sugar while my mom went to look for a patch. I was looking at my brother and, suddenly, I was on the top of a mountain. All around there were other snow-capped peaks and the colors of the sun were similar at a sunset. In front of me, a handsome guy shows up, with short, blond hair, dark blond, trimmed beard, and blue eyes wearing a red Colmar down jacket. He was always smiling. He told me that if I continued to be the way I was in this life, one day I would be happy.  He told me other things I don't remember, but I remember I was in peace, and serenity; everything was huge and beautiful, there was love and perfection, the universe was balance and I was in a blissful state.

Then, I remember, he told me something terribly painful. I rejected it because I felt huge pain. After that, he told me I had to 'come back' and I started yelling, 'No'. I was desperate, I didn't want to go back but two hands pushed me into the vacuum and darkness. I realized that I was about to go back to the earth and I was crying.  I felt all the pain of the world on me.  I felt the wars, the diseases, injustices, and it was all gray. I kept screaming and a hole, from which branched out a purple light, suddenly showed up in front of me. It was a tunnel and two hands pushed me inside it. The tunnel was very thin and as soon as I got in, I heard a sound like, 'wooooom'. I immediately opened my eyes and heard my grandmother screaming and I asked my mom to keep her calm. My brother called the ambulance but when they arrived, I had just become conscious (I don't actually remember anything about the doctors, except a confused memory of a uniform, maybe). I stood up and after two steps, I threw up everything. 

I don't have any other memory until the evening, when the news communicated that three guys died in a snow avalanche in the mountains that same day. I don't know why, but they showed the pictures of the three guys and the one in the middle was exactly the same person I spoke with. He was wearing the same red down Colmar jacket.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  metà luglio anno 1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    mi ero tagliata con un coltello affilato  Other: ero a casa e mi ero tagliata un dito con un coltello affilato, perdevo sangue e attendevo soccorso dai miei parenti (cerotto e disinfettante)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just at the beginning when I was speaking with the guy, and some seconds before he showed up and finally when I saw the tunnel and got in.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I just know that I perceived the infinity and universe around me.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I watched everything but it was more clear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I got in a thin tunnel. As soon as I got in, I opened my eyes and I saw the tunnel from far away. The hands pushed me in, and the tunnel was getting bigger as I approached.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I didn't know him. He was communicating with me while he was smiling, though not with his mouth, we were communicating easily mind to mind. He was in front of me on the top of the snow-capped peak.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     ero sulla cima di una montagna innevata ed intorno a me c'erano altre vette innevate, c'era una luce dorata del sole che avvolgeva tutto.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At the beginning happiness, serenity, and bliss. Then, when I had to come back, it was pain, anxiety and denial.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I don't remember what he told me.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   cattolica cristiana

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in the energies of the universe and I believe that every action done by every individual has an impact on the cosmic vibrations of the universe.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   credo che ci sia un'energia che governa tutto e che noi siamo energia in connessione col mondo, la natura e l'universo.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in the energies of the universe and I believe that every action done by every individual has an impact on the cosmic vibrations of the universe.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   We are all connected with the world and the universe, with nature, we all are one.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I don't remember everything the guy told me and it's hard to explain the feeling of frustration and pain watching the earth from up high with all the pain on it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I had those gifts since I was a child.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When I had to go back to the earth and I was perceiving the pain, and when I was living in the endless bliss.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    I shared it after 5 year. I don't remember what happened or the person I have told it to.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The reality is that there is a life after death, there are more places in the universe and other dimensions.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have been given the knowledge that there is a possibility to discover the truth.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       After the experience, I had several dreams about the hands pushing me towards a crucifix or other dimension. But they were just dreams. I was aware of that when I woke up, the feeling of the hands was the same though, and they were the same hands. I have the possibility of connecting with another dimension, even if I don't know how handle it.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       If there's light in the tunnel and what kind of colors.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1theresa_c_nde.html