{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1thomas_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Thomas B NDE 2915","mylang":"de"}
          	        Thomas B NDE 2915  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Thomas B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1015  Thomas B NDE  2915  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  Please understand, I have told very few people of this and only one of them I told everything to, as I will with you. I am afraid to tell people of this because of what it leaves me open to. At times, I think I'm crazy because of this. Well, anyway no one can pass judgment on me here.

It happened on July 4, 1974. I was six years old and was walking down the down the street holding my mother's hand. I saw a horse across the street, let go of my mom's hand and ran between two parked cars. Then I heard people screaming 'STOP'. So I stopped. The next thing I saw was a car coming toward me. I was hit, thrown through the air, and landed on the back of my head. (I was later told that it was eighty feet.) I heard screaming then everything went blank.

I do remember sirens and seeing my mom crying in the back of an ambulance. But it was from above. Then again, everything is blank.

The next thing I remember was I was floating in the most peaceful place. There was singing, which was the most beautiful thing I ever heard. Then I was approached by a man. He told me that I had to go back, that it was not my time. (I wanted to stay. I did not want to leave.) He had then shown me his wrists and right foot. There were wounds. He told me not to be afraid. He then told me that in the most troubling time in my life he would be there and to have no fear.

He then took me to a place where he then left me. Then an immense light appeared. I was told to look into it. There was an image of enormous size and distance. I was told some things, but I don't really remember what it was. I think I was told I would never come back, but I am not sure.

Then on the last part of this journey, I was sent to a very dismal place. Everything was grey. On the left side of me were dead trees. At the base of the trees was a dirt road. At the right of me was nothing but grey. (Please don't think I am crazy about this next thing. I know it sounds crazy.) I had seen animals coming toward me. There was about six or seven. A big owl like bird silently flew into the trees and perched there. The funny thing is that these dog-like animals all had human faces. In color. They told me who they were. The biggest one introduced himself as 'alcohol'. They didn't seem to be very interested in me. One of these animals got on the another's back (which later in life I realized to be sex). I can still see some of the faces to this day. Anyway, they turned around and left.

The next thing I remember was waking up in the hospital. I had a cast on my skull and was very nerve damaged. But the very first thing I said was, 'I don't want to die.' I don't know why I said that. Maybe it was because my mother said something that I picked up when I was unconscious. It turns out that I was in a coma for a month. Bad head injury.

I had amnesia at the time. Couldn't remember a thing. But as time went on and as I regained my past, I started to remember things about this. I never started talking about them until I was a teenager. Then I learned it's better not to say anything.

It's funny though, I did struggle with alcoholism in my late twenties. I have been clean for years. And last year when my world was collapsing, I developed marks on my wrists and right foot that bear a striking resemblance to the ones I had seen on the man. At that time, I was really struggling over my life and about those memories I had, if they really happened or not. I still don't know. A few years ago, I tried to get a hold of Sylvia Brown to get an answer. I talked with her son and I couldn't afford the $800.00 she charges. I tried to get a hold of the neurosurgeon who operated on my brain, but he never returned my calls. I guess I am left with the same mystery that I started with.

I just wish my life would take a turn for the better. You see, I know that I would never hurt myself in any way, shape or form. But I do feel that at this time there is no way out of the bad life I am in. So I have to do what I at least think I was told to do. Keep the faith.

I hope that someone can relate to the experience I have had. Maybe it can bring some closure to an ever embattling mind struggle that I deal with every day.

This is the truth, as for the things that I recall; I do know that I should not bear false witness to this. That would be wrong. So please, somebody has to believe me. I am not crazy. Thank you.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'July 4, 1974'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury  I ran in the street between 2 parked cars to see a horse on the other side of the street.  Other I imagine it was a clinical death in the ambulance  I was a six year old who had been hit by a speeding car. I was thrown eighty feet and landed on the back of my head.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As described.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I don't know.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The singing I heard was beautiful.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't remember.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As described above.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     Where iI was  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, serenity, joy.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     I was only six years old.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   none. I was too small to have a knowledge of religion.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Catholic.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The last person I told was a counselor whom I was going to about this and some other things.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     Sorry, it took me a little longer to remember.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1thomas_b_nde.html