{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1theodore_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Theodore R NDE 2711","mylang":"de"}
          	        Theodore R NDE 2711  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Theodore R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						903  Theodore R NDE  2711  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  On March 16, 2006 my seizure activity began to increase. I was having an unknown amount of seizures û unknown because my wife was working and was not there to keep track of them. As a result, I grew more and more depressed. Then on May 4, 2006 I apparently had multiple seizures and during what I call my 'buzz zone' (where I am not fully awake or not having a full seizure), I took forty 100mg tablets of the anti-depressant medication, Elavil. My wife called the ambulance and I was taken to the hospital.

While in the emergency room, I remember falling 'asleep'. When I was 'asleep', I floated above my body. I could see the doctors and nurses in my room. I continued to float away - the further away I floated, the calmer things felt around me. I heard soft, gentle sounds around me but couldn't make out any particular sound or song. Also, the further I travelled, the more I could hear voices calling to me to continue coming. I felt total love and acceptance from these voices I started seeing shapes of people but couldn't make out faces or genders - all were the same. They all showed love, understanding, and compassion for me, like I have never felt. Then I started hearing another voice telling me to 'drink this.' I didn't want to at first, but as I continued to listen, I drank the drink. It tasted horrible.  I didn't want to drink anymore but the voice kept saying to keep drinking and to drink it all and I would be all right. The next thing I remember is waking up.

I was so angry that I wasn't able to stay with those other people that I have since sought any way possible to get back to them. I can't commit suicide because I promised my wife I wouldn't do that again but I still look and hope that I can get back there as soon as I possibly can.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 May 4, 2006  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.   Illness Suicide attempt       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt healthy and didn't have any disabilities.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The part where I could see people.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Time seemed to stop  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I didn't have to wear glasses and every color was very exact.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I wasn't deaf in my left ear and all sound, even though it wasn't a clear song, was clean and clear.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Just shapes of people no features or genders.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Pure love, understanding and comfort.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Spiritual but not religious  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Same  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I can't think of anything else.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The part where the people were asking me to come and the part where I felt totally loved by all around me.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I believe in a place where we will all go to be together.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1theodore_r_nde.html