{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1terry_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Terry V NDE 3205","mylang":"de"}
          	        Terry V NDE 3205  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Terry V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1208 Terry V NDE 3205  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was sitting at breakfast table chatting to mother.  I began to feel ill.  This worsened.  Thought I was going to pass out.  I fainted but my eyes remained open.  I could see and hear but not move.  I felt desperately ill.  Then I totally lost consciousness.  My parents called the doctor because about 20 minutes had gone by and I was still unresponsive.  Just before the doctor arrived, my faculties were restored.

I traveled to a strange place, which was soft brown velvet.  It felt good emotionally.  A man appeared from my left, he had just exited a room full of people, I knew they had all passed on, I don't know how I knew I just did.  One of the people was my father who was still alive at that time. I knew my father was in that room although I could not clearly see into the room.  All the people were exchanging ideas in a really interesting discussion.   

I told the man who had appeared that I was feeling gravely ill and I asked him what I could do about that.  He told me I could come over and join them.  I told him that I had too much to do.  I had a husband and child coming and that they needed me.  I had things to do for them.  He understood and told me that in that case I should look over there. He told me that that was the source of all knowledge and from there I could receive a healing if I truly asked. I saw a brilliant, pulsating, radiating, golden 'dawn'. I asked it for help.  I had to totally concentrate.  When I did, the radiations lengthened towards me and when I reduced my concentration, they retreated. I understood and concentrated really hard.  The gold radiations reached towards me, started to 'play' on my feet and then steadily moved up my body, and as they did a feeling of wellness and well-being traveled through my body immediately behind the radiations.  I was completely restored. I called out to the radiations with grateful thanks.

The doctor asked me what had happened.  I told him I did not know but proceeded to explain my experience. He told me that he had heard stories like that many times before from patients. When I asked him what it meant he said he wished he could explain it to me but he could not.  However, his validation of my experience was invaluable.  Thankfully, he did not scoff.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    September 1968

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' .  Lost consciousness spontaneously


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I looked over and saw the brilliant, pulsating, radiating, golden dawn

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      When I looked over and saw the brilliant, pulsating, radiating, golden 'dawn'

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I moved by thinking about it.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I have poor vision all my life but not during that experience.  I could see so far and so clearly every little detail.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    My hearing was perfect.  If I chose to hear something, I just did no matter how far away the source.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     At first I was in a pathway that had soft brown velvet walls and floor.  I did not touch it I just knew it was soft.  My feet made no sound.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     A young man with blond hair, tanned face and a fancy sweater like a ski sweater approached me.  He reminded me of a cousin who had passed on at a very early age around 31.  He was a There were a group of people in a room to my left where the young man came from. I could not see them but I knew them I thought.  I could hearing them discussing various intellectual topics.  One of them was like my father who was sportsman, outside most of the time, and always tanned.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Brilliant, radiating, pulsating light.  Like the sun behind a hill at dawn.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      So calm.  No fear.  Total trust.  An inner knowing all was and would be well.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Yes.  If ever I am sick, any person I know, I close my eyes and envision the 'golden dawn' and pray to it for healing.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I have ESP and have experienced several spiritual occurrences

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      No     I could not go beyond the hill and travel right into the 'golden dawn'. It was forbidden.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   No specific denomination

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     Yes. I am much more spiritual.  I do not belong to a specific denomination because I realize now that that is not important. I strongly believe in a God and prayer.

What is your religion now?      Moderate   No specific denomination

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Yes. I am much more spiritual.  I do not belong to a specific denomination because I realize now that that is not important. I strongly believe in a God and prayer.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know that this is not the only realm or reality.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Discerning illness.  Spiritual experiences. Future knowing.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       That 'golden dawn' is the source.  Go there for your needs.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No    Told my physician in medical confidence.  Have not told any other person.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Experience was definitely real    I viewed it is a spiritual experience that was totally real from that day to this.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I know it was real and the experience I have had since confirm my belief.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I wish every person could experience this type of event.  It would be a better world.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1terry_v_nde.html