{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1terry_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Terry W NDE 3299","mylang":"de"}
          	        Terry W NDE 3299  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Terry W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1139  Terry W NDE  3299  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I felt like I was floating into this light, it was very peaceful calm. When I got to the light, I heard a voice tell me it was not my time. I had to go back. But I didn't want to, I wanted to stay there, but was told that I had to go back.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    November 19, 2006

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) I was told that i died 7 times i was hit with paddles several times while in emergency truck at hospital and my wife did cpr 2 times at home i was expired when i left medina going to Elyria hospital.  I had seven heart attacks and was expired, when life flitted by air my wife was told that it would be a miracle if I lived.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was more alert of surroundings and it was very calming and peaceful I was not scared or worried about anything.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I felt consciousness and alert the whole time it was like I was there body mind and soul.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    It was very bright and I could see things very clearly, never saw any people.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    A very soft voice and caring voice but firm letting me know I was very sick and I had to go back.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was a very bright light almost blinding and when I got right up to it, it looked like the truck that I was driving at the time for my job.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peaceful, calm no pain, no hurt, I was not scared or afraid.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   I am a born again Christian i believe in Jesus and god i had a hard time in believing in life after death

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I do now believe in life after death and that there is another realm out there.

What is your religion now?      Liberal   I do believe in life after death now very much so i was there

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I do now believe in life after death and that there is another realm out there.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I realize that my time here is numbered and I am trying to regain some relationships I have lost over the years with my son and grand kids.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     My eyesight got better and some of it I have kept.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Yes, the light and the voice and when I woke up and saw a dark figure in my room and when I woke up the person left.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I told my wife, doctors, nurses and friends. Yes there were many people when I went back in the hospital in January - they had remembered me and they all said I was a miracle.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     It happened November 19, 2006 and I can still remember the experience as if it was yesterday it was very eye opening for me and my wife.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Same answer as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      It was like I was floating toward the light, I was not walking and someone kept talking to me.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1terry_w_nde.html