{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1thera_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Thera L NDE 2800","mylang":"de"}
          	        Thera L NDE 2800  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Thera L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						954  Thera L NDE  2800  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  A so called 'spiritual questing' martial artist and craze-seeking friend manipulated pressure to different places on face and neck. I had to breathe deeply and hold repeatedly. Strangulation took place. I remember falling to the floor. I think I peed slightly. Thankfully I hadn't eaten! No sexual activity took place.

I left my body with a strange fizzing electrical sensation into light and then into a star filled black void that was full of awareness and life's precious lessons. I can remember thinking this sensation is not real and that my life was being pulled away but I wasn't scared just amazed. I then just went with it. I knew I wouldn't be returning but that didn't scare me. I calmly looked back at my family and said goodbye. I think I remember hearing from the deceased and wisdom from somewhere higher. A lot of learning went on during this time but unfortunately, now the lessons have been forgotten.

I felt at the time that everything was so clear and so important to remember. I then heard human voices and felt disappointed. 'My God she's back.' 'You went too far man!' After that, I was told that it was so incredible - I was dead for a long while. It was clear that these people had all undergone the experience but never had been 'out' for the length of time I was. It was obvious they had trouble in bringing me back. There was relief as well as some kind of praise for me. Whether it was my life's energy being sucked out of me. But if felt like there was more to it after the tingling energy had gone and I was out in space with clarity. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1995  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         experimental strangulation and pressure points provocation  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   As above.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Everything was pure clarity and deeper messages. I was able to communicate and listen at a higher level. You know lots of things at the same time.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After going through a vacuum procedure out into space. A part of it I think I can remember being carried by an aware horse and holding the mane. Going at great speeds.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Everything just so different no way to clearly describe in English.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors, depths, transparencies, field of vision, like going through the cosmos.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Clarity of sound and understanding. Hearing from beyond and above. My own voice having a knowing.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Pulled up through a tunnel of bright fuzziness into an expanse of darkness stars and awareness.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I know that I met someone wise and we talked clearly for a long while but now I have forgotten.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Many different.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I think mostly was absolutely amazing, have a feint recollection of viewing a place not quite so. But not built like a heaven or hell.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       New emotions that don't relate quite.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     But I remember looking back at my family and saying I'll be alright and knowing they would.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     As regards to religion I am not sure whom or what it was I was seeing and talking with.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   searching or awaiting answer.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     As regards to religion I am not sure whom or what it was I was seeing and talking with.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   My knowledge has been forgotten. I can remember being told not to forget something very crucial to 'life', it was made again by this person, and yep I forgot it.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm not certain how.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The sensation, the void, the slipping away and beyond. Nothing about it felt like anything I had felt before. The energy took on a different vibration. Like being sucked through a vacuum into a fuzzy but not scared place. There was clarity, messages. Most of which evaporated when bought back. The crazy group I had encountered said I had been 'out' for the longest they had known anybody to be and were relieved I suppose that they didn't have to bury my body. It took ages to feel like my feet were placed on the earth again.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Have always felt like I came back from a previous time to get somebody. Felt this like a knowing since I was a baby.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    Not in this detail. Nobody would believe it anyway.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   No but I had found myself attached like a lizard to the ceiling and looking down at myself sleeping. I had the feeling of being able to go out but thought awareness dropped me to my body which was waking.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Like I had been involved in the most strange experience that couldn't possibly be relayed to anyone else due to enormity of difference in space, time, clarity, emotion.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     At the time it felt more 'real' and that it is this life that is the fake.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Only that this account cannot possibly have the depth and meaning that it had at the time. I haven't the use of language enough to describe.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1thera_l_nde.html