{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1thaddeus_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Thaddeus K NDE3715","mylang":"de"}
          	        Thaddeus K NDE3715  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Thaddeus K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1714 Thaddeus K NDE 3715  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I'm in bed in an isolation room. There are no other persons present. I was lying on my back awake.

Suddenly, I am looking down at myself from the ceiling. My position is reversed so that my head is opposite to my feet on the bed. I see myself very clearly.

I have normal vision. Then, I am presented with making a decision, although I heard no voice.  I just had 'knowledge' that I have a choice. The choice is stay or go.

There is absolutely no value to either choice, which surprises me. Then I feel a sense of absolute calm. I choose 'stay'.

Immediately I am back in my body.

I am startled by the experience and fearful of telling anyone about it, as I know I might be considered odd and that might have a negative effect on my status.

I did not tell anyone about my experience, other than my wife at that time, for ten years.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Summer 1957

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness  Patients on clinical ward dying from Klebsiella  Other 'Klebsiella septicemia, gram negative shock - life threating'  Klebsiella septicemia with gram negative shock.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I was out of my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was out of my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       The striking aspect was the absence of emotion!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     When I saw my wife later that day her face was changed. I saw an ugliness that I had not seen before. That did not persist but we divorced two and a half years later.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     The Social Gospel now appears to be shallow. It is important but the mystical side of belief is very attractive. Thus, our choice of Orthodoxy, Icons, etc.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Orthodox Church of America

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The Social Gospel now appears to be shallow. It is important but the mystical side of belief is very attractive. Thus, our choice of Orthodoxy, Icons, etc.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain This may have had an effect on my first marriage.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have gradually become aware of psychokinesis which is definitive now, especially with delicate machinery.  Looking back I probably did have, or have, 'changes' that may be considered psychic. It is very hard to tell.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The lack of value or emotion and the sight I had of my wife's face afterwards. Now I am able to at least realize that I saw a part of her that later became very evident.  Also, within several months I became very religious and converted to the Episcopal church. Prayer became significant.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Ten years. I only shared it with persons I felt were potentially open to such an event. I did not ever disclose it during my training and three periods of analysis to any of the three analysts.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I did not want to deal with it. Finally, I had to admit to the reality of my own experience. That was hard to do. Usual reasons - scientific proof, delusional, etc.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     At this age, seventy-eight, with ongoing varied illness such a chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (stage 0) and the death of my closest friend several years ago I am aware of the approach of death. My own NDE cannot be denied by myself. This then opens many doors although St. Thomas is my favored Saint as I continue to doubt.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Looking back it is possible that it had an effect that essentially drastically altered my course in life culminating in now being married for thirty and a half years to a lady with whom we share a profound love that is deeply spiritual as well as sensual. Our marriage is not 'explained' by 'rational' or usual factors. The best we are able to construct has to do with prior lives.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Probably good to ask about mental illness. I have Dysthymia. My mother had the same and several of my children have this disease.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1thaddeus_k_nde.html