{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1thea_nde.html","mytitle":"Thea NDE3630","mylang":"de"}
          	        Thea NDE3630  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Thea NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1641 Thea NDE 3630  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The first time: I was a little over four years old at the time. I remember being in an ambulance which was taking me to a hospital in another city when, all of a sudden, I found myself way, way up high watching the ambulance on the road. I could see the landscape in minute detail and the colors were quite intense. I could see very far all the way around, but at the same time I was focusing on the winding road, I remember this very well. Many years after, I was on a bus, which followed the same route.  I decided to walk, I had this strange feeling that I should not have been in that place at all.

The second time: I was with my uncle, aunt and two cousins when I decided to go swimming in the river.

I wanted to show off that I was a good swimmer but the river undercurrent took me away to this drop off near the foot of a bridge. They told me later that a professional swimmer who happened to be there on vacation at his grandparents' got me out of the water but that I did not look scared at all. What I did not tell them was that I had panicked and struggled for a several minutes before I decided to completely give up. When I did give up, the water disappeared and all around me there was this gentle light that did not hurt my eyes, and I experienced a sense of total peace and calm. I remember thinking that if that was death it was fine with me. I would like to tell you that I had an unhappy childhood, with an alcoholic father and a mother who did not have much time for me, so being there in that place was a wonderful thing for me, indescribable.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  martie1976 si iulie1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Illness    Other 'scarlatina 40grade temperature inec'  This first time, the sickness, the second time I was drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Uncertain, I had no such feeling.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Uncertain, I had no such feeling.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     In the first experience it looked to me like everything was going on in a slow motion. In the second experience, there was neither space nor time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The first time the dimension and the detail of the view I was seeing and the clarity.  The second time, the strange light.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   In the second experience I felt this wonderful light all around me.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       The first time, uncertainty.  The second time, I felt secure.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The first time I could see myself from way up high while I was in the ambulance.  The second time I experienced the interior calm and peace and the light.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The first time, nothing.  In the second experience it was the feeling of complete calm.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I was too young to remember how I felt.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     It is difficult to explain but I am certain these experiences had been real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       In my second experience, I'm sorry I did not stay there.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It is so very difficult to explain what happened that I'm not so sure what kind of questions would be helpful.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1thea_nde.html