{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1terry_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Terry A NDE 3028","mylang":"de"}
          	        Terry A NDE 3028  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Terry A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1074  Terry A NDE  3028  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

This was my 4th child , and he like the rest were born at home. My husband was a doctor, and it always seemed to me that we were over prepared, with medical equipment etc. Except this time, the room looked sparse to me. Later I found out that he feared something would go wrong and some weird denial took over, and he talked himself out of trouble. Also as a note, he had started to have feelings for a female patient of his, which I was also I think in denial about.  After giving birth to my sweet Boy, I began to hemorrhage.  We also had a midwife helping, who turned to my husband and asked for the shot to stop the bleeding.  His face turned white, and the look passed between them was unforgettable panic. At that point, I passed out. 

I remember walking along a long corridor of light with a man that I couldn't see, and could only hear. I could see ahead of us a group of people standing there, just there shapes and sizes, no features. I also felt I knew these people. I must have asked my male friend, repeatedly, why am I so happy?  I just left my new baby, and my other three children, and my family, because it was Thanksgiving night and all of our family were there watching the birth and eating turkey.  I felt whole and complete Love and Peace. I was so curious why I would feel so happy, and not miss anything or anyone. Then my friend spoke to me and said 'you have known them all before and you will know them all again, there is no loss.' He then told me that I had a choice, I could go with him or I could go back. Then pictures began to flash within me I guess, and I believe I saw the future, because I knew that I would be raising the children by myself and they would need me with them.  Then I felt, oh yes I must go back. That seems to be when I came back into consciousness. Barely alive, but alive!

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    11/24/88

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Childbirth    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' .  I hemorrhaged after giving birth to a 10 lb baby boy


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was talking with my guide, or friend.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      When I was talking with my guide, or friend.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Every sense was alive

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I just remember every word like it was yesterday

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     like a tunnel

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I met a man whom I could not see, yet his voice was calm and loving, also I could see people up ahead, but could not see there details.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Everything seemed to be a soft glowing white light

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Every moment was beautiful

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      LOVE< and WHOLENESS

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw future events, I knew I would be raising my children by myself basically, and I was very important to them. Also, I do not fear death, my own or others

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     My guide and myself only walked so far down the tunnel, and we stopped.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Yes, but I don't know why I know this, I just do  Like, I was changed forever, strangely fearless, and I am certain that this life is not what's really who I am.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  very hard to put into words, definitely they are richer, yet I feel less clingy, or possessive

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It's hard to express the tremendous feelings of Love and wholeness

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Most of my life I have had other worldly experiences, I think for whatever reason, I am letting them come in stronger and more freely just recently

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I still think about how wonderfully whole and happy I felt, even though I was leaving people I loved

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No    When I was stronger physically I told my husband first, He had a hard time with it because he felt he nearly caused my death

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   I was brought up with a mother who was very metaphysical, I always gravitated towards the unusual.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     the experience is definitely altering the way I view life, it seems more important and less important at the same time, the gift that keeps on giving

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Dreaming has become my favorite pastime, or in deep meditation, I feel closest to that experience

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I think this altered my sons life too, being so connected at birth, like he tapped into the altered space as well, also I think he's always been afraid I would leave him

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1terry_a_nde.html