{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1terry_b_nde_7066.html","mytitle":"Terry B NDE 7066","mylang":"de"}
          	        Terry B NDE 7066  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Terry B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3559 Terry B NDE 7066  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was rafting with friends when we came upon a logjam.  The raft pushed up against the logs.  As my friends scrambled up the log pile, the raft flipped backwards and spilling me into the water.  Trying to pull myself up, I clung to the up side of the logs.  I couldn't do it and was forced to let go. I was sucked under the logjam where I became stuck amongst the logs under water.  I could hear my friends screaming my name but couldn't move.  I repeatedly tried to pull myself up against the current and through the logs.  Realizing there was nothing I could do, I was thinking of my family and how sad they would be, particularly my little brother. 

Suddenly, I was floating vertically around a magnificent cone-shaped light.  I was drawn towards it and I could see myself moving closer to it.  The voice of my grandmother, who had passed over five years earlier, told me to stay out of the light. She was a Catholic, had never told a fib in her life, and I knew she would want me to be safe.  I saw her standing on the shore, dressed as she always was.  She had on a dress, necklace, and earrings.  She was holding the hand of a little boy who was dressed for winter in a coat and cap.  I kept wondering who he was.  I thought that he was too little to be my brother Andy.  Again my grandmother said, ‘Stay out of the light.’  With that, I paddled backwards away from the light.  The next thing I knew, about 50-60 yards down river, my friends are shaking me because I ended up across the creek, lying on the shore.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 22, 1987
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Drowning  Other: trapped under log jam.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While under the logjam. I felt more aware of things around me; it was as if I was watching.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed as though time stood still.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No comparison, as if I had 360 degree vision during the experience.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I cannot recall a difference.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     As the light was cone-shaped, I do not recall a tunnel.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandmother and a small boy. I moved back to my hometown in 1988.  In 1989, while looking through pictures that my mother had from my grandmother's house, I saw the small boy.  He was one of her little brothers who died when he was age 4 or 5.  I started to cry.  It was the boy in my experience!

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Indescribable! Beyond magnificent

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very overwhelmed

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Only because my grandmother told me to stay out of the light.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     That there is more after this life.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I thought that this is what happens when you die and we move on: it is all good.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     thatmy dead grandmother was talking to me

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The perception of the light, the adrenalin-type heart racing rush, I get it even now, just thinking about it.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I am constantly amazed at how accurate this memory is,more vivid than the births of my children and each day I question why i didn't die?

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A couple weeks later: reactions varied from acceptable to bizarre.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard about it but didn't think it was possible.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Hearing my friends calling my name one second and then my grandmother the next.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As if it happened yesterday, now reading of other people over the years, listening to others and how emotional I get just thinking about it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1terry_b_nde_7066.html