{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1terry_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Terry E NDE 1012","mylang":"de"}
          	        Terry E NDE 1012  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Terry E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						454  Terry E NDE  1012  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had had a difficult birth of our first daughter on September 23, 1970. I was only nineteen, small boned, and the baby was over eight pounds in weight. After many hours of labor, the doctor finally performed a c'sarean section to deliver her. I was told later that I had hemorrhaged on the operating table and the doctors were afraid they had 'almost lost me'. But that was not when I had my NDE. That happened ten days later.


I was at home with my family (mom, sister and dad) because my husband was in the Air Force and deployed to training several states away. I had my first anaphylactic reaction; the doctors surmised it was probably a delayed reaction to the drugs received in the birth. My sister and mom drove me to the hospital (no 911 in those days) and I was declared clinically dead upon arrival. I remember being wheeled into the emergency room and being up in the corner of the room looking down at myself on the table. My body was looking upward and my eyes were open, but unseeing. I had seen enough TV to know that I was 'dead'. I also remember seeing my mom and sister on the other side of the emergency room door trying to look in through the little window in the door. (I told them that I had seen them and could describe where they were, how they looked and what they had said. They didn't believe me - my sister said, 'But you were dead. We saw you!' So after their reaction I didn't tell anyone else for many years.)


Even though this happened almost thirty-four years ago, I can still remember it vividly. I did not experience a tunnel, but rather was enveloped in a beautiful light of love and knew I was being held on the lap of Jesus like a child. It is a feeling of unconditional love, the closest I can possibly come is the overwhelming love I felt for my tiny daughter when I held her - but even that is not the same. I did not have a life review, but rather Jesus and I had an astounding conversation where he patiently answered all my questions. One I distinctly remember: I had recently completed a grueling course in calculus and had gotten all the final exam answers correct except one - I wanted to know the answer to that question. Jesus laughed and then gave me the answer, not in words but in a 'knowing' that encompassed not just the element of the question, but a complete understanding of all relational aspects of the question. HE has a wonderful sense of humor and I distinctly got the feeling that HE enjoys us humans as a father enjoys watching the minor scrapes children get themselves into.


I was allowed to have full knowledge and understanding. I remember that the awareness hit me with complete clarity and I thought, 'Of course, it's so obvious. Why are we all missing it?' Although not allowed to keep all the knowledge shown to me, there are two items I was allowed to keep:


1) In response to my question regarding religions of the world and which is the 'true' religion, HE answered 'Men come to me on many paths,' and I had the complete understanding of the response, which is broader than the words can convey. The point is not religion, but faith.


2) In response to my question about why we are here, HE answered 'To love one another.' Again, the understanding and meaning of HIS answer is so much more than the words. We are each part of HIM and by loving one another (and ourselves), we are in fact loving HIM.


After what seemed like hours, but was only about seven minutes according to hospital records, HE asked me if I would like to return. I felt that HE already knew the answer, but was asking out of politeness. I told HIM that I wanted to stay here and raise my daughter. HE said, 'As you wish,' and at that instant, I was back in my body. I felt the needles in my body and the pain and heard the doctor say, 'I think we have her back.'


I have since had a second daughter and our fourth grandchild is due this September. I know that my purpose here is to be a mother/grandmother and that that role is held in high esteem by GOD. I take that responsibility very seriously - and I laugh a lot!

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    Oct 3, 1970

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   ChildbirthAllergic reaction    Clinical death Anaphylactic reaction after childbirth.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was clinically dead physically. Spiritually I was more conscious than I have ever experienced before or since.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Altered? It was more that there was no space or time.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Yes, OUR LORD

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Not seen, enveloped by.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Catholic

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Our words are inadequate.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Have been given dreams, always about pregnancies, and the babies were shown to me. They have all been proven true.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Close family and children when they reached adulthood. Husband did not believe me until years later. Both my daughters believed me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1terry_e_nde.html