{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1terry_m_nde_4581.html","mytitle":"Terry M NDE 4581","mylang":"de"}
          	        Terry M NDE 4581  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Terry M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2308 Terry M NDE 4581  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					One month and approximately one week following a partial resection of a macro adenoma I found myself lying on the floor of my home so sick and weak I could not walk. As a slipped into what I believed was some sort of stupor related to the physical distress I was experiencing my wife finally convinced me to allow myself to be transported to the nearest Emergency Room. Still believing I had food poisoning I agreed to the transport but without a siren. I vaguely remember telling the emergency medical technician attendant that I could not breathe and I remember her reporting that my blood pressure was dropping rapidly.

I have a bit of a memory about me being rushed through double doors and after that - nothing. 

The next thing I recall is a sensation of floating in a void in a grey like substance.  I experienced incredible peace and the absolute absence of any kind of fear. This experience would be interrupted by Nurse Amy (she was one of the emergency room nurses) or Dr. Lee, (emergency room MD) calling my name and I would achieve a bit of consciousness. I would return to this 'void'. I became mildly aggravated with the medical types for calling me back. I had no sense of time.  At one point, I became aware of voices and I heard a nurse say, 'She (meaning my wife) doesn't have a clue.' 

I then returned to the void and would become aware of 'now' as my brother-in-laws, my father and mother-in law and eventually my wife were coming in for some reason I couldn't understand. As this continued I felt no discomfort, only peace and Love. I became aware of the 'now' and noticed that my Primary Care Physician was holding my hand, once when a cardiologist inserted pic lines in my chest. Following that, I have no memory except the nurse and MD continually calling my name. I suddenly became aware of 'People, beings' if you like who were talking with me and asking me to 'tell people things'. I was told I was going to receive money, I did. The messages given for delivery were clear and one was even in broken German. I have a rudimentary knowledge of German. I suddenly realized the rightness of reincarnation and was informed I don't 'have to come back', unless I want to do so.

I continued in the formerly described state by choice listening and I suddenly became aware of a sense of being drawn back to 'now'. My last words I said in the 'void' were, 'I'm not ready to have these eternal conversations just now,' and I awoke to 'now'.

Once everyone realized I was back in my physical skin, people began to attend to me. When I commented on this being the longest forty-five minutes or an hour that I had ever spent, I was informed I had been the emergency room for somewhere between twelve to fourteen hours while the staff worked on me. Following being transferred to the intensive care unit, I was questioned by curious nurses about my experiences but didn't really want to share them so soon. The second night in the intensive care unit, I experienced an odd phenomenon.

It was late afternoon, I had prayed for acceptance of my condition and realized that death might still be imminent for me and asked God as I understand Him to forgive me of my short comings and to care for my family when without warning my life began to unfold in my head and it seemed right before my eyes. I could not stop the process and my life events, good, bad and in between flew by my eyes at increasing speed. I learned that my ego choices weren't considered evil, bad, or anything they just weren't right for my life and me. I was given an understanding of true goodness as well as true evil, I was shown how the smallest act may create an amazing moment or create grave consequences. As this experience ended, I was aware of the most incredible silence, I began to believe I was going to die! I was aware of a being coming in the direction of my room and I realized that there is mostly certainly an Angel of Death and I thought he was coming for me; I was ready and accepted my end. It was not my time. The lady in the room next to me died. The understanding that came with this experience made me realize that death is a friend and constant companion not to be feared. The plain message is 'don't worry about a long life but a full one.' I have since learned that this Angel is named Azr'l.

Many things began to change following this experience. For one I began to deliver the 'messages'. I have discovered that I have certain abilities in the healing arts, an ability to scan people and at least find what might be creating dis-ease within them. If necessary, I strongly urge them to seek medical attention. I have become a medium. I still can interact with those beings that I met six years ago and I will interact with them and provide messages to those seeking information. In my profession, God has given me stronger intuitive abilities and therapy session outcomes appear to be providing what clients are looking for when they come to see me. Many things that I thought were 'so important' hold little or no meaning now. Things I used to avoid I am now acquainting myself with them. I pray more, I believe I am less afraid of mankind and have in some ways developed a childlike naïveté which replaced my callousness and skepticism. My marriage has improved as well. I suppose if someone reads this and would like to ask questions or comment on what I have written; it would be okay with me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  8/2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Other 'I was not ''coded'' but my family all came to say ''good bye'''  My cellular structure, veins and major organs were breaking down.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Post coming back to the 'now'.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Post coming back to the 'now'.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Where I was there did seem to be any time. It was just 'is'.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Every color more intense, light more intense.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Linguistic nuance was very noticeable.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They seemed to be people. They wanted me to talk to people for them.

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, Happiness, Sadness when I returned.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     See the above writing. I am more social, more tolerant, more accepting and more understanding of others.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Just in my life.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     A deeper sense of believing in God.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Spiritualist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     A deeper sense of believing in God.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The message for me is 'it ain't that serious!'

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I don't waste my time with people who choose to be sick, unaware, or irrationally afraid.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   For several months following the experience, I had difficulty talking about it at all.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     And pertaining to the ones I had prior to this experience I was informed to 'get busy' and make use of them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The request for passing messages and the feeling of everything is alright remains with me six years later.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my wife and a nurse immediately following the event, with others, about seven months.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My first 'NDE' occurred when I was approximately ten years of age. I nearly succumbed to pneumonia. When I returned to school, I was able to read and comprehend five to six levels above my grade level. I became good with languages.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     First, things that were told to me happened. The messages I began to give to people, some I knew, others not so well (it took more courage for them) were verified by those people. I began to attract people.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As stated in above, the energy that I have been given, the understanding and acceptance remain with me. I am more peaceful.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It is difficult to find people to talk with about this.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1terry_m_nde_4581.html