{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1terry_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Terry M NDE 2551","mylang":"de"}
          	        Terry M NDE 2551  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Terry M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						820  Terry M NDE  2551  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

I and a friend had arrived within a couple of blocks to my home, when we had decided to explore what had then been a rough-framed home construction. The foundation was laid complete with basement and plywood flooring across what would become the first-level. A rectangular opening to the basement was the only visible void in this surface. We crossed the floor to further examine this opening. There was no staircase in place to reach the basement.

As we bent over to look, I had some vertigo and fell head-first to a concrete floor below. According to my friend, I remained still for about ten minutes, or so. It was during this time, that an impression of light (I do not know how else to clarify it) came to create a complete sense of certainty and knowing. I still yearn for it today that I come to greater understanding of its secret. For I know it contains all I seek.

Anyway, after my friend had descended by a stick-ladder that had been in place of a stair, and brought me to the surface, we went directly to my home to convey the incident to an anxious mother. I was reported to have made nonsensical remarks to questions asked of me. (Including, of my own identity.) I spent three nights, and days, in a hospital for observation, subsequently released whole and in good working order. Although, my skull was fractured, as one can imagine, the skin was unbroken, and I had no recollection of pain. I remember the doctor declaring he did not know how I had survived the trauma.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Winter of 1963  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes       Direct head injury    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I had fractured my skull, and at the time, lay unconscious.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It cannot be compared to ordinary consciousness, but only in its contrast does one find an idea of its nature. You are not confined to a localized consciousness we experience as sentient, physical beings. Instead, I was encompassed in a gravity of understanding that superseded the need for anything else. I cannot make a proclamation with any more weight than to state that this we accept as existence in a realm of time and space, is of no consequence to my, or anybody's permanence. This, unquestionably, is the effect of the light I found myself in, and as myself.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was of six years in age, so I am unable to precisely recall the moment in question. I do, however, retain no fear of being ex-vivo, as the 'physical' is clearly unnecessary to my existence. This was the only conclusive knowledge gained while prostrate on the floor of the basement.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Space and time were of no value. This is the impression left to me.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     As I reflect upon it, colors were much brighter, and objects did not hold solid value as they would ordinarily. But, it did not matter. My mother said that I had responded incorrectly when asked what color I was seeing, etc. I can only attribute this to a lingering disorientation from this physical realm where such things are universally observed, as against the state of light in which these observations are fluid, but also of much, much less consequence.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was all about me, but I was not distinct from it.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The realm of light is another dimension distinct from this, but not separated. Only complete.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       There is no emotion, but unqualified acceptance and yearning. It is very pleasant, indeed, not to have place and time to depend on for existence. I was very happy, and it had no end.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     Religion is an artifact of experience in this realm. It is of no consequence to complete existence. This, I have been explaining to another for as long as I could complete a sentence.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I do not practice religion.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     Religion is an artifact of experience in this realm. It is of no consequence to complete existence. This, I have been explaining to another for as long as I could complete a sentence.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   No fear, always complete, always.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The experience elicited an impression composed, abstractly, of a confluence that included understanding, feeling and thought not amenable to verbal expression. To this day, if I draw myself to the impression, I am able to re-capture an impression still brilliant, yet unrecognizable in the course of ordinary living.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     There are moments I know the outcome of events, but it is not a big deal. If I have this experience, we all do.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The reality of light.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     At the time, it did not mean anything except lost time in the apple orchard playing, or riding my bicycle lickity-split on a groomed, paved street.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is the only experience I would never question as real.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Once, I had become so agitated with events, that I rose above myself to witness my own laments and tears. I was without emotion, and merely observing my actions.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       If each of us were to have this experience but once, I should think the utility of religion would cease to be replaced with a rather more complete understanding and a cordiality exercised toward another unknown to beings that consider themselves individual. In the light is only where I ever felt complete and not separated.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1terry_m_nde.html