{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1teresita_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Teresita Possible NDE 6310","mylang":"de"}
          	        Teresita Possible NDE 6310  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Teresita Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3074 Teresita Possible NDE 6310  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I found myself in a place where several things claimed my attention: the place was like a luminous city, but the luminosity was not sunshine. Everything could be seen with great clarity and the temperature was perfect.  I felt neither warm nor cold. All the people were wearing white tunics and what struck me was: (this is what I said to myself) ‘LOOK OVER THERE IN THE DISTANCE AT THAT GROUP OF PEOPLE!!  THEY ARE CONVERSING WITH SUCH EXTRAORDINARY PEACE AND LOVE!!’ I could tell that they were not criticizing each other or gossiping about others in a mean-spirited way, nor were they angry or upset at all, about anything.  It was as if they really loved one another and, in general, were completely content, even joyful! Incidentally, I was also amazed that I could see them so well at a distance, in spite of not having my glasses!   (I have been near-sighted since childhood and have always had to wear glasses in order to see at all.)  

After observing the people for a bit, I moved towards them. I walked past some staircases that were flanked on either side by white marble columns. Everything was pure, glowing and radiant; white or light colored, in soothing tones, as bright as daylight, but more luminous.  There were no dark colors at all!  It was a wonderful, peaceful place, and I had a marvelous sense of well-being. 

Then I met a dark-haired boy who, like all the others, was wearing a white tunic.  As we looked at one another, it felt like we were saying, ‘Hello!’ but without words. All around this wonderful place, there were people strolling peacefully, mostly in couples or groups. I don't remember any flowers or buildings, but I do remember those staircases with the columns at their sides. I don't know what they were because I didn't really examine them as I passed. 

It had been just then that I spotted the boy and we exchanged greetings. Would I have liked to stay there? Yes, but my heart would not have let me consider it, because I have two children who need me, and I would never leave them. Thinking only of myself, yes, I would like to have stayed.  If that place really exists and if it is where we go after we die, I can assure you that we will all love one another, without rancor, jealousy, hatred or criticism. THERE WILL ONLY BE PEACE AND LOVE! 

I didn't see any tunnel, I just appeared in that place, I don't know when or why, nor do I remember clearly waking up and saying to myself, ‘What a dream I've had!! I just know that what I experienced was very real and felt precious to me. Ever since that experience, I have always been of the opinion that I was in what people call ‘Heaven.’  As I said, I would have loved to have stayed there except for my children needing me on Earth. I do hope that place is real and that I will be there again someday.  But for now, I live here on Earth from day to day, not really knowing for sure what that place was, why, or how long, I was there, but always remembering how precious and lovely it was.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  no la recuerdo

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Other: no se cuando ocurrio exactamente.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   For me it was very real and I was conscious of its reality.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout, I knew that it was real; in fact, it did not even occur to me that it might not be.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I am near-sighted, but while I was there, my vision was fine and I know I was not wearing any glasses.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Normal. I could not hear the people I saw conversing in the distance, but their distance from me would have precluded my hearing them on Earth, so that doesn't really give any information about my hearing.  I really didn't think about my hearing. It seemed to be normal, but actually, I didn't talk to anyone. When I met the boy, what I experienced was a mental sort of communication. We did not use spoken language, just a look, or something like that, which felt the same as saying, ‘Hello.’

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light which lit the place was radiant and clear, but I did not see any light at the end of any tunnel.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I have always thought that it was heaven because of the happiness there and the people there seemed so well, with so much peace and love.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt joy, peace, love, happiness, and well-being.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I felt myself very much at ease there. I had only just arrived, I knew nobody, but I knew that I was fine. I moved around and saw such happiness, people so happy and loving, without malice, nothing bad.  I would willingly have stayed there. Nobody told me that I had to return, and yet I didn't stay.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Creo que existe algo,un dios fisico,o algo que haya creado todo el universo,algo tiene que haber.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     At that time I believed the same as I do now, that something exists, God, or something. When I go back there, I imagine that everything will be revealed.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   despues de la experiencia sigo pensando lo mismo.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     yo en esos momentos creia lo mismo que creo ahora,que existe algo,Dios o algo que me imagino que habra una explicacion de todo.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Not following the experience but previously I had decided that there had to be life existing after death.  I think the experience happened for a reason. I don't know if that beautiful place really exists or not, but I lived it, I lived there for a time, (I don't know how many minutes/hours?). I just don't know. I know that this life is the one I am living from day to day, and sometimes I think that all this might be a life of dreams and, when you die, you live the true life.  Nobody has come back after death to tell us there is another place besides this one. I would be delighted if it should exist: that place of my experience, and that we will all live there together in love and peace. It was incredible, something we do not see here on Earth. Even when speaking with a person you love a lot, you do not transmit the loving energy that I experienced there.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No     habia mucho amor pero nadie me explico nada solo lo veia y lo sentia.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No No changes in my life.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   No matter what I say as I describe the peace, love and luminosity, I don't feel that I'm conveying what it was really like.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   como no recuerdo cuando fue la experiencia pues no se decir,pero desde luego creo que la recordare siempre.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It surprises me that I saw people and was with them there and yet I was not afraid, nor did I have any bad feelings at all. In spite of not knowing anybody when I arrived, everything was so happy, I was fine. There was much love there but nobody explained anything. I just saw it and felt it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I always describe the experience as I remember it, but without being able to include when or why it happened. Whenever I do tell people about it, it makes my hair stand on end.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I love this kind of subject, but it has only been during the last few months since I've had the internet that I have been able to do a lot of research on it.  I've been gaining more, and more exact, knowledge of this sort of paranormal phenomenon. It has brought back memories of dreams I used to have as a child. I would dream about two ladies, each dressed in a long black dress, wearing dark glasses, their greying hair swept up in a bun, in the style of the olden days. To be more precise, they were like a character in the story Heidi. I would dream that I was with them both in a dark place, perhaps a room without much light. Maybe were looking after me. The surprising thing is that about 15 or 16 years ago I was working at the fruit-counter in a supermarket, and twin ladies, exactly like those of my dream, turned up there. I just looked at them in surprise as they gave me their order. They were looking at me, smiling, very quiet, well educated and slim: they were the very same twins as had been in my childhood dreams, with the same black clothing and the same hair and glasses. I had not met them before (outside of my dreams) and I didn't say anything to them. I wish I could see them again so I could question them.  It was very strange, they were perfect, neither older nor younger than they had appeared in my dreams. I don't know how to explain this, I often ask myself about it. They didn't alarm me because they seemed so good, both of them smiling.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I always remember it with great pleasure.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Well, as real as this life is, anyway!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I don't remember when the experience happened, I cannot say for sure.  But I believe I will remember it always, whereas the other things in life, not so much.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1teresita_possible_nde.html