{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 2764 7258 1942","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v2_28_march_1884.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V2 March 28 1884","mylang":"de"}
March 28, 1884.]· A Theorll oj Apparition8. 109
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
Marek 28, 1884.
The seventh General Meeting of the Society was held at the Garden
Mansion, Queen Anne's Mansions, S.W., on March 28,1884.
PROFESSOR HENRY SIDGWICK, PRESIDENT, IN THE CHAIR.
I.
THIRD REPORT OF THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
Committee:-W. F. BARRETl', F.R.S.E.: CHAS. C. MASSEY; REV. W.
STAINTON MOSES, M.A.; F. PODMORE, M.A.; and EDMUND GURNEY,*
M.A., and F. W. H. MYERS,- M.A., Hoo. Sees.
A THEORY OF APPARITIONS.
PART I.
This is a question whioh, after five thousand years, ia IItill undecided; •
question, whether iJl theology or philosophy, one of the most important that can
oome before the human understanding.-DR. JOHNSON.
By a curious oombination of circumstances the question of which Dr.
Johnson speaks-namely, what Apparitions really are-which has in a.
kind of fashion smouldered on since the days of the cave-men, or at
least of Job and Homer, is now entering on 'an acute phase. It is
coming at ~he same time to seem more important, and to seem more
sQluble. In this respect it resembles many other time-honoured
questions, which men have been for many generations content to debate
backwards and forwards without result, partly from a pre-scientific
indifference to accurate tests, and partly from despair as to the
possibility of applying them. The attitude of our generation towards
such questions is very different. There is an inclination now to get to
the bottom of subjects, or at any rate definitely to recognise them as
bottomless. If any subject has actuality enough to retain any place at
all in general conversation, it is felt that somebody or other may be
expected to make it his business to analyse and expound it·. The
*THE COUNCIL HOLDS ITSELF GENERALLY RESPONsmLE FOR THIiI REPORTS OF ITS CoJUlITTlI:ES.
AT THE IlEAD OF EACH REPORT THE NAMES OF THOSIiI MBlilBERS OF COMlIIITTEE WHO ARlII
SPECIALLY BESPONsmLlil FOR ITS COKPOSlTION ABIl lIIARKED WITH ASTERISKS.
K
Digitized by Coogle
lW A Theol'!! of Apparitioll8. [March 28,
change fairly indicates the extent to which the modem scientific spirit
has permeated the world of intelligence. Working unseen among
multitudes who belong to no learned bodies and have no scientific
pretensions, it helps to bear along on its imperceptible current the craft
of the discoverer, which used to have to be ever wrestling with the
opposing tides of ignorance and bigotry. The set of this current
gradually broadens. At first it speeds the barks only of the older and
more established sciences; but little by little the explorer finds himself
supported into more devious channels, through which hitherto the
impetus of popular curiosity had never swept. Within the last genera-
tion, for instance, anthropology, from being rejected year after year by
the British Association as a. vain cobweb spun from travellers' tales, has
taken its place as one of the most constant and popular element~ in
their proceedings. And later still, the ingenious speculations of Mr. F.
Galton in the delicate domain of "eugenics," and in the idiosyncrasies of
mental imagery-received at first with something as near derision as
the eminence of their author permitted-are now recognised as a.
necessary development of the method into which Darwin has cast the
thought of the age.
It is natural that the tone and the claims of science should
change with this, gradual popularisation of the scientific instinct.
She can now demand, without fear, to subject, as it were, to her
police regulations the Broad Sanctuary which was once governed by
tradition and sentiment alone. Everything which claims to be known
is expected to show its credentials; and views about the seen and
unseen worlds are alike conceived as amenable to objective tests. This
process has been applied, as we all know, to every element in ancient
creeds and institutions. It would be absurd to say that any kind of
general agreement has been in this way attained. But if we had to
submit two resolutions, as a kind of compromise, to be voted on by tho
readers of the innumerable tractates, "symposiums," &c., which have
dealt with these high matters, we should select the following as prudent
generalities, likely to gain more assent and provoke less strenuous
-opposition than any others which we could think 'Of :-
1. The thesis that the universe is governed by unchanging laws, as
-opposed to arbitrary interferences, has gained in probability.
2. The crudely materialistic account of things, which refuses to
'a.llow us even to seek the key of any of the phenomena of life and mind
-outside the admitted scope of physiological and psychological laws,
has failed to commend itself as a. complete or ultimate solution of the
problems without and within us.
Now if we wish to see what real guidance lies in these two some-
'What vague resolutions, taken together, our practical corollary, as it
'Would seem, must be something of this kind :-that while accepting as
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] A Theory of Apparition8. III
perfectly valid every law which recognised science can establish, we
may fairly suppose that further laws, of a different kind it may be, but
perhaps none the less susceptible of rigorous investigation, are actua.lly
in operation in the domain of human life; and certainly no reason
exists for contentedly ignoring any hint of such laws which experience
may offer.
We select, then, a test-instance. We propose to deal with a class
of phenomena at once ancient, widespread, and notorious-the ,standing
jest and the standing mystery of age after age. Apparitions, of
course, in one form or another, are an element in nearly every religion
known among men; and the discussion of their reality has been a
perpetual feature in religious controversy. But the apparitions which
llave been most associated with religious ideas have been those of the
dead; and we sha.ll do our best to avoid controversial ground, and also
keep our subject within manageable limits, by altogether excluding this
class. Let us take only the a.lleged apparitions of living persons, the
commonest of which are death-wraiths, or apparitions of persons near
the moment of death. How does opinion stand at present with regard
to death-wraiths 1
We think we may say that the subject holds a position absolutely
unique. The main question, it must be remembered, is simply as to
the reality of certain contemporary events. Differences of taste, of
temperament, of skill in historical interpretation, of religious or philo-
sophical proclivities, have nothing to do with it. Yet on this bare
question as to whether or not a particular sort of phenomenon, alleged
to be observed a good many times every year, is a reality 01'
a figment, intelligent opinion is found to be utterly, it might almost seem
hopelessly, divided. In what other department of real and pretended
knowledge can we find a para.llel to such facts as the following 1
Within the space of half a year two papers appear in two of the leading
monthly Reviews. In the first, a rising physician, acting as spokesman
to a party of vigorous and enthusiastic scientific workers, dismisses the
phenomenon in question as a baseless absurdity. In the second, one of
the ablest bishops on the bench, whose scientific aptitudes were at any
rate sufficient to obtain for him the highest mathematical honours at
Cambridge, represents the same phenomena. as attested in a way
which makes doubt of them almost impossible to a fair mind. This
instance is a typical one; and without hazarding a guess as to the
relative strength of the two parties, we feel assured that, if every
casual assembly of educated Englishmen could be polled, each view
would almost invariably claim a certain number of adherents. One
may not infrequently find the very antipodes of opinion located at
the two ends of a friendly dinner-table, and two groups, till then
harmonious, each pursuing the theme under a fire of contemptuous
K 2
Digitized by Coogle
112 .A Theory of ~p'paritionlJ. [Maroh 28•
glances from the other. In a professedly scientific age, this division
of belief on a point of contemporary testimony is surely an anomaly
amounting almost to a scandal; and the more so that the alleged
events, though not to be commanded at will, are not, like the sea.-
serpent, remote and inaccessible; nor, like him, are they described
by any particular class of the community professionally addicted to
yarns or to marvels. They occur, if they occur at all, in our very
midst; and are testified to by no single class, but by individuals drawn
from every class, and by representatives of every profession and pursuit.
A question of fact which is thus in suspense clearly cannot long
escape the widening current that sets towards minute and exhaustive
inquiry. For though there has been hut little attempt at accurate
treatment, it certainly 'cannot be said that the general interest in the
subject has in any way flagged. With all their difference of view, the
two parties at any rate agree intheir inability to leaveApparitions alone.
There is, no doubt, a growing distaste for the fictitious tales of "the
supernatural" which have had in their day a considerable vogue; and it
is still safe and easy to treat any thing which can possibly be called" a.
ghost-story" as on a par with such figments as these. But, for all that,
such records as bear marks of genuineness are, as a rule, received with
a much more thorough-going curiosity, and refuted (it may be) with a
much more thorough-going zeal, than seems to have been the case in
times generally accounted far more credulous and far more intolerant.
If, therefore, little serious hope has been felt of ascertaining the truth
by subjecting the alleged phenomena. to a really scientific analysis, it
must be owing to an indistinct idea that the necessary evidence exists
in fragments too sporadic and uncertain to form the basis of any accurate
inductions.
It is against this idea that our first stand is made. We deem it
premature to despair of the success of an enterprise which has never
once been fairly attempted. We spoke just now of the invigorating
effect of the infusion of the, scientific spirit into popular thought: we
must now even more strongly insist on another aspect of the democratic
tendency of modern science. The public are for the first time being
made participator8 in scientific work: for the first time they appear as
the sources of the evidence, as the actual material (so to speak) of the
experiments, which the novel nature of recent inquiries demands.
Here, again, we have the example of Mr. Galton to point to.* The
* Mr. Galton has felt himself at liberty to offer pecuniary rewards for
information of the sort that he desires. We have held ourselves absolutely
precluded from taking this oourse. We do Dot, indeed, feel that there is any
fear of intentional fictions being palmed off on ns ; as our system of cross·
examination (whioh our informants may sometimes, we fear, have thought
pedantio) has by this time set us quite at rest on that point. But it is plainly
necessary that our witnesses should not be induced, by any means that ca::L be
avoided, to cast their eTidence in a striking or attractive form.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] A Theory of Apparitions. 113
fact is, as he has pointed out, that the very spread of the scientific
spirit has immensely increased the number of men and women who are
able to give straightforward and accurate answers to questions bearing
on their personal experience. And as science gradually extends her
empire over the subtler problems of life, the importance of this new
departure may be expected to be more and more felt. Many a problem
which a Reid or a Hamilton settled down to in a mood of conscientious
self-exa.mina.tion, and in the philosophic cave of his study, may hereafter
be solved in the market-place, by the Method of Averages and by
tables of statistics.
But to consider more precisely the present state of the argument as
regards the genuineness of Apparitions.
For them there is a considerable mass of evidence (which, as we say,
has never been carefully collected or measured), and a good deal of
popular belief-mainly held, however, by people who believe also that
they are more or less miraculous, more or less special interferences with
the ordinary laws of events.
.A.gainat them there is a large mass both of scientific and of
unscientific opinion. The unscientific opposition need not detain us
long. It embodies itself in such assertions as that no one ever heard
a ghost-sto.-y first-hand; or that seers of apparitions almost always end
by believing in the Claimant, the Israelitish origin of the English, and
the flatness of the earth; or that no one who was not of a nervous or
hysterical temperament was ever troubled with such experiences; and
it rests probably on tacit reasonings of this kind, "I am a strong-
minded and superior person, and I never saw anything of the kind; " or
on a comfortable and diffused sense of the progress of the age, and a
piquant recollection of Sir Matthew Hale's belief in witches. Supple-
mentary arguments can readily be improvised to suit the occasion. If
a believer in apparitions is a Catholic, it is said that of course he is one
who will swallow anything: if he is a Freethinker, it is said that he is
setting up grotesque images to replace his lost gods. These people give
us no anxiety. Their assertions are mere phrases; and one phrase IS as
good as another. We entertain no doubt whatever that those who are
now asserting that the world has become too instructed for this sort of
thing, and that nobody ever heard a ghost-story fust-hand, will-after
the evidence has been brought under their notice-be equally loud in
asserting that of course they always knew that any amount of people
could be found to vouch for personal experiences of this sort, and that
they are only too painfully aware what a thin crust of science overlies
the chaos of primitive superstitions.
But the 8cientific opposition has, of course, a more logical basis. It
supports itself on two arguments; one of which is an ereplanation of
some at least of the alleged phenomena; ~he other presumption against
Digitized by Coogle
114 A Theory oj Apparitions. [March 28,
the antecedent possibility of the phenomena, except so fa.r as that
explanation will cover them.
(1) The explanation is that apparitions a.re merely cases of morbid
hallucination; and that the time-coincidences involved (as when thefigure
of a friend is seen at the precise moment ofhis death) are due to chance
alone.
(2) The presumption is that however hard it may be to explain
away the coincidence as due to chance, nevertheless that is the only line
to take; and we must not suppose that the apparition has really any-
thing to do with the dying person, since this would involve an
interference with the order of Nature.
Now the explanation here suggested really resolves itself into a.
pure question of facts and figures. Noone doubts that there are
numerous hallucinations which do not correspond with any objective
fact whatever outside the organism of the percipient-which merely
reflect and externalise some morbid condition of his brain. And few
would care to deny that S0m.6 such hallucinations orapparitions mayhave
been observed in close coincidence with deaths, &c., and ma.y thus have
given rise to the belief in wraiths. It is obvious that until the evidence
as to wraiths has been collected, sifted, tested in every ;ay with
thorough care, and until also some conclusion is arrived at as to the
frequency of mere morbid hallucinations, it is impossible to say on
grounds of fact whether the coincidences of death and wraith are
due to chance or not. If it be at once asserted that ojcourse all death-
wraiths are mere chance-coincidences, this positive and wholesale
assertion must be based on the presumption which we sha.ll discuss
presently, not on the ground of recorded fact which we are discuss-
ing now.
Here, then, we have come clearly in view of the two lines along
which facts must be collected for the purpose of our introduction. We
must collect information not only of death-wraiths, but a.1so of morbid
hallucinations-of purely subjective visions-having no claim to be
anything else. Up to this time no one has adopted the method of
systematic collection of facts along both these lines of inquiry, which
alone can btl expected to bring the controversy to a final close. It is
not too much to affirm that the student of the subject may read every
word that has ever been published on both sides of the argument,
without encountering a sign-we do not say of the necessary statistics,
but of even an idea that statistics can be wanted. Confident assertion
is a far handier weapon. Thus, to quote a typical instance from a
leading daily paper, "The number ofwell-attested coincidences" between
the apparition of a person and his death "does not exceed, as Mr. Lang
hal! suggested, the limits that the laws of chance allow." The idea that
a point of this kind can be settled off-hand by anybody's suggestion-an
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] .A. Tlteorl/ of .ApparitionS. 113
idea which Mr. Lang himself would be the first torepudiate-clearly
belongs to the pre-scientific era. It is much as if some one should take
a stroll through Hyde Park, observe the children he met, and then
" suggest" the proportion of males to females in the population of
England. Again, on the other side of the controversy, it is no doubt a
more grateful task to relate or to print an interesting narrative than to
ascertain, for instance, from twenty of one's acq\laintance the dull fact
that they have never experienced a distinct visual hallucination. Just
in the same way a scientific lecturer will win more regard at the
moment by a sensational experiment with pretty colours and loud
explosions than by laborious quantitative work in his laboratory. But
we must persistently impress on the friends of "psychical research" that
the laborious quantitative work has to be done; and it is some satisfac-
tion to think that the facts themselves may stand as material for others
to deal with, even if the conclusions that we ourselves draw from them
are incorrect.
But while we much prefer facts to the most intelligent" suggestions,"
we must point out that we have no wish wholly to discard the
common-sense view of intelligent men, merely because it is not based on
careful numerical estimates. On the contrary, we ourselves are in a.
position to appeal to that view with confidence, in respect of one, at any
rate,- of the two lines of inquiry which we have indicated.. The question
whether or not a. very large proportion of the population ha.ve had experi-
ence ofmorbid or purely subjective hallucinations is one, we submit,where
we might fairly ha.ve taken our stand on the ordinary observation of
educated persons, and have thrown on our opponents the onus of proving
it wrong. On this point a broad common-sense view does exist; and
according to it, "spectral illusions "-distinct hallucinations of the sense
of vision--are very far from the everyday occurrences which they would
have to be if we are to suppose that, whenever they coincide in time
with the death of the person seen, they do so by a.ccident. Nay, if we
take even one of our critics, and bring him fairly face to face with the
question, " If '!Iou all at once saw in yourroom a brother whom you had
believed to be.a hundred miles away; if he disappeared without the
door opening; and if an hour la.ter you received a telegram announcing
his sudden death-how should you explain the occurrence 7" he does not
as a rule reply, " His day and hour for dying happened also to be m'!l
day and hour for a. spectral illusion, which is natural enough, consider-
ing how common the latter experience is;" he usually says, "The
supposition is absurd; there are no really authentic cases of that sort."
Under the immediate pressure of the supposed fa.cts, he instinctively
feels that the argument of chance-coincidence would not seem effective.
But to return to our census-it would perhaps have been too much
to expect our opponents to aid us in a task which it was rather for
Digitized by Coogle
116 A Theo,.y 01 Apparitions. [March 28,
them to have undertaken. But we were scarcely prepared for the
reception which our proposal for a numerical estimate encountered. It
was introduced in a circular letter, every word of which might have
heen penned by a zealous sceptic, anxious above a.1l things to prove that,
in cases where a distinct apparition or vision of a distant person has
been simultaneous with the person's death, the coincidence has been an
accidental one. If apparitions are extremely common things, then-it
was pointed out-it might naturaJly happen, according to the law of
ubances, that one of them here and there would fa.1l on the same day or
night as the real event which it suggested. Not a sylla.ble was used
implying that the authors of the letter had themselves any opinion as to
whether apparitions to which no real event corresponds OII'e or are not
common things; it was simply argued that it is necessary to have some
idea lww common they are, before deciding whether apparitions to
which real events do correspond are or are not to be fairly accounted
for by chance. And since sensory ha.1lucinations, whatever their
frequency, are at any rate phenomena. as universa.1ly admitted as
measles or colour-blindness, it did not occur to us that the following
'luestion could possibly be misunderstood :-Have you ever, when in
good health and completely awake, had a vivid impression of seeing 01
being touched by a human being, or of hearing a voice or sound which
suggested a human presence, when no one was there 7 Yes or no 1
Clearly, the more yeses are received to this question- i.e. the
commoner the purely subjective ha.1lucinations prove to be-the stronger
is the argument for chamce as an adequate expla.na.tion of the instances
of coincidence; the more noes-the rarer the purely subjective
ba.1lucinations prove to be-the stronger the argument that the death
which coincides with the apparition is in some way the cause of the
apparition. We should have expected, if any injustice was to be done
us, that it would have taken the form of attributing to us an inordinate
desire for noes. To our amazement we found that we were supposed to
be aiming exclusively at YBsBs-and not only at yeses, but at yeses
expanded into orthodox" ghost-stories"-to be anxious in fact that
every one in and out of Bedlam who had ever imagined something that
was not there, or mistaken one object for another, should tell us his
experience, with a view that we might immediately interpret it as due
to the intervention of a bogey. A more singular instance of the power
of expectaru;y, of the power of gathering from words any meaning that
the critic comes predisposed to find there, can hardly be conceived. A
statistical question on a. perfectly well recognised point in the natural
history of the senses was treated, in scientific and unscientific quarters
alike, as a manifesto of faith in "supernatural " agencies; and we found
ourselves solemnly rebuked for ignoring the morbid and subjective
cba.ra.cter of many ba.1lucinations-that 'is to say, for ignoring the fact
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] A Theory of Appar£tiolls. 117
which we had set forth as the very basis of our appeal, and from which
its whole and sole point was derived.
So much for the statistical aspect of the controversy.* We have
next to consider the presumption against Apparitions as being
interferences with Nature, exceptions to ordinary law-abidingphenomena,
and so a priori impossible. Now let us try to fi~ the meaning of this
expression. Arago's dictum pronounces "impossible" to be a mean-
ingless word, outside the region of puro mathematics; but for present
purposes we are content to take it in a much looser sense, and to count
as impossible anything which can fairly be called too improbable to be
worth inquiring into. Let us try a definitiou then, and say "An
alleged phenomenon is impossible if it runs counter to a sufficient
previous mass of experience; or if (without definitely contradicting any
established generalisations) it postulates a force whose existence, did it
exist, must long ago have been inevitably observed." This perhaps
is as fair a working definition as can be got; it is at any rate
one that all may agree to. But definitions are inanimate finger-
posts, not living guides. And as soon as a really difficult case
meets us, it is seen that the whole question has still been left un-
avoidably open in the words sufficient and inevitably, whose meaning it
must be left in each case to common sense and the dicta of experts to
determine. And even if we suppose a decision come to, it will be
difficult to regard it as final, so long as common sense insists-and it
certainly will insist-that all experience shall be counted for what it is
worth. How long will our definition bind us to go on dismissing, as
"running counter to experience," what is widely and strongly testified to
as experienced ~ Facts which have ended by settling down quite
comfortably with other facts, have before now had the door of science
slammed in their face; and phenomena which are now the very
starting-points of research were once distorted or ignored as intractable
and intrusive. Plenty of good solid substances have in their day been
jeered at as bitterly as if they were the airiest of spectres. Pre-Adamite
fossils, which flew in the face of established chronology, were inter-
preted as marks elaborately imprinted in the rocks by some uncertain
Power, with obscure reference to man's ultimate belief or disbelief in
the book of Genesis. Aerolites were scouted as a kind of fetish in
excelsis-a transcendental bretyl-" the image which fell down from
Jupiter." "There are no stones in the sky," said Lavoisier, "therefore
none can fall upon the earth." Again, forces now used in a wholesale
• The collection of the statistics themselves must be the work of many
months; and we earnestly appeal for help in it. To obtain an adequate number
of answers, a very large number of oollectors is needed. Any person willing to
aid in the work shonld communicate with the Hon. Sec. of the S.P.R.,
14, Bean's Yard, S.W.
118 A Theoru of Apparitio1ls. [March 28~
commercial manner, and which existed as widely in the days of
Archimedes and in the days of Bacon as in our own, remained almost .
latent, because the right conditions were not applied to draw them forth
or measure them. When we consider the place which electricity now
holds in the world, and yet how trivial were the forms under which
men for ages had beEln wont to recognise it, and how little they thought
of lightning in connection with it, we must surely be cautious of our
assertions as to w/UJn men ought to have observed a force, and .what
particular phenomena they ought to have referred to it.
This last illustration is specially apposite. For, as it happens, our
present theory comprises elements which are connected in somewhat
the same way as the electrical phenomena of the firmament and of the
cat's coat. Under our term Telepathy * we connect very small
experimental, and very striking spontaneous phenomena. Apparitions
may stand for the lightning; while the ancient observations on the
attraction of amber for straw may be para.lleled by the modest
experiments in Thought-transference, to which the Society for Psychical
Research has been for some time inviting attention. Apparitions, on
the one hand, have been observed in every age, but observed with mere
terror and bewilderment. And on the other hand, candid friends have
expressed surprise at our taking a serious interest in getting a rude
diagram from one person's mind into another, or proving that ginger
may be hot in the mouth by the effect of unconscious sympathy alone.
Yet we hope to be able to show that these trivial cases of community of
sensation are the germinal indications of a far-reaching force, whose
higher manifestations may outshine these as the lightning outshines the
sparks on Puss's back. We hope to show that the lowest telepathic
manifestations may be used to explain and corroborate the highest.
The experimental work from which, mainly at any rate, the lower
manifestations have been drawn, is as yet indeed only in its infancy.
But the infancy is a vigorous one; and the results which, when the
subject was broached in our Proceedings two years ago, rested on
the assumption of the sanity and probity of a few observers, have now
been varied and repeated so as to divide the responsibility for their
genuineness over a group of persons too large, at any rate, to be
summarily discredited.
In thus insisting on Telepathy as a whole-as a conception of far-
reaching application-we are but following out a hypothesis which to
some of the highest intellects of the past appeared not only a rationaJ,
• We began byrestrioting this word to oases where the distanoe through which
transferenoe of impressions took place far exoeeded the soope of the recognised
senses. But there is great convenienoe in extending the term to all oases of
impressions oonveyed without any affection of tho percipient's recognised senses
w~tever may be his actual distance from the agent. '
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] A Theory of Apparitions. 119
but a probable one. The idea is no mere popular instinct. It .cOmes
across our path in works of established fame, from Bacon's stately
proposals for " experiments in consort touching the emission of
immaterial Virtues from the Minds and Spirits of man, either by
Affections, or by Imaginations, or by other impressions," to Goethe's
genial view that this power in the case of lovers" is particularly strong,
and acts even at a distance." Nor in referring to such names as Bacon,
euvier, Goethe, in support of a broad theory of supersensuous influence,
are we in any way bolstering up by antiquated authority a position
which modern discovery has undermined. We most strenuously insist
that whatever of rationality and probability tha.t position ever possessed
it possesses still. There is nothing in the advance of science since the
days of Goethe, or even of Bacon, which could possibly make tele-
pathy seem impossible to them now, if it seemed possible to them tl~en.
Physiology and psychology have, of course, advanced; the limits of the
known senses ha.ve been more exactly tested; the invariable cCHlxistence
of a physical with every psychical event has been more irresistibly
suggested. But the question of sympathy at a distance is left all the
time exactly where it was before. Analogy might lead us to suppose
that such sympathy, if it exists, has its physical basis, like so many
other phenomena of action between distant points. But such sympathy
if it exists, being ex 16ypothesi independent of the known organs of
sense, is also independent of our enlarged scientific knowledge of them.
We have here, in fact, a specially good illustration of the difference
between the negative dogmatism and the positive discoveries of modern
science, and of the dangers involved in treating the two with equal
respect. It is not the assertion of the possibility but the assertion of
the impossibility, that the necessary evidence to a widely surmised fact
may one day be forthcoming, which is hasty and hazardous; and such
attempts at finality lack wisdom in proportion as the prospect excluded
is vast, and the instinct which prompts its exclusion a mere moment (so
far) in the history of thought. If the instinct of the vulgar and the
intuition of sages should turn out to have been right, and the fact of
communication apart from the recognised sensory channels should once
be established, then the scope of the laws (possibly even of the physical
laws) which concern our deepest being would turn out to have been
quite arbitrarily limited; and the half-century which has surpassed all
others in the number of scientific paths which it has opened, would be
the very one which had shut out a legitimate curiosity from the most
inviting path of all. For in this direction may lie our clearest proofs
that we are not mere isolated drops in an aimless storm of atoms, but
interacting centres of force, and "every one members one of another."
And so far from the scientific study of man being a region whose
boundaries are pretty well mapped out, and which only requires to be
Digitized by Coogle
120 A TlteIJru of Apparitions. [March 28,
filled in with further detail by physiologists and psychologist&, we
should then perceive that we are standing only on the threshold of a.
vast terra incognita, which must be humbly explored before we can
-even guess at its true extent, or a.ppreciate its relation to the more
familiar realms of knowledge.
We present the ordinary forms of Thought-transference, then, as a.
:first step in this exploring process. And the experimental work, which
we thus place in the forefront of our argument, at any rate supplies a.
new and direct answer to the objection that the implied force-if it
exists--ough' to have manifested itself sooner. For in fact it did
manifest itself as soon as it was really looked for. Before exact expe-
riments were made, the faculty which we now call Thought-transference
was vaguely observed and obscurely asserted; as soon as exact
experiments were made, it was definitely observed and explicitly
asserted. The mode of experiment may reassure those who look on
the faculty as something dangerous or uncanny; we are still quite as
far as ever from any likelihood of reading each other's secrets. The
results have to be tried for either by a very distinct and irksome
process of concentration on the part of the person whose "thought" is
to be "read;" or through the establishment by particular means of
some sort of hypnotic condition in the" reader." It was when the
discovery was made that the somnambulic state could be artificia.lly
induced, that experimental community of sensation may be said to have
first presented itself. We could fill pa.ges with recorded experiments of
physicians and others in the early days of mesmerism in France, where
almost precisely the same phenomena. as ours were obtained with
" subjects" in the so-called "magnetic state." And wherever this induced
somnambulism has been largely practised, such phenomena have con-
tinued to appear. The novelty of recent years-that with which our
Society is specia.lly identified-is the systematic repetition of the same
experiments with non-hypnotised subjects. And the experiments, when
thus tried, have presented the same results which mesmerists had
already obtained in a. somewhat different form. No previous experi-
ments were contradicted by these results, since no experiments had ever
been performed from which the non-existence of the telepathic force
could be concluded: a.ll that happened was that what had always been
8U8pected to exist, as soon as exact trial was made was found to exist.
We proceed now to illustrate the way in which a.ll sorts and grades
of "telepathy" do in fact hang together. And with this view we
may conveniently defer our actual evidence for Apparitions until we
ha.ve given some simpler and less startling instances-instances which
ma.y form a transition between one end of the scale and the other-
of the diBtan' and spontaneous action of the self-same force which
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] A Tkeary of Appal'itions, 121
has been evoked within the four walls of a room by deliberate
experiment.
Now experiment has given indications of communication of very
various kinds, which follow in a somewhat indeterminate way the well-
known fourfold division of mental faculties into the emotions, the will.
the senses, and the intellect. And we shall find that the spontaneous
cases may be similarly grouped. We do not mean to assert -that this
division corresponds with the various ways in which telepathic impres-
sions really reach the percipient. The telepathic impact, as we are
disposed to conjecture, falls usually upon the aub-conscWus region of the
mind. It emerges into consciousness by whatever channel happens in
each case to be the easiest; but we cannot say what it is which deter-
mines whether the impression shall be felt emotionally as a diffused
gladness or gloom; or fall on the motor nerves as an impulse to some
special act; or be interpreted by the sensory centres as a visible figure,
or a sound, touch, taste, or smell; or, finally, shall be conceived as a
phrase or idea. But adopting the fourfold division for convenience'
sake and beginning with the emotional class, as the least clearly defined,
we may observe that the very vagueness of the emotions renders them
a field ill adapted either for precise experiments or precise records.
Strong emotion cannot be summoned up at will by an experimenter
even in his own mind; while, if it exists, it probably betrays itself in
ways beyond his control. And, even when these purely emotional
impressions occur on a large scale, and spontaneously, they are still so
far defective for purposes of evidence inasmuch as they depend on the
percipient's account of his own necessarily indefinite sensations. In
the domain of experiment we can, however, refer to the occasional
cases where a secret grief or anxiety on a mesmeriser's part is reflected
in the demeanour of his" subject." And to illustrate the spontaneous
effect, we will select a few accounts from witnesses not likely to be
accused of sentimental exaggeration.
We begin with two closely allied narratives from gentlemen of
acknowledged scientific position. And we may remark in passing that
men of science-who are not, of course, a large class-contribute, we
think, quite their proportional quota to our collection of evidence
throughout. The following case was sent to Professor Sidgwick by the
Rev. J. M. Wilson, head-master of Clifton College, a senior wrangler
and well-known mathematician* :-
• Most of the informants quoted in this and the subsequent Report are
privately known to us. But since it happens that many of them bear well-
known names, we have thought it better to omit in all cases the statement of our
acquaintanceship, rather than to insert it in cases where our personal attestation
of confidence would have looked highly superfluous. The narratives here given
are, of course. mere samples from 0. very large collection, which we hope soon
to lay before the public in its entirety.
Digitized by Loo
122 A Theory of Apparition8. [llarch 28,
CLIFTON COLLEGE,
January 5th, 1884.
The facts were these, as clearly as I can remember.
I was at Cambridge at the end of my second term, in full health, boating,
football-playing and the like, and by no means subject to hallucinations or
morbid fancies. One evening I felt extremely ill, trembling, with no
apparent cause whatever; nor did it seem to me at the time to be a physical
illness, a chill of any kind. I was frightened. I was totally unable to
()vercome it. I remember a sort of struggle with myself, resolving that I
wuuld go on with my mathematics, but it was in vain: I became convinced
that I was dying;
I went down to the rooms of a friend, who was on the same staircase,
and 1 remember that he exclaimed at me before I spoke. He put away his
books, pulled out a whisky bottle and a backgammon board, but I could not
face it. We sat over the :fire for a bit, and then he fetched some one else to
llave a look at me. I was in a strange discomfort, but with no symptoms I
eall recall, except mental discomfort, and the conviction that I should die
that night.
Towards 11, after some three hours of this, I got better, and went
upstairs and got to bed, and after a time to sleep, and next morning was
quite well.
In the afternoon came a letter to say that my twin brotherif. had died the
evening before in Lincolnshire. I am quite clear of the fact that I never
()nce thought of him, nor· was his presence with me even dimly imagined.
He had been long ill of consumption; but I had not heard of him for some
days, and there was nothing to make me think that his death was near. It
took me altogether by surprise.
JAMES M. WILSON.
Our next case is also from a scientific witness, who can hardly have
been tempted to exaggerate, since the experience which he thus records
greatly impairs the force of the main thesis of his book, which is
directed against the transmission of obscure influences (mesmeric and
the like) from one person to another.
[Translation of pp. 71-73 of "Der aogmcmnte Lebens-Magnetismull oder
Hypnotwmus" by Dr. E. L. Fischer, of Wiirzbt~I'g (1883).]
When I was a student at the University, I experienced, on waking one
morning, a quite extraordinary feeling of sadness. I was not in the slightest
degree unwell, and was aware of no reason for distress, and my state of
depression consequently made a great impression on me-the more so that I
normally enjoy the best spirits. I asked myself what could be the meaning
of it, and whether some serious illness must not be impending. I made
every effort to banish this deep melancholy, and especially to assume a gay
demeanour in the presence of my friends; but all my efforts were unavailing.
• One or two of the cases quoted by Mr. Galton, of oo~sentaneous action or
thought on the part of twins, seem to us to be probably referable to telepathio
impressions.
Digitized by Coogle
·1884.] .A Theory of Apparitions. 123
Before lecture two of them asked me what was the matter; they said I must
have something heavy on my heart. During the whole forenoon I remained
in this state of dismal wretchedness. All at once a telegram arrived from
home, informing me that my grandmother was taken very ill, and that she
was earnestly longing for me. There I had the solution of the riddle.
Nevertheless from that hour my melancholy gradually decreased, and in
spite of the telegram it completely disappeared in the course of the after-
noon. In the evening I received a second message, to the effect that the
danger was over. In this way the second phenomenon, the rapid decrease
of my wretchedness-a circumstance which in itself was Burprising, inasmuch
as the melancholy should naturally rather have increased after the receipt of
the :first news-received its explanation. For the afternoon was just the
time when the change in the patient's condition for the better took place;
and the danger to her life once over, her yearning for my presence had
decreased; while simultaneously my own anxiety was dispelled.
We have space for but one more instance, which is, at any rate,
sufficiently terse and business-like:-
20, RANKEILLOR STREET, EDINBURGH.
Decembsl' 27th, 1883.
In January, 1871, I was living in the West Indies. On the 7th of that
month I got up with a strange feeling that there was something happening
at myoid home in Scotland. At 7 a.m. I mentioned to my sister-in-law my
strange dread, and said that even at that hour what I dreaded was taking
place.
By the next mail I got word that at 11 a.m. on the 7th of January my
sister died. The island I lived in was St. Kitts, and the death took place in
Edinburgh. Please note the hours and allow for difference in time; and you
will notice at least a remarkable coincidence. I may add I never knew of
her illneBB.
A.C-N.
In answer to inquiries Mr. C--n adds :-
I never at any other times had a feeling in any way resembling the
particular time I wrote about. At the time I wrote about I was in perfect
health, and in every way in comfortable circumstances.
If further proof be needed that we have not to go to weak or
hysterical sources for evidence of these vaguer and more emotional sorts
(If telepathic impression, we may add that our collection includes under
this head accounts from two informants who, in very different ways,
.have obtained the highest reputation as acute and accurate observers-
Mr. Henry James and Mr. J. N. Maskelyne.
We come next to that branch of telepathy which manifests itself
as an influence exercised on the percipient's will; or on the motor
centres where will is transformed into action. And here the connec-
tion between the experimental cases (both in the normal and in the
Digitized by Coogle
12·1 A Theory of Apparitions. [March 28,
hypnotic states) and the spontaneous cases becomes at once very
marked.
Having space for only a. single experimental case, we choose one
which is of interest as showing II. "subject" midway between the
normal and the mesmerised condition. It is interesting, too, as the
first publication, on first-hand a.uthority, of an after-dinner incident
which made much sensation in Yorkshire society when it occurred,
and which even twenty years afterwards was still aJIuded to with
bated breath as a. manifest proof of the aJIiance of mesmerists with
the devil. The modern inquirer will ra.ther regret that this diabolical
assistance was so frequently perverted to mere works of charity and
mercy; for Mr. H. S. Thompson (formerly of Fairfield, now of Moor-
lands, near York) has devoted his almost unique mesmeric power mainly
to the cure and comfort of his tenantry and poorer neighbours, and
has only incidentally made, and rarely recorded, those experiments on
"the silent power of the will" which few men, we fear, in a. generation
are able to repeat.
MOORLANDS, YORK.
November, 1883.
DEAR SIR,-I will give you a sketch of some of the experiments I have
tried, and which lead me to the conclusion that the will is sufficient to
in1luence some people either far or near.
In 1837, I first became acquainted with mesmerism through Baron
Dupotet. The first experiment I tried was upon a Mrs. Thornton, who was
staying with some friends of mine, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Harland, of
Sutton. She told me that no one had ever succeeded in mesmerising her,
though she soon submitted to being mesmerised by me. She went to sleep
at once, and was very strongly influenced by my will. One night when I
was dining with Mr. Harland, after the ladies had left the room, some
gentleman proposed that I should will her to come back again, which I did.
She came directly, and after this I could not go to the house without her
going to sleep, even if she did not know that 1 was there.
I have met with many cases of thought-reading, but none so distinct as in
a little girl named Crowther. She had had brain fever which had caused a
protrusion of the eyes. Of this ill effect I BOon relieved her, and found that
she was naturally a thought-reader. I practised on her a good deal, and at
length there was no need for me to utter what I wished to say, as she always
knew my thoughts. I was showing some experiments to a Dr. Simpson, and
he asked me to will her to go and pick a piece of white heather out of a
large vase full of flowers there was in the room, and bring it to me. She did
this as quickly as if I had spoken to her. All these experiments were per-
formed when the girl was awake, and not in a mesmeric sleep.
Believe me, dear Sir, yours truly,
HENRY SrAFFORD THOlllPSON.
The following cases differ from the last in that the desire became
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] A Tlle~ry of Apparitions. 125
operative at a distance without any expectation of such a result 011
the part of the person who exercised it.
[Extract from. a Letter to Professor Sidgwick.]
CATHEDRAL Y..UtD, WINCHESTER.
January 31st, 1884.
'Sm,-As a constant reader of the Timll3, I have noticed the "Proceed-
ings" of the Psychical Society, and as your Society has invited communica-
tions, I respectfully beg to oft'er you a short statement of my experience on a
subject which I do not understand. Let me premise that I am not a scholar,
II.S I left school when 12 years of age in 1827, and I therefore hope you will
forgive all sins against composition and grammar. I am a working foreman
of masons at Winchester Cathedral, and have been for the last nine years a
resident in this city. I am a native of Edinburgh.
It is now more than 30 years ago that I was livmg in London, very near
where the Great Western Railway now stands, but which was not then
built. I was working in the Regent's Park for Messrs. Mowlem, Burt, and
Freeman, who at that time had the Government contract for three years for
the masons' work of the capital, and who yet carry on a mighty business at
Millbank, Westminster. I think it was Gloucester Gate, if I mistake not.
At all events it was that gate of Regent's Park to the eastward of the
Zoological Gardens, at the north-east corner of the Park. The distance
from my home was too great for me to get home to meals, so I carned my
food with me, and therefore had no call to leave the work all day. On a
certain day, however, I suddenly felt an intense desire to go home, but as I
had no business there I tried to suppress it,-but it was not possible to do so.
Every minute the desire to go home increased. It was 10 in the morning,
and I could not think of anything to call me away from the work at such a
time. I got fidgety and uneasy, and felt as if I must go, even at the risk of
being ridiculed by my wife, as I could give no reason why I should leave my
work and lose 6d. an hour for nonsense. However, I could not stay, and I
set oft' for home under an impulse which I could not resist.
When I reached my own door and knocked, the door was opened by my
wife's sister, a married woman, who lived a few streets oft'. She looked
surprised and said, "Why, Skirving, how did you know 1" "Know what 1"
I said. "Why, about Mary Ann." I said, "I don't know anything about
Mary Ann" (my wife). "Then what brought you home at present 1" I
said, "I can hardly tell you. I seemed to want to come home. But
what is wrong 1" I asked. She told me that my wife had been run over by a.
cab, and been most seriously injured about an hour ago, and she had called
for me ever since, but was now in fits, and had several in succession. I
went upstairs, and though very ill she recognised me, and stretched forth
her arms and took me round the neck and pulled my head down into her
bosom. The fits passed away directly, and my presence seemed to tranquillise
her, so that she got into sleep, and did well. Her sister told me that she
had uttered the most piteous cries for me to come to her, although there was
not the least likelihood of my coming. This short narrative has only one
merit; it is strictly true.
ALEXANDER SxmVING.
L
Digitized by Coogle
126 . A Theor!l oj Apparition8. [March 28~
Dr. Fischer, whom we quoted, describes how he was himself once
driven forth from the midst of a jubilee-dinner, by the urgent desire
(as it turned out) of a person whose need of his attendance was at
the time quite unknown to him; and we have reason to believe that
the experience is by no means unique in medical practice. We
received the following very similar case from Mrs. C--, 11, Upper
Hamilton Terrace, N.W. :-
December 17th, 1883.
On the 2nd of December, 1877, I was at church. My children wished to
remain to a christening. I said, "I cannot, somebody seems calling me;
something is the mstter." I returned home to find nothing; but next
morning two telegrams summoned me to the deathbed of my husband, from -
whom I had had a cheerful letter on the Saturday, and who left me in
excellent spirits on the ThlU'llday before. All Sunday he was dying, and my
friends could not telegraph, and there was no train. I only arrived in time
to see him die. As soon as I read your letter, my sons both said they re-
membered the circumstance quite well, and signed the enclosed. George
was 10 years old, John 12 years.
ELLEN 0-.
We remember, perfectly, our mother leaving the church, saying she felt
she was wanted, some one was calling her. The next day our father died,
the 3rd of December, 1877.
GEORGE C--.
JOHN A. 0-.
Here we have instances of an impression powerful enough to pro-
duce a distinct and unusual course of action-for Mrs. C-- assures us
that under ordinary circumstances she would certainly have remained
where she was-yet so obscurely seated in the mind that its own
source remains unrealised and unknown. Somewhat similar is the
process of rising by candlelight in pursuance of an overnight resolution
to catch an early train, while, though sufficiently awake to dress
quickly and carefully, one does not yet realise wlty one is in such a
burry to be up and out. A still closer paraJ.lel is offered by a
bypnotised "subject," who has been made in the sleep-waking state to
promise to go on some absurd errand when he wakes. He fulfils his
mission in just this mood of blank obedience to an inward impulse
whose origin he cannot trace, and which affects him, we may suppose,
like the migratory instinct that carries the lemming into the deep sea.
We none of us grasp our whole identity; the bark of our conscious
being may float on currents which neutralise each other in unguessed
-confusion, till one of them bears us for a moment with it, and
shows how much stronger than our rowing is the set of that hidden
sea.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] A Tileory oj Apparitiolls. 127
Our next class, 0. wide and important one, includes transferences of
actual 8ensatio~ensory telepathy as distinguished from transference
()f emotion, motor impulses, or abstract ideas. And here we naturally
find the line between sensation and ideation very hard to draw. This
is not the place to discuss the derivation of ideas from sensations; but
among our published experiments may be seen some curious instances
()f a sensation transferred, but modified in the transference by some
erroneous belief on the part either of agent or percipient as to the
precise nature of the sensation felt or transferred. Perhaps the trans-
mission of wcalised pains is as purely sensory an instance of telepathy
as can be well selected. We have occasionally obtained this phenome.
non in the normal state; but it is in the hypnotic state that, though
still rare, it is most markedly induced. Take a mesmerised " subject"
-who is sufficiently en rapport with his mesmeriser ; talk to him on some
question which engrosses his attention; and, in the middle of your
talk, suddenly pinch (for instance) the mesmeriser's right ear behind
the subject's back. The sleep-waker will cpntinue to listen and reply,
but his hand will fly to his own right ear, which he will rub with
manifest discomfort. Now here is a transferred impression which is as
purely 8ensory as we can well obtain, which prompts to an action nearly
or quite reflex, and is scarcely present in any conscious manner to the
sleep-waker's beclouded intellect.
Now, according to our theory of a close parallelism between the
induced telepathy of our experiments and the spontaneous telepael~y
which nature offers on a much larger scale to our examination,
we might fairly expect to find some cases where a localised
pain has been transferred from one person to another at a distance,
unaccompanied by any definite idea of the cause or source of the
pain thus felt. To give force to an account of this kind, it is
plainly important that the pain should be sudden, distinctly localised,
and not easily referable to some mere ordinary cause. If Brown were
to tell us that he got into such rapport with Smith at a friendly
Greenwich dinner that, when Smith's head ached the next morning,
Brown's ached also out of sympathy, we should hand over both head-
aches alike to a branch of science better established than our own. But
when Louis Blanc feels a shock through one of his arms, as if it had
been pierced through with a rapier, at the moment that Charles Blanc's
arm is pierced in a duel, * we feel that any ordinary sort of common
cause for the two events is excluded. The incident which we shall now
quote (occurring to Mr. Arthur Severn, the distinguished landscape-
painter, and his wife, and the account of which has been obtained for
us through the kindness of Professor Ruskin) presents th'3 ri:quisite
See" Memoirs of O. M. Young" (1871), pp. 341, 3'2.
L 2
Digitized by Coogle
128 A TheorV of Apparitions. [March 28,
characteristics of suddenness, localisation, and unusualness of the pain
in a. very high degree.
BRANTWOOD, CONISTON,
October 27th, 1883.
I woke up with a start, feeling I had h&d a hard blow on my mouth, and
a distinct sense that I had been cut, and was bleeding under my upper lip,
and seized my pocket handkerchief, and held it (in a little pushed lump) to
the part, as I sat up in bed, and after a few seconds, when I removed it, I
was astonished not to see any blood, and only then realised it was impossible
anything could have struck me there, as I lay fast asleep in bed, and so I
thought it was only a dream I-but I looked at my watch, and saw it was 7,
and finding Arthur (my husband) was not in the r()om, I concluded
(rightly) that he must have gone out on the lake for an early sail, as it was
so fine.
I then fell asleep. At breakfast (half-past 9), Arthur came in rather
late, and I noticed he rather purposely sat farther away from me than usual,
and every now and then put his pocket handkerchief furtively up to his lip,
in the very way I had done. I said, "Arthur, why are you doing that 1"
and added a little anxiously, "I know you've hurt yourself; but I'll tell you
why afterwards." He said, "Well when I was sailing, a sudden squall came.
throwing the tiller suddenly round, and it struck me a bad blow in the
mouth, under the upper lip, and it has been bleeding a good deal and won't
stop." I then said, "Have you any idea what o'clock it was when it hap-
pened ?" and he answered, "It must have been about 7."
I then told what had happened to me, much to his surprise, and all who
were with us at breakfast.
It happened here about three years ago at Brantwood.
JOAN R. SEVER.."i.
BRANTWOOD, CONISTON,
November 15th, 1883.
Early one summer morning, I got up, intending to go and sail on the
lake. Whether my wife heard me going out of the room I don't know ; she
probably did, and in a half-dreamy state knew where I was going.
I was left becalmed for half-an-hour or so, when, on looking up to the
head of the lake, I saw a dark blue line on the water. At:first I couldn't
make it out, but soon saw that it must be small waves caused by a strong
wind coming. I got my boat as ready as I could, in the short time, to receive
this gust, but somehow or other she was taken aback, and seemed to spin
round when the wind struck her, and in getting out of the way of the boom
I got my head in the way of the tiller, which also swung round and gave me
a nasty blow in the mouth, cutting my lip rather badly, and having become
loose in the rudder it came out and went over-board. With my mouth bleed-
ing, the mainsheet more'or less round my neck, and the tiller gone, and the
boat in confusion, I could not help smiling to think howsuddenly I had been
humbled almost to a wreck, just when I thought I was going to be so clever t
However, I soon managed to get my tiller, and, with plenty of wind, tacked
back to Brantwood, and, making my boat snug in the harbour, walked up to
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] A The01'1J of Appariti01i8. 129
the house, anxious of course to hide as much as possible what had happened
to my mouth, and, getting another handkerchief, walked into the breakfast-
room, and managed to say something about having been out early. In an
instant my wife said, "You don't mean to say you have hurt your mouth 1"
or words to that effect. I then explained what had happened, and was sur-
prised to see some extra interest on her face, and still more surprised when
she told me she had started out of her sleep thinking she had received a
blow in the mouth; and that it was a few minutes past 7 o'clock, and won-
dered if my accident had happened at the same time; but as I had no watch
with me I couldn't tell, though, on comparing notes, it certainly looked as if
it had been about the same time.
ARTHUR SEVERN.
It is fortunate that in this case the incident was bizarre enough to
stamp itself at once on the memory. For one main difficulty in col-
lecting cases of this sort is that, even if they do occur, they are not
likely to be observed or remembered. Their theoretical importance is
(very naturally) not discerned; they are thought trivial and purposeless
-merely incredible, without either pathos or dignity. In reality, no
narratives are more significant, or cast a more searching rayon the
obscure pervasive co-sentiency of man and man.
We will next give a sample of an auditory impression. And here
we could easily give cases in precise parallelism with our recorded
experiments--cases, that is, where the actual words used by a person
dying or in strong distress are represented to the consciousness of a
friend at a distance. But the following, a somewhat more complex
instance, is perhaps of still greater interest. We received it from
the Rev. Andrew J ukes, Upper Eglinton Road, Woolwich.
On Monday, the 31st of July, 1854, I was at Worksop, staying in the
house of Mr. Heming, the then agent there to the Duke of Newcastle. Just
as I woke that morning-some would say I was dreaming-I heard the voice
of an old schoolfellow (C. C.), who had been dead at least a year or two,
saying, "Your brother Mark and Harriet are both gone." These words were
echoing in my ears as I woke. I seemed to hear them. My brother then was
°in America; and both were well when I had las~ heard of them, but the words
respecting him and his wife were so vividly impressed upon my mind that
before I left my bedroom I wrote them down, then and there, on a scrap of
an old newspaper, having no other paper in the bedroom. Could they have
been the end of a dream, haunting me in the moment of waking 1 They
seemed to me like a voice from the unseen. That same day I returned to
Hull, and mentioned the circumstance to my wife, and entered the incident,
which had made a deep impression on me, in my diary, which I still have.
On the 18th of August (it was before the Atlantic telegraph), I received a line
from my brother's wife, Harriet, dated the 1st of August, saying that Mark
had just breathed his last, of cholera; after preaching on Sunday, he had
been taken ill with cholera on Monday, and had died on Tuesday morning;
that she herself was ill, and that in the event of hOer death she wished their
Digitized by Coogle
130 A Tke(fr!l oj Apparition8. [March 28p
children should be brought to England. She died the second day after her
husband, on the 3rd of August. I immediately started for America, and
brought the children home. The voice I seemed to hear, and which at first>
I thought must have been 110 kind of dream, had such an effect on me, that,
though the bell rang for breakfast, I did not go down for some time. And
all that day, and for days after, I could not shake it off. I had the strongest
impression, and indeed conviction, that my brother was gone. But you
should notice that at the moment ~hen I seemed to hear this voice my brother
was not dead. He died early next morning, on the lst of August, and his
wife nearly two days later, namely, on the 3rd of August. I do not profess
to explain it-I simply state· the facts. I ought perhaps to add that we had
no knowledge of the cholera being in the neighbourhood of my brother's
parish. My impression was that both he and his wife must, if the voice was
true, have been taken away by some railway or steamboat accident.
Here we may conjecture that the first shock of alarm in the
mind of Mrs. Mark J ukes-at the idea of cholera in her house-
hold-flashed itself upon the mind of Mr. Andrew Jukes at the
impressibie moment of waking, but clad itself in his brain, for some
untraceable reason, with a. dreamlike reminiscence of the old schoolboy
friend.
We are excluding from this Report all cases where the impression
received suggests a presence wholly external to the percipient's organ-
ism, and thus seems to differ not only in degree but in kind from the
more ordinary forms of experiment. In the case of BOUnd, however, it
is admittedly difficult to draw the line between what is inner and what
is outer sense; and we have therefore included Mr. Jukes' narrative.
If we were to pass from the ear to the eye, we should be able to cite
instances of incipient visualisation of a very similar kind; but the
subject of visual phantasms will be more conveniently treated as a.
whole in our next Report.
From these cases of transferred Bensory impression the transition to
transference of more abstract conceptions is gradual and imperceptible.
Ideas are derived from sensations, and intimately interfused with
surviving elements of sense; and in the spontaneous, as in the
experimental cases, the percipient who receives an idea from another
mind can hardly tell in what shape or investiture it sprang up in his
own-clothed upon by mental picture, or mental word, or in the state
described by one great Irish orator when he said of another, "He brings
a. brood of lusty thoughts into the world, without a rag to cover them."
Let us quote first a case (originally cited by Mr. Knowles, in a letter to
the Spectator of January 30th, 1869) which closely resembles some of
our published experiments :-
Mr. Robert Browning tells me that when he was in Florence some years
since, an Italiannobleman (110 CountGiunasi, of Ravenna), visitingatFlorence,
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] A Theory of Apparition8. 131
was brought to his house without previous introduction, by an intimate friend.
The Count professed to have great mesmeric or clairvoyant faculties, and
declared, in reply to Mr. Browning'savowed scepticism, that he would under-
take to convince him, somehow or other, of his powers. He then asked Mr.
Browning whether he had anything about him then and there which he could
hand to him, and which was in any way a relic or memento. This, Mr.
Browning thought, was, perhaps, because he habituallywore no sort of trinket
or ornament, not even a watch-guard, and might therefore turn out to be a
safe challenge. But it so happened that, by a curious accident, he was then
wearing under his coat-sleeves some gold wrist-studs to his shirt, which he
had quite recently taken into wear, in the absence (by mistake of a sempstreBB)
of his ordinary wrist-buttons. He had never before worn them in Florence
or elsewhere, and had found them in some old drawer, where they had lain
forgotten for years. One of these studs he took out and handed to the Count,
who held it in his hand awhile, looking earnestly in Mr. Browning's face,
and then he said, as if much impressed, "C'b qualche cosa che mi grida nell'
orecchio, 'Uccisione, uccisione I'" (There is something here which cries out
in my ear, "Murder, murder I")
"And truly," says Mr. Browning, "those vert studs were taken from the
dead body of a great-uncle of mine, who was violently killed on his estate in
St. Kitts, nearly 80 years ago. These, with a gold watch and other personal
objects of value, were produced in a court of justice, as proofs that robbery
had not been the purpose of the slaughter, which was effected by his own
slaves. They were then transmitted to my grandfather, who had his initials
engraved on them, and wore them all his life. They were taken out of the
nightgown in which he died and given to me, not myfather. I may add that
I tried to get Count Giunasi to use his clairvoyance on this termination of
ownership, also; and that he nearly hit upon something like the fact,
mentioning a bed in a room, but he failed in attempting to describe the room
-situation of the bed with respect to windows and door. The occurrence of
my great-uncle'S murder was known only to myself, of all men in Florence,
as certainly was also my posseBBion of the studs."
Mr. Browning, in a letter to us, dated the 21st of July, 1883,
affirms that the account is "correct in every particula.r"-adding, "My
own explanation of the matter has been that the shrewd Italian felt his
way by the involuntary help of my own eyes and face. The guess,
however attained to, was a good one." We think that in this conjec-
tuml explanation the illustrious author of Bordello has done imperfect
justice to his own power of concealing his thoughts; and we fancy that
his involuntary transparency of expression would not have enabled the
wily Italian to "feel his way" to murder. But of course such cases are
more complete when agent and percipient are at a distance which
excludes involuntary hints.
Such instances are the following. The :first is from a lady who
requests us not to publish her name. We learn from the friends with
Digitized by Coogle
132 A Tlleorg of Apparitions. [March 28,
whom she was staying that they "remember the circumstances perfectly
well."
On the 5th of November, 1855, when I was staying at a country house
with several friends, one wet November day we amused ourselves by reading
aloud, of which I did a large share, but was so overcome by the impreBBion
that a very dear brother was drowning, that ice had broken, and that he was
drawn under it by the current, that I could not at all follow the purport of
the book, and when alone dreBBing for dinner, could only control my distress
by arguing that there could be no fear of ice accidents, as the weather was
exceptionally mild at that time. We afterwards learned mybrother had been
in very actual peril, having jumped into a canal dock to rescue a companion,
who, being short-sighted, had fallen in in the dusk of the evening. My
brother was then an undergraduate at Cambridge, and I was in Wales. He
received a medal from the "Humane Society," and a watch, &c., from the
members of his college, in recognition of the act. I have never had any
other similar impreBBion of death or danger to anyone.
The next case is from Mr. Robert Castle, estate-agent to many of
the Oxford colleges :-"-
OXFORD, October 13th, 1883.
In the years 1851 and 1852, when I was from 15 to 17 years of age, I was
left in charge of a considerable extent of building and other estate work at
Didcot, Berks, at which some 50 or 60 men were employed; and for so young
a person a good deal of responsibility was put upon me, as I was only visited
occasionally, about once a fortnight on an average, by one of the seniors
responsible for the work.
Occasionally this senior was my brother Joseph, about eight years older
than myself, and who had always taken, even for a brother, a very great
deal of interest in my welfare, and between whom and myself a very strong
sympathy existed.
I was very rarely apprised by letter of these visits, but almost invariably
befQre my brother came (sometimes the day before, at other times at some
previous hour on the same day) it would suddenly come into my mind as a
quite clear and certain thing, how I cannot say, that my brother was coming
to see me and would arrive about a certain hour, sometimes in the morning
and sometimes in the afternoon, and I cannot remember a single occasion, on
which I had received one of these vivid impressions, on which he did not
arrive as expected.
I had, without thinking particularly about it, got to act upon the faith of
these impressions as much as if I had received a letter, and the singularity of
the occurrence was not brought very forcibly to my own mind until one day
when the foreman asked me to give him instructions as to how a portion of
the work should be carried out, when I answered him quite naturally, "Oh,
leave it to-day, Joe will be here about 4 o'clock this afternoon, and I would
rather wait and ask his advice about it." The foreman, who had access to
my office, and usually knew what letters I received, said, "Perhaps it
would be as well, but I didn't know that you had received a letter from
Oxford." I had to explain to him that I had not received a letter, and
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] A Theory of Apparition.,. 133
that it was merely by an impression I knew my brother was coming, and
upon this I got a hearty laugh for my credulity.
As my brother turned up all right at the time named the foreman would
not be convinced that I had not been playing a trick upon hinl, and
that I had not received a letter and put it away, so that he might not
know of it.
The strangeness of the matter then induced me to arrange with the fore-
man always to let him know, as soon as I might have the opportunity, on the
occurrence of these impressions, so that he might check them as well as my-
self, and he, although he gave up all attempts to explain the singularity of
the thing, came afterwards to trust the certainty of their being right as much
as I did myself.
I told my brother of them, who was very much puzzled and could not
account for so strange an occurrence; but on comparing my statements as to
the time when the impressions occurred to me, in a number of cases, he said
~hat, so far as he could check the time, it would seem to have been always at
or about the time when he first received his instructions, or knew of the
arrangement having been made for him to come.
As both the foreman and my brother have been dead for some years past,
I have no means of comparing their recollections of these matters with my
own.
Perhaps I should add that my brother was living at Oxford at the time,
10 miles or so from Didcot, and that although I was visited from time to
time by other gentlemen beside my brother, I cannot remember having had
these previous impressions in any case except his. ROBERT CASTLE.
The next case may also fairly be classed as the transference rather
of an idea than of an emotion. "Ve received it from Mrs. Herbert
Davy, Burdon Place, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
December 20th, 1883.
A very old gentleman, living at Hurworth, a friend of my husband's, and
with whom I was but slightly acquainted, had been ill many months. My
sister-in-law, who resides also at H., often mentioned him in her letters,
saying he was better or worse as the case might be.
Late last autumn my husband and I were staying at the Tynedale Hydro-
pathic Establishment. One evening I suddenly laid down the book I was
reading, with this thought so strong upon me I could scarcely refrain from
putt.ing it into words: "I believe that Mr. C. is at this moment dying." So
strangely was I imbued with this belief-there had been nothing whatever
said to lead to it-that I asked my husband to note the time particularly, and
to remember it for a reason I would rather not state just then. "n is
exactly 7 o'clock," he said, and that being our dinner hour, we went
downstairs to dine. The entire evening, however, I was haunted by the
same strange feeling, and looked for a letter from my sister-in-law next
morning. None came. But the following day there was one for her
brother. In it she said: "Poor old Mr. C. died last night at 7 o'clock.
It was past post time, so I could not let you know before."
E. M. DAVY.
134 A Theory of Apparition8. [Ma.rch 28.
December Zlth., 1883.
I have a perfect recollection of the night in question, the 20th of
October, 1882, when my wife asked me to tell her the time. I told her the
time, as she "had a reason for knowing it," she said. She afterwards told
me that reason. HERBERT DA.VY.
In all these cases the idea conveyed to the percipient, though it
doubtless involved a faint sensory unage and had a certain amount of
emotional colouring, was at any rate abstract in so far as it was the
idea not of an object, but of a fact or event. The following account
presents an interesting contrast in the total absence of an emotional
element; while the idea transferred was of the most unpictorial kind.
Mr. Keulemans, a scientific draughtsman, of whose accuracy as a.
witness we have had several examples, has experienced so many of these
coincidences that, even before our inquiries quickened his interest in
the matter, he had been accustomed to keep a record of his impressions
-which, as he informs us, were invariably justified by fact.
In the summer of the year 1875, about 8 in the evening, I was return-
ing to my home in the Holloway·road, on a tramcar, when it flashed into my
mind that my assistant, Herr Schell, a Dutchman, who knew but little
English (who was coming to see me that evening), would ask me what the
English phrase "to wit" meant in Dutch. So vivid was the impression
that I mentioned it to my wife on arriving at my house, and went so far as
to scribble it down on the edge of a newspaper which I was reading. Ten
minutes afterwards Schell arrived, and almost his first words were the
inquiry, "Wat is het Hollandsch voor 'to wit '1" (The words scribbled on
the newspaper were not in his sight, and he was a good many yards from it.)
I instantly showed him the paper, with the memorandum on it, saying,
"You see I was ready for you." He told me that he had resolved to ask me
just before leaving his house in Kentish Town, as he was intending that
evening to do a translation of an English passage in which the worda
occurred. He was in the habit of making such translations in order to
improve his knowledge of English. The time ofhis resolution corresponded
(as far as we could reckon) with that of my impression.
J. G. KBULEDUliS.
We have now, in rough adherence to the common division of man's
nature into emotions, will, sense, and intellect, indicated under each of
these heads some apparent anomalous and aberrant phenomena, which
we have attempted to place in close parallelism with actual ea:penment,
and to colligate provisionally under the general conception of telepathy,
the precise law of which has yet to be ascertained. Meanwhile, we
must specially warn the reader against concluding, from the wordforoo
which we are obliged to use, that the law is necessarily & phyBicoJ, one,
or that this distant-working force can in any way be C(K)rdinated with
the recognised forces of the material world. Not only, as with other
delicatl>! phenomena of life and thought, is the subjet;tw6 side of the
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Li. Theory of Appart"tiotls. 131)
problem the only one that we can yet attempt to analyse: we do not
even know where to look for the objective side. If there really is a..
physical counterpart to the fact of transmission-over and above the
movements in the two brains which are the termini of the transmission
-that counterpart remains wholly unknown to us. The physicaJi
analogies hitherto suggested for telepathic impulses are aids to imagi-
nation and nothing more. Mr. Knowles' "brain-wave" was a metaphor
well chosen for its purpose, namely, to attract public attention to a.
novel field of inquiry. But the transformation (by Dr. Maudsley) of
"brain-wave" into the more ambitious" mentiferous ether" only serves
to throw into stronger relief the real absence of provable likeness
between the psychical and the physical modes of communication. In
fact, the first nodus of the problem lies in the relation of telepathy
to space and to matter, in the states in which matter is known to us..
Unless some such relation can be demonstrated we cannot reasonably
speak of a psychical telergy-an action of mind on mind at a distance-
-as correlated with any energy which we have learnt to measure.
For even the force of gravitation diminishes with distance, and there is.
no force whose influence on a distant point is not liable to be inter-
cepted by various forms of matter; while, on the other hand, it seems.
not improbable that the action of mind on mind operates as easily from
London to Melbourne as from this room to the next. It is true that in
our actual experiments we have found the physical nearness of agent
and percipient to be in the normal state always, and in the hypnotic
state usually, a necessary condition of success. But in our experi-
ments we seem to be dealing with weak and incipient stages of a.
'I'apport which, when thoroughly established, and vivified l:!y adequate
stimuli, may be transmitted without appreciable impairment or delay,.
not only through walls, but over oceans, or through the centre of the
earth.
Understanding, then, that from physical conceptions we can hope at
present for nothing more than suggestive analogies, we prefer to seek
those analogies on more sides than one; not only in the conceptions of
radiance and undulation, but in the conceptions of attraction ana
affinity. The illustration which we should be most inclined to use, as
we note the extraordinary intensification of telepathic impulses at the-
moment of dissolution, would be drawn from "nascent hydrogen "-from
some gas, let us say, which, set free by an electrical current from its.
long union with some less volatile element, shows at its first moment
of deliverance an unusual eagerness to unite itself with a.ny suitable-
substance in its vicinity; but which, in default of such substance,
escapes away, recoverable by us no more from its diffusion in the height.
of heaven.
But the testing or verffication of such speculations as these must be
Digitized by Coogle
)36 A Theory oj Apparitions. [March 28,
I
left for a later stage of this inquiry. The achievement which we claim
for our Society is not a. theory ofcauses but a colligation of facts. We
claim that it has been shown that certain small experimental results
can be produced, and that certain impressive spontaneous phenomena,
generally discredited as anomalous, can be plausibly shown to belong to
the same class as these small results of experiment. To recur once
more to a previous metaphor, we may say tha.t we have produced
frictiolla.I electricity on a small scale, and indicated the probable con-
nection of lightning with the sparks thus obtained. But we have not
yet tracked the birth of the thunderbolt, nor lit our highways with the
obedient flame.
Here we must break off. Weare obviously as yet only on the
threshold of Apparitions as commonly understood-the visible phan-
toms, externalised in space, which, above all things, our title pledges us
to discuss. This further step, it may seem, must surely sever us from
the experimental support to which we have hitherto clung, and bring us
face to face with quite· new problems. But though this is to some
extent true, we shall not quit our old basis. We shall still hold fast to
our fundamental doctrine of Thought-transference; we shall still seek
the origin of the phenomena not in "transcendental physics," but in
human psychology. The object of ournext Report will be to show after
what fashion the minds of men, as already known to us, may be the
matrix of these airy crystallisations, the camera whence these phantas-
mal images are projected upon the waking world-what law is their
Summoner and their Disperser, the Hermes which" guides them harm-
lessly along the darksome way."
Digitized by Coogle
.1884.] Report of tke Oommittee on Haunted Houses, 131
II.
SECOND REPORT
OJ'rBE
COMMITTEE ON HAUNTED HOUSES, &c.
Committee :-REV. W. D. BUSHELL, M.A.; F. S. HUGHES,* B.A.;
A. P. PERCEVAL KEEP; F. PODMORE,* l'I.A.; HENSLEIGn
WEDGWOOD, J.P.; and EDWARD R. PEASE,* Hon. Sec.
A year has elapsed since the last report of the Committee on
Haunted Houses was issued. During this time we have not been idle,
although we have no very startling theory to propound, or discovery to
announce. 'Ve have been occupied in the main in collecting and sifting
evidence, in printing those stories which seemed moderately complete,
and in making some few personal examinations of houses reputed to be
haunted.
Weare moreover convinced that at present we are not in a position
to attempt anything beyond the collection of evidence and the making
of ~xperimental observations. Our subject is an obscure and difficult
one; the stories which come before us present very various features, and
a considerable experience will be necessary before, with any confidence.
we can judge of their evidential value. But, as a whole, the evidence
before us unquestionably points to the reality of this class of abnormal
phenomena. Weare not investigating the origin of fables; we are
examining facts; and the quantity of evidence for them, which we are
now engaged in sifting, far surpasses our expectation.
Nevertheless, as noticed in our first report, we still find but few
opportunities for making experimental investigations of Haunted
Houses. Often such houses belong to families who are not anxious to
attract attention, and perhaps ridicule, by allowing us to make serious
examinations. In other cases, where something abnormal is seen by a
tenant, we do not hear of it till he has left the house, which is either
occupied by another tenant or else ean only be rented by us at consider-
able expense.
But beyond these there is another more serious obstacle to experi-
mental investigations. It is very seldom that phantoms appear or
disturbances occur with any frequency or regularity. On this point we
shall have something to say further on. Meanwhile it is sufficient to state
that when cases of repeated appearances are investigated, they usually
Digitized by Coogle
138 Report of the Oommittee on Haunted Housea. [March 28,
"prove to be in this respect exaggerated. The original account is that the
figure was Been or the noise heard on one or two occasions in the course
-of perhaps a dozen years. The report of such a story that first reaches
us often is that a figure is constantly seen, or a noise heard every nigl~t.
As therefore there is no satisfactory means of testing the reality of the
·phenomenon, except upon the rare occasions of its occurrence, we are
losing hope that the experimental branch of our inquiries will furnish
us with much matter of value.
Nevertheless, we would beg any of our members and friends who
are so fortunate as to inhabit haunted houses, to afford us, if possible,
some opportunity for investigation. It may be that we are not likely
to obtain results, that is, to see or hear anything abnormal. But there
is some small chance of success, and for this chance we are willing to
incur much trouble and expense. If one of us could have some actual
experience of these phenomena, we should feel amply rewarded.
In these circumstances we are obliged to fall back on the testimony
of those fortunate persons who have seen phantasms or heard abnormal
noises. Now this evidence is not necessarily of small value. If a
phantasm is seen by several trustworthy witnesses, their account of the
matter is not vitiated because they do not happen to be members of
the Haunted House Committee.
We have made an analysis of the 65 stories which are printed as
being provisionally complete, but which, of course, form but a small
proportion of our collection. We have classified their evidential value
under four qualities, ABC and D. Of these 28 are A, or first...
class stories, for which the evidence is clear and strong, and the
witnesses for which we regard as worthy of credence. This does not, of
course, represent the true proportion of A stories amongst the total
nnmber which reach us, since vague, unsatisfactory, and second-hand
stories are not usually worth printing. We now propose to give some
particulars of these 28 A stories, for the purpose of showing, not so much
what they are, as what they are not.
In the first place the whole of these stories are first-hand. In
every instance we have received the account from the actual witness
of the occurrence reported, and, in most cases, our informant is known
personally to some member of the Haunted House Committee, or of the
Literary Committee.
We are accused of obtaining our evidence principally from women.
This is, no doubt, true to some extent, and very good reasons could be
given why women should be our most frequent and accessible witnesses.
Nevertheless, for these 28 cases we have the evidence of 40 witnesses, of
whom 14 are men and 26 women.
The appearance of figures is recorded in 24 of these stories,
whilst 4 record noises only. This is, of course, a proportion the reverse of
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Report of tke Oommittee on Haunted Houses. 139
what obtains amongst our stories as a whole. Noises are more abundant
than visual appearances, but they are far less easily verified. If 8
phantom is seen it can be clearly described, and must generally be
explained as an hallucination, or as a dream, or as something abnormal.
But noises may be all these, and, as well, may be rats, or wind, or wood
starting, or a dozen other things. Therefore, it is only now and then
that we obtain accounts of haunted houses where nothing has been
seen, which are sufficiently clear and detailed to be treated as first-class
evidence.
Omitting the four cases of noises only, and five other eases which
are of an exceptional nature, we have left 19 stories, all as
regards evidence, of the A or first class. In these stories we shall now
point out the presence of certain common features, and the absence of a
good many other features which might have been expected by anyone
fresh to the subject.
In the magazine ghost-stories, which appear in such numbers every
Christmas, the ghost is a fearsome being, dressed in a sweeping sheet
or shroud, carrying a lighted candle, and speaking dreadful words from
fleshless lips. It enters at the stroke of midnight, through the
.sliding panel, just by the blood stain on the floor, which no effort
ever could remove. Or it may be only a clanking of chains, a tread
as of armed men, heard whilst the candles bum blue, and the dogs howl
These are the ghosts of fiction, and we do not deny that now and
then we receive, apparently on good authority, accounts of apparitions
which are stated to exhibit some features of a sensational type. Such
cases are, however, very rare, and must for the present be dismissed as
exceptional. .
In examining the normal type of apparition, we find in the first ,
place that these appearances scarcely ever bear any relation to special 'I'
times. In none of the 19 cases we are considering is the appari-
tion seen at any known fixed time, either of the day or of the year.
There are, no doubt, stories that seem to be authentic of apparitions on
special days and at particular hours. One of the cases now published
records the occurrence of noises at a fixed time. But in general this
would seem to be an exceptional feature. It may indeed exist in some
-cases where it has not been observed, but on the other hand it is a
sensational detail which might easily be added in cases where it is
really absent.
This fact, if such it be, is important. We are usually told that
phantasms appear on the anniversary of some tragic occurrence, reputed
as their origin. But if subsequent observations show that the supposed
time-relation has no real existence, our task will be simplified when we
have to ascertain the cause of these phenomena.
Another characteristic which these 19 cases present to our
Digitized by Coogle
140 Report of tke Oommittee on Haunted Hou8e8 [Maroh 28,
~otice is the apparently casual and objectless nature of the appearances•
.A figure isseen, and that is all. It does not act as .if alive; it does
not speak or use its limbs. If it moves, it is usua.lly described as
"gliding," that is, moving in anindefinite manner. Itseems to resemble
a magic-lantern figure more'closely than anything else we can suggest.
We may mention in this connection that the production of ghosts as
practical jokes, whether by magic lanterns or by any other meanS,
would seem to be very uncommon. Only one distinct case has come
under our notice.
Turning to the uescriptions of the apparitions, we notice that in
12 cases the figure is taken to be a. living person, whilst in 7
cases only it is recognised at once as a. phantom. Again, in
13 cases it is seen distinctly, and described in detail; in 6
cases only it is stated to be shadowy and indistinct. On these points,
therefore, the evidence is not decisive; and for the present we can only
say that the figure, if seen distinctly, is found to appear in such clothes
as are now, or have recently been, worn by living persons.
We find that in 7 out of the 19 cases a sudden death, often either
a murder or a suicide, appears to be connected with the cause of the
apparition. In 7 other cases long residence in the loca.lity, and
often a peculiar attachment to some special house or room, seem to be
similarly connected with it; whilst in the remaining 5 cases no ex-
planation of its origin is suggested to us.
As regards frequency of appearance, the A' stories are not a fair
test, since the fact that we have good first-hand evidence for several
occurrences of the same apparition is, of itself, generally a sufficient
reason for giving the story a place in the first class. Yet in 8 out
of these 19 eases, we have records only of a. single appearance. And
even when a figure is seen more than once, it is often only at intervaLs
during a considerable period. The instances where an apparition is
seen on several occasions during one year are very few indeed.
r-- The generalisations which we have now laid before you are pro-
I fessedly made from the 19 cases under consideration, but in reality
, we have drawn them from our knowledge of the whole mass of evidence
in our possession. We find that a large majority of the stories which
prove to be genuine, possess certain features; and, on the other hand,
we find that in nine cases out of ten, when a. story differs widely from
the type, it proves to be incorrect, or unattainable from an authentic
source. Weare not prepared to affirm that all exceptional stories are
unworthy of credence. But we are inclined to believe that a larger
collection of material, and a more careful study of it, will, before long,
enable us to lay down with some certainty and precision the laws of
the occurrence of those phenomena.
In conclusion, we must repeat that we offer no hypothesis to account.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.J Report of the Oommittee on Haunted Houses. 141
for the facts which we are discussing. We have avoided the convenient
word "ghost" because it might be understood as conveying the idea
that phantoms are due to the presence of departed spirits. To this
hypothesis we desire to give no countenance. lI!ltil our collection of
facts is_larger, and our e.xa.minat~on of~hem_ more complete, we abso-
rutely decline to theorise. .
--Wehave now to bring before you two narratives, the first of which
is a fair example of the normal type. It is a good case, because we
have accounts of the apparition on three distinct occasions, and from
three separate persons. Moreover, the story is of recent date, and the
witnesses are all alive, and personally known to our President and to
Professor Barrett.
The evidence is as follows :-
In relating simply what I saw one July morning in the year 1873, I will
first describe the room in which I saw it. It is a bedroom with a window at
either end, a door and a fireplace at opposite sides; the door is nearer the
front window, and the room is on the upper storey of a two-storied house, as
you know, some miles from the city of D--. The house is an old one,
said to have been built before the Rebellion; it has all the appearance of
dating as far back as that, at least, the walls being unusually thick, and the
roof high-pointed and uneven. A large old-fashioned garden lies in front,
and a yard opening upon the public road at the rear. The occupants at the
time I speak of were my brother Henry, myself, and a sen-ant woman.
The latter slept in a room in the basement storey. A lobby divided my
brother's room from mine. On the night before the morning above-men-
tioned, I had locked my door, as usual, and having undressed and put out
my light, I fell into a sound dreamless sleep. I awakened, I should. think,
about 3 o'clock in the morning-of the hour I am not sure-with my face to
the front window. One of my oddities consists in disliking cross lights, so
that I had got into the habit of having the blind of the back window drawn
and the shutters closed at night, and of leaving the blind raised and the
shutters open towards the front, liking to see the trees and sky when I
awakened.
Opening my eyes now I saw right before me the figure of a woman,
stooping down and apparently looking at me. Her head and shoulders were
wrapped in a common grey woollen shawl. Her arms were folded, and they
were also wrapped, as if for warmth, in the shawl. I looked at her in my
horror, and dared not cry out lest I might move the awful thing to speech or
action. I lay and looked and felt as if I should lose my reason. Behind
her head I saw the window and the growing dawn, the looking-glass upon
the toilette table, and the furniture in that part of the room. After what
may have been only seconds-of the duration of this vision I cannot judge-
she raised herself and went backwards towards the widow, stood at the
toilette table, and gradually vanished. I mean she grew by degrees trans-
parent, and tha.t through the shawl and the grey dress she wore I saw the
white muslin of the tablecover again, and at last saw that only in the place·
where she had stood. I have heard people spea.k of lying •• without moving;
M
Digitized by Coogle
142 Report oj the Oommittee on Haunted Hou8e8 [March28,
a muscle." For hours I lay as I had lain on first awaking, not daring
even to turn my eyes lest on the other side of the bed I should see her
again, and first had courage to stir when the servant came to call me.
Now there is one thing of which I could take my oath, and that is, that I
did not mention this circumstance either to my brother or our servant. I
was almost morally certain that if I had done so the latter, whom we valued,
would leave us, and that the former would tum me into ridicule. We had
been only about four months in that neighbourhood, and had few acquaint-
ances, and 1 am equally certain that I mentioned the occurrence to none of
them. At the distance of about a mile and a-half from us lived a family
with whom I had long been intimate, but to whom my brother had not then
been introduced. After passing a sleepleBB night with a perfect glare of
lamp-light about me, and not daring even to close my eyes, I started on the
second day to see my friends and consult with them. As we sat at luncheon
I told them about it, half dreading the ridicule of my host, but though he
smiled at first he went gravely into it, and proved in a sensible, matter-of-
fact way, entirely to his satisfaction, that the apparition was attributable to
the state of the drainage or that of my stomach. His wife and daughter
were sorry for my evident nervousness, and, I fancy, set down a good deal
of it to a very imaginative mind. However, I went home considerably
relieved, and struggled hard to obliterate my vivid remembrance with my
friend's arguments.
Exactly a fortnight afterwards, when sitting at breakfast, I noticed that
my brother seemed out of sorts, and did not eat. On asking if anything
were the matter, he replied: "No, but I've had a horrid night-mare.
Indeed," he went on, "it was no night-mare. I saw it early this moming,
just as distinctly as I see you." " What 7" I asked. " A villainous looking
hag," he answered, "with her head and arms wrapped in a cloak, stooping
over me, and looking like this--" He got up, folded his arms, and put
himself in the posture I remembered so well. "0, Henry," I said, "I saw
the same a fortnight ago." "And why did you not tell me before 1" he
asked. " Because," I said, "I was sure you would only laugh." " I should
be sorry," he said, "if anyone laughed at me if I mentioned this; it has
quite upset me." He then described how the:figure moved towards the door
and disappeared. I asked him if she wore a cloak or a shawl, and he said it
might have been either-he was chiefly struck by her malevolent face and
her posture.
About four years afterwards, in the month of July, one evening about 7
()'clock, my second eldest sister and two little children were the only people
at home. The eldest child, a boy of about four or five years, asked for a
drink, and on leaving the dining-room to fetch it my sister desired the
children to remain there till her return, leaving the door open. Coming
back as quickly as possible, she met the boy pale and trembling on his way
to her, and asked why he had left the room. " Oh," he said "who is that
woman, who is that woman 1" " Where 7" she asked. " That old woman
that went upstairs," he answered. She tried to convince him that there
was no one else in the house, but he was so agitated and so eager to prove it
that she took his trembling hand in hers and brought him upstairs, from
()ne room to another, he searching behind curtains and under beds, still
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Report 0/ the Oommittee on Haunted Hou8e8. 143
maintaining that a woman "did go upstairs." My sister thought that the
mere fact of a woman going upstairs in a house where he was 'a stranger
would hardly account for the terror of the child. My brother had then
married and gone to live at a distance.
A gentleman with whom we became acquainted in the neighbourhood,
started when we first told him of what we had seen, and asked had we
never heard that a woman ·had been killed in that house many years
previously, and that it was said to be haunted. He is a sober-minded,
religious man, an Englishman of middle age, the most unimaginative man
I ever met, but he says he firmly believes we actually saw what he
described.
I have heard that the house was previouslyfor years unlet owing to having
got the name of being haunted, and this was our only reason for keeping the
story very much to ourselves. About three years since, I mentioned what
we had seen to the sub-agent, a respectable man, and he seemed annoyed
and asked if anyone had been telling us anything of the kind, to which we
replied in the negative. We had been awakened night after night by the
sound of heavy blows such as I have heard produced by breaking up peat
with a cleaver, and, day and night, heavy footsteaps going up and down
stairs. One night as I was going to bed-my youngest sisterhad been in about
10 minutes previously to say good night-I heard a loud knocking at the panel
of my door-someone knocking with the knuckles-and I called out, "Come
in ! As there was no answer I called out louder, "Come in ! " taking for
granted it was my sister come back for some reason. As she did not answer
and was not at my door when I opened it, I went across the lobby to her
room, saying, in rather a tone of annoyance, "Why didn't you come in 1"
when I saw the room was dark, and getting a light saw she was sound
asleep.
Another night, while undressing at the far end of the room, I heard the
sound of a large bunch of keys flung violently on the toilette-table. At first
I was startled, but took my light over to examine it, thinking I might have
left keys or some heavy metal in such a position as to cause a fall like what
I had heard, but still could not get over the idea that they were flung
violently. There was nothing of the kind to be seen on or near the table.
Two or three small keys hung in one of the drawers of my chest of drawers,
and were not in motion. Frequently, in that ro(tm, both in day-time and
.at night, my dress has been pulled as if grasped by some hand.
On one occasion, as I was laid up with erysipelas in my foot, my youngest
sister had a bed moved into my room and slept there to take care of me.
When one night, as I lay wide awake, my foot being rather painful, there
was a loud sound beside my bed-as if some heavy body had fallen-indeed,
the whole room shook with the fall. My sister started up out of a sound
sleep, and cried out, "Wha~ is it 1 What is it 1" in a frightened voice.
"What did you hear 7" I asked. "Something heavy falling there," she
said, and pointed to the spot at which I heard it-which was, in fact, the
very spot on which my visitant appeared to me. She got up and searched .
the room, but found nothing to account for it.
May 23rd, 1883. H. C. 8. B.
Digitized by C:o~gle
144 Report of the Oommittee on Haunted Houlles. [March 28,
About three years ago, on the night of the 7th July, I was awakened
from a sound sleep by someone speaking close to me. I turned round saying,
.. What is it, Emily 7" thinking that a sister who slept in the room next
mine had come in. I saw plainly the figure of a woman who deliberately
and silently moved away towards the door, which remained shut as I had left
it. She disappeared, and not till then did the slightest doubt of my visitor
being supernatural enter my mind. Then I got really frightened, saying to
myself it must be the "Grey Lady," as we had for years called our ghost,
the story of which I had often turned into ridicule. A few minutes after-
wards I heard the hall clock strike two. I may mention that neither
shutters nor blind were closed. I thought it best to say nothing of what
had occurred to the only sister then at home, but the next evening when
talking to a gentleman who was with us, she said suddenly to me, "Did you
hear any noise last night 7 I thought it sounded as if in your room." I said,
" No-at what hour 7" "Two o'clock." Soon she left the sitting-room, and
I told the friend with us, under the promise of secrecy, what I had seen.
M. B.
July 5th, 1883.
So far as I recollect, it was about this time 10 or 11 years ago, I was
asleep in the house in question, and suddenly about 6 o'clock on a fine
summer's morning I was awakened by a feeling or presentiment of approach-
ing evil. I opened my eyes and distinctly saw the form of a darkly-clad
elderly female bending over me with folded arms, and glaring at me with eyes
of the most intense malevolence and malignity. I tried to scream, and
struggled to withdraw myself from her, when she slowly and silently receded
backwards and seemed to vanish through the bedroom door. I cannot say
whether the door was locked) I generally keep it so at night, but it was
certainly closed tight.
.August 1st, 1883. H. B. B., Solicitor.
The next narrative is a remarkably clear account of a haunted
house where noises were heard, but nothing was ever seen. It was
written by a well-known Church dignitary, from whose widow we have
received it. She was cognisant of all the facts related, and confirms the
accuracy of the account in every detail. The case is remarkable as
showing a periodicity in the noises, which is, as we have previously
stated, by no means a common feature.
About 18 years ago, having completed the probationary period of
two years from my ordination as deacon, I was in search of a curacy.
Amongst others which came under my notice was one in the south-west of
the county of S. The parish was extensive and the situation very retired.
It was a sole charge, and a commodious house was at the disposal of the
curate. The curacy was accepted, and in due time my wife and I
proceeded to take possession of our new home. We reached it on the after-
noon of a dull February day.
The vicarage we were to occupywas a square spacious building, surroUnded
by lawn and shrubberies, garden and orchard. The house was detached.
situated a short distance from the village, and separated by a road from two
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Report of tke Oommittee Oil Haunted Hou8e8. 145
or three cottages which were the nearest dwellings. Our rooms were large
and sufficiently lofty, everything was in good repair, and we congratulated
ourselves on having secured a comfortable home.
It was, I remember, a Friday afternoon on which we arrived, and we
worked with a will, and had two or three rooms fit for occupancy by Saturday
evening.
Night fell, shutters were fastened, bolts shot and keys turned, and my
wife and I retired to bed on that Saturday, not reluctantly, for we had
worked for a couple of days as hard as porters in a warehouse.
We had not as yet engaged a servant, and had, therefore, availed our-
selves of the help of an honest country woman who lived hard by. When I
made all fast on the Saturday night, that honest country woman, my wife,
and myself were-to the best of my knowledge and belief-the only three
living beings within the four walls of the vicarage. Long before twelve we
were all in the land of dreams, and probably some way beyond it, in that
realm of sleep to which no "extravagant and erring" dream ever finds its
way. Suddenly, however, there broke on our drowsy ears a sound which
murdered sleep. In a moment, almost before consciousness had come, I was
out of bed and on my feet, and even then it seemed as if that strange noise
was only just passing into the accustomed silence of deep night. My wife
was as abruptly and completely roused as myself, and together we listened
for some repetition of what had disturbed us, or for some further token to
guide us to the discovery of its cause. But nothing came. It was obviously
my business to make an investigation without delay, for the natural solution
of the mystery was that some one or more persons had made their way into
the house.
Accordingly I hurried on a few articles of dress and set out on an
exploring expedition. Before doing so, however, I looked at my watch, and
found that it was just 2.5 a.m. I wish to call particular attention to this
fact. I made a thorough search over the whole house. I examined the
fastenings of the doors, the shutters of the windows. All was safe, all was
quiet, everything was in its place. There was nothing left for me to do but
to return to my room, go to bed, and think no more of the disturbance.
This last was not so easy. Neither my wife nor I could persuade ourselves
that it was 110 mistake. The sound was so palpable, broke on our sleep with
so peremptory a summons, pealed on our half-awakened senses with so pro-
longed a crash, that neither could its reality be doubted nor its impression
thrown off.
It struck me, then and afterwards, as being like the crash of iron bars
falling suddenly to the ground. Certainly there was a sharp metallic ring
about it. Moreover, it was prolonged, and, instead of coming from some
fixed point, it seemed to traverse the house like a succession of rattling
echoes, treading hard on one another's heels.
I speak of it not specially as it impressed me on the particular occasion
to which I am referring, but from my general estimate of its character; for
I may as well say at once that my acquaintance with it was not limited to
the experiences of that one early Sunday moming. Of course--on my return
to my room-when we talked the matter over, it occurred to us to ascertain
whether the good woman from the village had also been roused by the din.
Digitized by Coogle
146 Report oj tke Oommittee on Haunted Houset. [March 28,
However, as she had not herself given any signs of alarm, we resolved to
wait to see whether she had any tale to tell in the morning.
Well I the remaining hours of darkness passed away quietly enough,
and when morning came we found that the third member of our household
had been a sharer with ourselves in the mysterious visitation. She, like us,
had been rudely awakened, and had long lain awake in a state of consider-
able disquietude and alarm.
To her, however, the thing was not quite 80 strange and unlooked for as
to us. "Oh dear," she said, "I've heard tell of it afore, but never till last
night did I hear it, and don't want to again."
She had heard tell of it before. But there was not much more to be got
out of her, and she seemed unwilling to discuss the subject. "It was a.
conceit," she said, and that was all she choE8 to say about it. On one point,
however, she was clear enough, and that was the necessity of going home
that evening to look after her house and children. She would give us her
services during the day, but she could not well be spared from home at nights.
To this effect, therefore, an accommodation was made with her, and my wife
and I stood committed for the coming night to be the sole garrison of the
vicarage, whether it was to be assailed by tangible force or impalpable
sounds. The Sunday duties were duly discharged. I met my parishioners
in their church for the first time; looked round with satisfaction on a large
and attentive, though not perhaps especially intelligent congregation,
and could not help wondering whether any of those stolid young farmers and
peasants, whose faces were turned 80 impassively towards the pulpit, had
been indulging in a grim practical joke at my expense.
In due time, my wife and I found ourselves alone in the vicarage: the
darkness of a winter night without, a snug wainscoted parlour, a bright fire,
and sundry creature comforts within. Thus we sat, till about 8 o'clock. It
then occurred to us to make an examination of the house, though we had
taken care-as soon as it became dark and our handmaid had left us-to make
everything, as far as possible, secure. We rose, then, and set off together.
and passing out of our sitting-room, found ourselves in the square entrance
hall, the door of which opened into the garden. Scarcely were we there
before we heard a noise which made us pause and listen. The sound came
from the long passage upstairs into which all the bedrooms opened, and was
simply the sound of human footsteps walking slowly but firmly along the
palll'lOge. There was no mistake about it. Bold, distinct, and strong, each
footf.J1 reached our ears. At once, candle in hand, I dashed upstairs, three
steps at a time, and in a moment was on the landing and in full view of the
passage. But there was nothing to be seen. My wife, of course, followed
me, for she was becoming nervous. Together, therefore, we entered and
searchlld the bedrooms. But our search was fruitless. H anybody had been
there he had contrived by some way inexplicable to us to make his escape. A
more complete and anxious examination of the house was the necessary
consequence of this adventure, and we pretty well satisfied ourselves that,
whatever might have caused the sounds we had heard, we were not the
involuntary entertainers of any unbidden guest of flesh and blood. To make
assurance doubly sure, I unbarred the yard door and took a survey of the
outside premises. From this work, however. I was rather hastily recalled by
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Report of tne Oommittee on Haunted IIou8e8. 147
my wife, who announced that the inexplicable footsteps were again in motion,
and though on my return they had ceased, yet once more that night they did
us the favour of letting us hear them before w~ went to bed. Now at this
point I am bound in honesty to say that when we returned to our parlour fire,
which had a very encouraging and comforting look about it, my wife and I,
in discussing the matter, did hint at the possibility of our having fallen in
with "a haunted house." And it is only fair to add that we neither of us
were so settled in all unbelief of the supernatural, as without further con-
sideration to scout the notion as absurd. But assuredly we did not jump at
once to any such conclusion, and were content with simply passing a resolu-
tion to the effect that the disturbances were somewhat extraordinary and
rather disagreeable than otherwise.
That night we experienced no further annoyance, and indeed for a week
or two there is nothing of any particular significance to record.
In the meantime we found ourseives fairly settled. One strong and
willing female servant did all that we needed to have done indoors, and alad
of about 14 years of age was engaged to look after a couple of ponies and to
do the sundry odd jobs. This boy, it must be observed, did not sleep in the
house, so that unless we had a visitor, which did not often happen, the
number of the inmates was only three. Our female servant was a stranger
from a village at some distance, and had not, as far as we knew, any
acquaintances in the place.
For some little time,.as I have intimated, we were not much disturbed. The
unexplained sound of footsteps we occasionally heard, but we troubled our-
selves as little as possible about it, believing that whatever it might be it was
at all events very inoffensive and not likely to interfere much with our
comforts or prerogatives.
However, in due time we were favoured with a new development and
that, too, of a kind which was sufficiently distinct and obtrusive. There was,
it must be understood, a range of attics at the top of the house reaching
over the full extent of it. We found them empty and in good repair, and
we converted them into store-rooms for our boxes, packing cases, &c. They
were reached by a small staircase opening off the main passage upstairs; and
having deposited in them everything that we wished to put out of the way
we secured the staircase door.
We had gone to bed one night as usual, and were about quietly to drop
asleep, when all at once there commenced a tumult overhead, which very
soon made us as wide-awake as we had ever been in our lives. The noise
was, confessedly, of the most vulgar, commonplace, and substanMaJ kind. It
was-or rather I should say it seemed to be-the result of the tossing about
over the attic floors of all the boxes, cases, and bundles stored there. It
was loud, boisterous, and persistent. There was a bump, and a rattle, and
a roll, and a crash. Of course an investigation was an obvious necessity,
but an investigation discovered nothing. All was quiet. Everything was
apparently undisturbed and as much in order as it ever had been, or, in
such a place, could be expected to be. We were confessedly perplexed,
and moreover,-as far as that, as well as the other occurrences went, we
were condemned to the humiliation of remaining in a state of unrelieved
perplexity.
Digitized by Coogle
148 Report of tlte Oommittee on Haunted Hou8e8. [March 28,
But, besides, some supplementary entertainments were provided for our
benefit. From time to time a succession of distinctly audible knocks would
greet our ears. These knocks varied in their type. At one time they were
hurried, eager, impatient; at another, slow and hesitating. But, however,
in one style or another we were treated to them, I should sayon the average,
four nights a week during our sojourn at C--. These were, of all the
phenomena, the commonest. I am bound, in justice to the unknown cause
of them, to say that we were seldom disappointed in our expectation of
hearing them. They were not very alarming, certainly, and after a little
familiarity had bred the requisite measure of contempt, they were not
particularly disturbing.
One feature about them, however, deserves to be noticed. Sometimes,
while lying awake, an involuntary listener to their tattoo, I was provoked to
the use of a little sarcasm or what school-boys would call "chaff'." I would,
for instance, address the hypothetical agent and bid it" be quiet, and not
disturb honest people in their beds," or I would challenge it, if it had any
request to make or any complaint to lay, "to come out and do it in a manly,
straightforward way." Somehow or other these remonstrances were not well
received. They always led to louder, more hurried, and if we may use such
a term, more passionate knocking. The reader may smile at the notion of
any connection between any wild words and the intensified rappings, and I
do not wish to assert that there must necessarily have been any connection.
I simply state the fact that coincidently with my challenge, the rappings
intehsified. I do not theorise, I tell a round, unvarnished tale. Possibly it
was a coincidence and nothing more.
Did we-it may be asked-say anything to our neighbours about what
we were so frequently experiencing 1 For a considerable time we did not.
We had determined to hold our tongues for several reasons. In the first
place if we talked about what had so much of the mysterious about it, we
might give rise to exaggerations, and excite alarms which would make it a.
difficult matter to keep a servant or to get one. Moreover, we knew little of
the characters of the people amongst whom we had come, and we thought
that if it was the result of a trick we should, by saying nothing about it,
be more likely to discover it, or to tire out the performers by assumed
indifference. Hence, though our servant, who was a stout-hearted country
wench, sometimes dropped hints of nocturnal disturbances, we always put
aside the subject and discouraged her attempt to talk about it. So far I
have strictly confined myself to what came under my own observation-to
what I heard with my own ears. And I think that the experience of my
wife and myself does not reach beyond the rappings, the confused noises in
the attics, the well defined pacing of footsteps about the house, and that
grand satanic crash. On these the changes were from time to time rung.
They began soon after our arrival, they were kept up with tolerable
activity during our stay, and for anything I know we left them behind us
when we departed. The great noise which greeted us on the first Sunday
moming, as it was the most startling of all the phenomena, so it was the
least frequent. Weeks sometimes passed without our hearing it at all. But
wllenever we did hear it-if we took the trouble to ascertain-we always
found that it occurred at two o'clock on a Sunday morning. In the course of
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Report of the (Jommittee on Haunted House8. 149
time, we had incontrovertible evidence that it might manifest itself to some
persons in the house, without my wife or myself being conscious of it.
Knowing how overwhelming the sound always appeared to me when I did
hear it, I cannot but consider this fact one of the most wonderful things in
the whole business. I will show, however, that it was so.
As the winter passed away, and our country became more attractive, we
bad a few visitors; amongst the earlier comers was a young lady, a very near
'relative of my wife. We agreed to say nothing to her about our own
;experiences, partly because we did not want her to be frightened by anticipa-
tion, and partly because we wished for a little independent, unprejudiced and
spontaneous testimony. We very soon got it; our friend had not been many
:nights with us, before she began to put questions as to why we had made
Isuch a stir in the house after everybody, as she supposed, had retired to rest.
lour answers to these inquiries were, as might be expected, a little vague and
iunsatisfactory. Once or twice she asked whether there was to be a funeral,
for she had heard under her window what she concluded to be the sexton
:digging a grave, and she expressed a little surprise that he should choose to
:ply his melancholy trade during the hours of darkness. She was, of course,
aasured, as was indeed the case, that no funeral was about to take place, and,
'moreover, that whatever she heard under her window, it was at all events
not the process of grave-digging, for the churchyard lay on the other side of
'the house. This was conclusive enough, no doubt, against her theory, but
she did not the less persist in asserting that on several occasions she had
heard a noise beneath her window, and that that noise was, in her judgment,
the result of some form or other of spade-husbandry. I have no doubt of
the reality of the impression made on her mind, but I never myself heard
the sounds which she described.
I was not, however, particularly surprised, when, on another occasion,
she told us that someone had walked along the passage, and knocked at her
door, but that in answer to her call of "Who's there 1" no reply had been
vouchsafed, and no attempt at entrance into her room had been made.
At length Sunday morning arrived, and we met at the breakfast table•
•• Whatever was the matter last night 1" was our kinswoman's earliest
greeting. " What a clatter somebody made! I was so thoroughly awakened,
that I got up and shouldhave come out of my room to see what had happened
had it not been that I was afraid of encounteringyour dogs I However I was
80 much disturbed that I could not easily compose myself again to rest, and
as I stood at my window, peering into the darkness, I heat'd the church clock
drike two." Hereupon my wife and I exchanged very significant looks. Our
friend had heard that night-though we had not-what we had begun to call
"The Great Sabbath Alarum." We then told her something of our own
experience, and her impression of the sound harmonised with our own. I
shall only mention one more incident collateral to what we ourselves observed,
for it is on our personal experience that I rest the value and the interest of
my story.
We were absent from home for a week or two during the autumn, and on
our return our servant reported the following occurrences :-
One evening she had gone out into the village to do some business and
had left the servant boy in sole charge of the house. He was seated by the
Digitized by Coogle
150 Report oj the Oommittee Oil Haunted Houses. [March 28,
kitchen fire, when he heard some one,-as it seemed-tramping about the
passages. He went to ascertain who it was, and what might be his business,
but finding no one, he returned to the kitchen and tried to fancy that he was
mistaken. Presently he again heard the apparent and palpable sound of
human feet, and again he ventured to explore the premises, though with
nerves a little more unsteady, and with glance more hurried andretrospective.
Again he made a bootless quest. But when from his quiet seat in the
chimney corner he heard for a third time the same mysterious echoes, it was
too much for boyish flesh and blood. He rushed out of the house, hurried
down the village, and never stopped till he told his breathless tale to the
gaping inmates of his father's cottage. I have already mentioned that for
some time I said nothing to any of my parishioners on the subject of these
nocturnal disturbances.
Ultimately, however, I introduced the subject in a conversation with a.
very excellent Christian woman, a long and patient sufferer from a bodily
infirmity, which altogether confined her to her bed. She had seen better
days, was a Churchwomanof a good old type, full of a calm and soberreligioUB
spirit. Her cottage was just opposite to the vicarage, and the window of the
little room in which she lay commanded a full view of it.
I told her what from time to time we had heard and as'ked her if any
reports of such matters had ever reached her ears. She at once said that.
there had often been talk of such disturbances, and that some, at least, of
my predecessors in the curacy had been a good deal annoyed by them. More-
over she -w.ded, what I am sure she would not have said if she had not
thoroughly believed it-that she had herself at times seen flickering and
intermittent light at the attic windows. Now it must be borne in mind
that, during my occupancy of the house, these attics were not used, that I
never myself entered them at night but on the occasions when I sought
to discover the cause of the noise heard there, that there was but one
possible. entrance to the whole suite, and that we had made that secure, and
as far as we could judge, had the means of admission exclusively in our own
power.
My informant further told me of certain transactions which had taken
place in that house in the last century, and of which she had heard from her
elders, which, if they could be verified, and could be fairly connected with
the disturbances in the relation of cause and effect, would certainly assist in
enabling one to arrive at a theory as to the nature of the disturbances them-
selves.
But it is not my object to theorise, but simply to relate phenomena and
leave them to be judged on their merits. For the facts related, I again say
I can honestly vouch; for their causes I am almost as much thrown on con-
jecture as my readers, for with all the pains I took I never could make any
discovery. The explanations· which will probably suggest themselves to
many, did not fail to suggest themselves to us. There was first of all the
possibility of a practical joke. But supposing that with the care I took, and
the watch I kept any persons could have gained admission to the house, they
must have been the most patient and dreary jokers that ever gave their
unrequited and unappreciated services to the genius of mischief. To say
nothing of former years, only fancy anyone troubling himself to keep up for
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Rep01·t oj tl~e Oommittee on Haunted IIouses. 15-1
12 months at all hours of the night (and occasionally in the day-time), a
succession of incoherent and inarticulate noises. Methinks a performer of
average ability would have tried the experiment once or twice in way of a
'Visible manifestation.
Then again there is the resource iii such cases of rats. Well ! I have a great.
respect for the capabilities ofrats in the way ofnocturnal clamour. If, however,
they really achieved all that came under my own observation, then I must
say that their abilities are wonderful. How, for instance, did they accomplish
-and how did they so exactly time-the Great Sunday Crash 1 There is a
circumstance that deserves to be considered by anyone who may care to
suggest an explanation of what I have related. I have always been some-
thing of a dog-fancier, and I had at that time, two Skye terriers of pure
breed, excellent house-dogs, uncompromising foes to vermin, ready for any
fun, with no delicacy as to letting their sweet voices be heard, if they saw
good reason for speaking out. Once during our sojourn at C--, they did:
speak out to good purpose. The winter was a rough one, times were not
good, and there were several robberies of houses in the neighbourhood. An
attempt was made on the vicarage. My trusty dogs, however, gave prompt
alarm, I was roused by their fierce barlcing, reached a window in time to see
more than one dark figure on the lawn below, and was able to address such a.
remonstrance to them as led to a retreat, expedited in some measure by the
discharge of a few shots from a pistol. I mention this incident simply to
contrast the behaviour of the dogs on that occasion with their conduct in the
presence of the mysterious noises. Against these they never once by bark
or otherwise made any demonstration. Perhaps they did not hear them. It,
would seem otherwise, however, for when at such times, in making search
a.bout the house, I came where they were, I always found them cowering in
a state of pitiable terror. Of this I am quite sure that they were more per-
turbed than any other members of the establishment. If not shut up below
they would make their way to our bedroom door and lie there, crouching and
whining, as long as we would allow them.
Our experience of the phenomena, which I have described, extended
over a period of 12 months. At the end of that time I was appointed to a..
benefice in another part of England, and consequently resigned my curacy.
We turned our backs on the vicarage, not sorry, it must be confessed, to be
done with our nocturnal alarms, but disappointed at not having been able to
discover the cause of them.
I have never visited the place since, and never had the opportunity of
learning whether the attentions paid by those secret and invisible agents to
us have ever been renewed in favour of our successors.
Digitized by Coogle
