{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1teresa_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Teresa P NDE 7191","mylang":"de"}
          	        Teresa P NDE 7191  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Teresa P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3646 Teresa P NDE 7191  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was 21 years old and 4 months pregnant.  It was around 11:00 pm.  That night of the year 1991, I had an accident: I fainted due to lack of oxygen and bumped my head open at the back of my neck level.  I returned at 11:38 pm. I felt I was abandoning my body through the same opening where I had bumped my head. I got out, and I didn’t even stop to look back.  I didn’t look at anything in the room.  I simply elevated in a diagonal line towards a light that I saw. I felt great peace, happiness, vital force, health, harmony and a great expansion.  There was nothing like gravity. The light was there and I had to reach it.  There was a soft breeze, it was the ideal weather.  The breeze caressed me.  I felt like flying and floated lightly. 

Then I began to listen to voices coming from this light.  They were very happy, very happy repeating, ‘There comes Tere! There comes Tere!’ Then all the voices repeated at the same time, ‘Don’t look back! Don’t look back! Don’t look back now! I could recognize one of the voices immediately: the distinct voice of my mother. I obeyed these voices, indeed that was my intention: NOT TO LOOK BACK. It was not attractive to me, because by doing so, I had to turn my sight from the light towards a deep blackness; which I knew if I watched it, I was going to get lost.  I advanced towards the light.  

I started noticing a floating arch, similar to a backstage, and then light.  The arch was huge and perfect.  Before reaching the arch, I saw it. It was beautiful and attractive, suspended and floating there. When I was able to touch it, it was majestic, very, very big and nice. I felt an expansion but I felt little in comparison to the arch. I wasn’t questioning anything because everything was perfect. Listening to my mother there was so natural, she was there and it did not surprise me, it was like if I understood everything.  There were no more questions. But everything was like a contradiction, I knew it when coming back and the questions with no answers started to pop up as the days passed. 

This expansion was so clear and different as we commonly know it, time and space were eliminated.  I felt I was time, occupying every space.  I could be everywhere, anywhere at the same time at every moment, in the time I wanted, with no limits, just wanting.  I didn’t need time to get there or a path to follow, everything just was.  I did not see landscapes, did not listen to music, didn’t smell anything, and did not see known people.  Nothing of the sort was shown to me.  I just listened to voices that came from the light.  I was like a very fine-tuned sensor for them.  I felt people in the light, but they were like ‘light’ in the light. I could not distinguish their faces. There was also a kind of table; I ‘repeat’ that I did not see this table. I just felt it.  

I felt all the voices talking to me and they were around this ‘table’ but there, everything was lighted.  This did not last for more than an earthly second, because a very strong thundering surrounded me, it was so loud: like throwing big rocks into a very deep canyon.  I did not get to negotiate because I wanted to stay over there.  

This time, without feeling the need for a trip back, like I had felt when I was going, I just opened my eyes. I felt compressed, encapsulated in my body, I opened my eyes and cried like a baby, and now I had to accept I had to stay here and that is my problem. I was so expanded in my event that, for many years, I could not explain it.  Contradictions will start, like a paradox; at the ‘same time’, something else was shown to me, more contradictions: but it was now in this world. That is why I talk about the example of the brick and the water to explain the expansion over there, and that is why I say that still, with all that expansion, I remained like a screw that was part of a big machine. 

It was like a huge Being that I could not get to appreciate in its wholeness; because I was just like a baby that is developing inside its mother. Although that baby could not see the face and body of its mother, he knows about her and feels her, he knows she is much bigger than he is and he feels protected; the same way the mother feels her baby, they don’t need to look into each other’s eyes, only to transmit this mutual unique feeling. I call this GOD.   

This way I could not get to see all the greatness that surrounds us, protects and loves us, I just felt it. Following this idea, now I’m going to describe one of the most extraordinary parts of my journey, which took place 18 years after my experience.  I had this accident in January 1991 (take note), but it wasn’t until the year 2000 that my mother would die.  I don’t know if I am explaining myself: I listened to my mother’s voice 9 years and some months BEFORE she actually died.  I stayed with this sensation for a long time, what does this mean? I asked myself countless times, ‘What is this all about?’ It didn’t have any logic! I knew that voice was my mother’s voice, but it seemed contradictory.  I could not prove it, didn’t have any evidence.  Just her, and she was very far from me physically because she was at about 1000 miles away in California, USA.  She was helping her sister who just had given birth.

Two months later, my mom came back home, I observed her a lot and she asked me what was going on with me and why I was watching her so much.  Something was telling me not to tell her that about herself. Silence lasted until the year 2000, when she was dying of cancer, more than 9 years later.  I always knew that was her voice, then seeing her: I was speechless. About 17 hours before her death, I was with her, she had episodes of absence, as if she was there without being there, that was my impression. I was folding some towels and observing her.  But we are free in our thoughts, so I began to talk to her with my thoughts and I told her, ‘Mom, I heard your voice years ago over there, I know you were there, a long time ago’. 

She responded with her voice, ‘I know, while I was going, I saw you coming’.  I dropped everything I was doing and approached her to ask her more and she got lost again.   At 12:18 am she was dying, now I was the one telling her, ‘Don’t look back, don’t look back now and don’t stop watching the light’. Now all had inverted, almost 10 years before I listened to her voice over there, while she was here, almost 10 years after I was telling her what the voices were telling me from the light and in the same way, she told me she could see me coming, now while I was with her. This is not the only time we are on and I repeat my insight.  

I know now that I am not only what I see here in this world, I observe myself from somewhere else, just like the sun observes its rays in this world from itself. This just limiting the sun to an only ray of sunshine, but we know there are more than one.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Enero 1991

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was fine; indeed I was doing really well.  Everything happened so fast, I began to feel I had no breath and I fainted, although it was not the fainting itself which endangered my life, it was when I was falling I bumped the back of my neck on the rim of a concrete step.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   There is no point of comparison, the state of consciousness that you have at this level is way higher than what you can have in your everyday existence.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During my experience I knew very clearly that I had abandoned my body, I got out of my body like fumes coming out of a mouth when smoking.   Meanwhile, I was climbing in a very soft and conscious manner, but my highest conscious state was right there, when that light irradiated me in front of the arch.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was a sensor, I could see just by feeling, I was not using my eyes, vision is wonderfully clear and expanded, perfect.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My auditory sense was much better during the experience than before the experience.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was advancing with my attention fixed on the light; I also felt the light with its attention on me, because it was like a magnet that attracts to itself.  But everywhere there was darkness and gives an impression of a tunnel while you get to the light. .

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My mom was alive here in this world and I listened to her and felt her over there.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It is a light that is alive.  It is alive! I felt how I was filled with it through many horizontal particles that came with a soft strength from the arch towards me.  It is nice and makes me happy just to remember it (it is hard to explain), but is peace, is love. I felt the most beautiful thing in it.  It was like a light rain of light, bursting with pressure but that feels very soft and lovely.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Everything was emotion, feeling.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I would say that the arch was like the portal, but I felt the movement was inside, just a feeling, but it remained in the portal.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I felt an understanding of things; therefore I understood I had to return. Being there, there was no resistance, nobody told me I had to come back, and there was no pushing or pulling me to here.  In any case, it was that strong thunder, so powerful, it surrounded me and in that instant, I opened my eyes here on earth.  It was here again that I thought, and from that first moment, I asked myself how come I did not get to negotiate, because anyone would want to stay there.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment   Sólo creo en Jesucristo y creía desde antes de mi ECM.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I am interested in spiritual matters and I already told who I consider my religion.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       No comment   Mi religión es Jesucristo, pero sin confundir que tenga que ser a través de alguna iglesia. Creo en Jesús y eso no implica la necesidad de pertenecer a una iglesia.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Yo sabía que por lo que todos decían Dios casi era seguro que existía, luego por mi misma y por otras razones personales mi interés se volcó en Jesucristo en quien creo y ni siquiera vi en mi ECM, pero era consistente a mi creencia, aunque nunca imaginé lo que viviría y a qué magnitud.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My belief increased with a focus towards something bigger, my interest is not only on what my eyes see.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Two luminous beings were in front, they were observing me, approached me closer to the limit of the portal, like they knew I was going to be there, but they did not speak to me, they only transferred me something and that’s when I felt I understood everything and felt everything. But there were other beings inside and some more even further in, but they were all gliding like light, moving inside the light, then I felt the table and the beings around it.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Claramente hay un sentido de unidad, nada ni nadie está separado.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Dios existe.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   It has been easier for me to feel the sensations of others, more precisely: understanding the emotions they have inside.  Sometimes I can feel with anticipation, their actions or what they will say in certain situations.  Almost like watching their intentions.  In these cases, the purpose has been to help; sometimes help is not just physical. There are people who suffer because of internal situations, therefore invisible, and it is always a phrase or a conversation that gives us hope in the precise moment, if there is openness great, if not, it is the same, I respect.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Que sólo tendremos entendimiento perfecto si su base es el amor. Que cuando tienes entendimiento entonces también entiendes el por qué del sufrimiento, por lo tanto el sufrimiento desaparece. El amor tiene en si todo el entendimiento. Nuestras vidas, han

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Si al dejar el cuerpo se está consciente de que ya se abandonó y quedó atrás, entonces sé a consciencia de que yo sigo siendo quien yo soy, sin necesidad del cuerpo. La pregunta se responde por si sola.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     La humildad, yo en total quietud ante tanta grandeza, la verdadera grandeza que estaba viviendo. Yo lo llamaría la  grandeza de un reino como dije antes. Sin embargo, se mostró tan humilde. Después de eso no hay algo en el mundo que deslumbre o ambiciones. Lo material del mundo ya no es la finalidad, te puede gustar algo material  y querer tenerlo, pero no lo peleas, ni sufres por ello, antes renuncias a eso. Al entender lo que es, lo material sólo toma su posición pues ya conociste lo verdadero y más grande y al tenerlo, lo disfrutas y agradeces pero sabes que pasará.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     La libertad de ser yo, expandida, libre como nunca, protegida y feliz, en paz profunda. El amor más grande y no sólo es decir la palabra amor, sentir como mencioné antes todo lo que es, las sensaciones más bellas y el recordatorio de que nunca hemos sido

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Big changes in my life. At the beginning and for some years afterwards, I looked for my own space maybe out of revelry and sadness.  Now that time has gone by, years, I look for my space and that revelry and sadness are not there.  Today there is gratitude and I trust life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes The drama and suffering turn into a vicious circle, just as superficiality, feeling a victim of everything; the complaints and blame turn, also, into a vicious circle.  We conclude that relationships only to have ‘friends’ or people near you reduce considerably, because when we are deepening in truth, that naturally separates us.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I have dealt with this for 23 years and I still have the sensations that I cannot write about because I can’t explain them.  What is written is what I have been able to interpret along these 23 years. An experience like this one just does not conclude, only because, my body came back to life and opened its eyes to the world we are wandering in right now.  In the visions, there are things that can be explained in detail, sensations are far less explicable.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   En algún lugar dije:  Si me preguntas con detalle algo que hice a determinada hora hace dos días, no lo recuerdo. Han transcurrido 23 años de mi experiencia y aún pudiéramos hablar de ella, de esos precisos 38 minutos de hace 23 años.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I think there is something about it that permits us to transmit physical well-being to others.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of the experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    At the time of my comeback, full of impotence to go back there and among my tears I could not find the words to explain it to my husband.  I was trying to discern what just had happened to me and I said, ‘I went to heaven and saw everything that was there. I went there and saw things’.  His response was, ‘The only thing that matters is that you are okay’. I tried talking to him for several days but he was always in a hurry for work and he was not very interested.  I did not tell anybody, not even him for many years, almost twenty years later.  From then on, I kept it to myself; I was the only one who knew what was there.   After 22 years I shared it in a group on the internet.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew that is our reality, this, what we are living here, is not so real as I lived it in my experience because we are unlimited, free and our conscious is very defined. I felt the real being, happy, what we really are and all our abilities with an indescribable power.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As above

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   The moment when my mom was dying, I was talking to, her already ten years before, when I let her know that I knew she was back there when I went; and she was telling me the same thing ten years later.  We talked about the same thing only in a difference of ten years between us, again the same time but different visions respectively.  Again, I saw that time and space is not.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       God exists.  If you are conscious that you’re abandoning and leaving behind your body when leaving, then I know consciously that I continue to be me, even without my body. 

  There is clearly a sense of union, nothing or anyone is separate.  The liberty of being me, expanded, free as ever, protected and happy, in profound peace.  The greater love and it is not only saying the word love, feeling first of all what it is, feel the most wonderful sensations and remembering that we have never been abandoned.  Feel true love that protects you and to know I am accepted, I felt the tenderness with whom they watched me without caring for anything that had happened in my life before.  

  I felt humility, me in complete stillness before that greatness, true greatness that I was living. I would call it the greatness of a kingdom, as I said before.  Nevertheless it seems so humble.  After that, there is nothing in this world that can dazzle you or your ambition.  Material things in this world are not the objective you may like something and want it, but you won’t fight for it, you don’t suffer for it, before that, you just give it up.  When understanding what it is, material things just take their place, because you already know what is true, you enjoy them and are thankful, but know that things will pass. 

  I knew that because of what people had always said, it was almost for sure that God existed. Then on my own, and for other personal reasons, my interest poured over Jesus Christ in whom I trust and that I did not even see in my OBE. It was consistent with my belief, although I could not ever imagine what I was going to live and in what magnitude. In some place I said, ‘If you ask me the details of what I did two days ago, I can’t remember’.  23 years have passed since my experience and I still could talk about those precise 38 minutes 23 years ago.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Everything is fine, the questionnaire as well.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1teresa_p_nde.html