{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1teresa_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Teresa C NDE 4631  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\tNDE from pulmonary embolism.<\/span>\">","mylang":"de"}
          	        Teresa C NDE 4631  		  		  		  		  		NDE from pulmonary embolism.</span>">      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Teresa C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2343 Teresa C NDE 4631  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Prior to my NDE, I was in a terrible situation with a man that was extremely evil. There were days that when he wasn't at the house I would turn on my one Christian CD and get on my knees and cry out to God to help me change and to give me direction.

During the five years leading up to my NDE, I was doing things that I felt were killing me on the inside. In fact, I felt dead inside. I had decided to end that relationship and move back home to my family, after getting help with the withdrawal.

I admitted myself into St. Joseph Hospital in Marshfield, Wisconsin for medical help withdrawing from Vicodin. Almost immediately, as the doctor was going to inject some medication to start the withdrawal, I felt a rectangular pain form across my chest. For about a second I thought, wow does pneumonia show up this fast?? At that same moment, I said aloud, 'I can't breathe out.' Then, total blackness. I died. I have no recollection of what occurred in that room when I went unconscious.

All of the sudden I was surrounded by pure, bright, brilliant, Heaven white. It was white, but not earthly white. Seriously, there are no words that can explain the beauty of colors in Heaven.

I was in a cell. It was made of brown metal. I had a tan 'potato bag' on my body as a form of clothing. I had brown leather bands 'belts' around my neck, waist, wrists and ankles. I believe at first I was somewhat confused. There was love all around me. Much more love than a person can feel here on earth. One by one, those thick brown bands fell off. The door to the 'cell' opened. I walked out and fell to my knees. I couldn't look up. I knew it was Jesus. I was in the presence of the Lord.

It was at that time that we were telepathically communicating. I was asking and crying about things that happened to me from the beginning of my life for the most part. (Incest, emotional abuse, physical abuse, mental abuse, running away starting at about twelve years old to get away from all the abuse. Stranger raped at fourteen. Countless things happened to me, but this might give the reader an idea as to where I came from. Frankly, I believe I was living a hell on earth.) 

It was amazing and beautiful. My Savior answered, giving me knowledge and peace about every single thing that had happened to me. Everything. However, He didn't allow me to come back with all of that He revealed to me. What He did, is sent me back with peace in my spirit.

Bondages gone. I am a brand new person on the inside. I have been set completely free of my past. I truly believe that He knew I was on a one way ticket to hell, and because of me crying out to Him he answered my prayers!! That is how much He loves me.

I eventually awoke - I don't recall how long I was gone. I am planning on going to read my records to find out details.

I do remember when I woke up; I had scabs under my nose from oxygen. There was a nurse in there that acted surprised that I woke up. The first words she said was, 'You had quite a rough time. You were a very sick girl.'

There was an elderly woman that would come into my room and would sit and talk to me. She was a peaceful older woman that talked to me about God. I felt such peace when she was there. I have always wondered if she was real. Her name was Ruth. I'm going to ask about her when I go and read my records. She gave me a beautiful coin that I cherish to this day. It reads, 'This too shall pass.'

I did eventually leave the hospital, with what I believe a second chance on life. I felt like a brand new baby. Everything felt brand new. My insides were as clean as a whistle.

I had a few other experiences afterwards and if you are interested I would be glad to relate them to you if you call.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  January 2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Coincidental:  about 10 minutes after entering rehabilitation services at above hospital to get help with withdrawal symptoms of pain killers...at the moment the doctor attempted to administrate medication into my IV I had a pulmonary embolism and died.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) Pulmonary embolism  Acute pulmonary embolism.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was with Jesus. I felt more alive than I ever, ever felt on earth. I remember thinking, I wonder if we are in a sleepwalking awareness level on earth. Once again, I don't have the correct words to tell of the alert level - it's simply amazing.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time there. It felt that it went on for a very long beautiful time - but in reality, I have no idea.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The color 'white' - well, white. White - I just, I don't think there is a word for the 'bright white' in Heaven. Because it's Heaven. It's indescribable. Also, I felt extremely healthy.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The communication between my Savior and myself was all telepathic. I was shooting off questions about my childhood, and every bad thing that happened to me. The Lord was coming back with answers that I fully understood and was at complete and utter peace with what He was telling me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I was just 'all of a sudden there'.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was in the presence of Jesus.  #9 explains as to what I remember being communicated.  I couldn't look at Him. I was on my knees in a prayer position, but couldn't bring myself to look up because of the overwhelming beauty.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Yes, Yes, Yes.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       #11. I need to explain - I had a body that was absolutely perfect in every single way. I felt heavenly healthy. Not of this realm, I can assure you.  #12. I experienced emotions that I don't believe we can experience here on earth. The peace, serenity, warmth, safety - my emotions were not of this world. There is just no way possible that a person can feel that here on earth.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Didn't experience my past, but questioned many, many things that I couldn't get through here on earth that was keeping me in complete bondage - in depression, unforgiveness, full of rage, hate, sadness - everything the opposite of what Jesus wants us to be. All because of things that started to happen to me as a little girl up to when my NDE occurred.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'None: I was hoping there was a God, and I cried out to Him at times, not really believing that I was heard.  Went to church as a child but not as an adult.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't go to church all the time, but I keep a very personal relationship with Jesus. I cannot imagine a second of my life without Him in it. I panic if I think I have insulted Him in anyway.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'I don't claim to be in any specific denomination. I do claim to have a personal relationship with Jesus, the love of my life.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I don't go to church all the time, but I keep a very personal relationship with Jesus. I cannot imagine a second of my life without Him in it. I panic if I think I have insulted Him in anyway.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Jesus comforted me as to what it meant for me to go through what I had gone through all of my life. At the time this communication was happening, I was full of knowledge. However, I didn't come back with any of it. The only thing that I am aware of that He allowed me to remember was the 'peace,' and the feeling that it was all okay, and that I had never been alone - not for one second - that He had always been with me, and knew EVERYTHING that had happened to me. He explained every detail to me and gave me such peace.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Oh yes. I no longer judge anyone. I am very forgiving. I don't take anything personal. I purposely smile at someone if I think it will make their day better. I am way more loving to my family and people in general.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are absolutely no words that I am aware of that can give an accurate account of the 'colors, peace, euphoria, love, beauty, communication, knowledge, warmth, etc. I have come to realize that it is because it's Heaven.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     What is absolutely incredible to me, is that for years and years prior to my NDE I had certain 'experiences' with the paranormal. AFTER my NDE I haven't had NOT ONE incident of that nature. Not one.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Of course!! Everything about it. I will, as long as I live thank God for answering my prayers - before I really even knew He was real. I will never, ever get over how He took the time to do what He did for me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I believe I told my sister first, maybe a month after? Then I told my two daughters. All of their reactions were of complete awe. We still talk about it at times. I try to encourage my family and friends with what happened to me - that Jesus is truly, truly here with us, and hears us, and helps us.  Also, periodically, I will share my experience with someone, if I feel that it will help them in some way. I don't know if they are influenced or not. I guess for me, I tell them what happened and then they either believe me or not. For me it is factual. It did happen. I will share it, but I will not look to influencing anyone. It's not about me. I will always glorify my Lord as to what He did FOR me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I don't believe I ever even realized there was such a thing. If sometime in my past, it was mentioned, I don't remember it. What I do remember, is being fearful of death, prior to my NDE.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was life changing. I have not, and cannot go back to what I was before my NDE. Everything about me is different. I am more loving, more forgiving - just absolutely a different person. I am no longer the person I was before this happened. I was in complete awe. I felt brand new inside like a healing of well, not of this world. I was completely healed.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still view it as a privilege beyond anything I ever felt I deserved. I am so unbelievably in love with my Lord. He changed me. He changed my life. He gave me a second chance. He healed me completely.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Never. This was not caused by any drug, medications, nothing. This was the real deal. He is there. Heaven is real. I am actually sad and scared for those that don't believe. This is real. This is more real than life here on earth as we know it. If there is something that frustrates me, its scientists and doctors that try to explain away - I've seen them trying to do that - it really upsets me. I guarantee if a NDE happened to one of those people, they would do a 180-degree flip in a second flat. They would believe without a shadow of a doubt.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Well, I guess the only thing is to have a NDE is to have something traumatic occur in someone's life. For me, it was the absolute best thing that ever happened. I wish it could happen to everyone. If that was the case, this world would certainly be a better place to live.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1teresa_c_nde.html