{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1teresa_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Teresa M NDE 2843","mylang":"de"}
          	        Teresa M NDE 2843  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Teresa M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						974  Teresa M NDE  2843  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I ended up at St. Anne hospital for a bad headache bringing up one minute shivering the next sweating. It was night time when I got to the hospital and my own doctor was not there so another doctor looked after me. They did not take a blood sample or check my urine. They give me Demerol for pain that's it. Early next morning my husband came to the hospital and he was shocked when he saw the condition I was in. He summoned the nurse to get the doctor here now or he will transfer me himself to another hospital. Later I found out it only took ten minutes for the doctor to arrive at the hospital. It's a small town hospital. When the doctor arrived he ordered blood and urine tests. By that time, I had red patches all over me and I knew that I was deathly ill I was scared. Results came back very shortly. My doctor said that I'm very ill and full of infection.  My husband will have to sign a paper that he will be responsible for my trip to St. Boniface hospital in Winnipeg as my doctor thought I will not make the trip. But he also said that at this hospital I will surely die for they were not set up to be able to help me. Everything happened very fast after the papers were signed.

They put me in the ambulance and we were off. My husband followed the ambulance. He later told me he was crying so hard while driving he didn't know how he did it. I was losing consciousness in the ambulance but I thought hold on with all my strength. I felt I was slipping away fast. The next thing I noticed I was without pain. More alert my mind has never been clearer or more alive that at that moment. Then I noticed I was in what people call a tunnel.

At that time, I didn't know where I was. I was going down feet first so fast I can't even put it into words. I looked at myself I had the hospital gown on and it didn't even move. I got very scared because it was so black and I also noticed that it has rings around it like a vacuum hose. It still gives me shivers as I'm writing this. As a catholic, I thought I was going to hell for we are taught that hell is below us.

I didn't see or hear anyone but I did feel that I wasn't alone. Then I started speaking to God. I'll never forget it I said father do with me as you will I hand my life over to you. As soon as I said that, I was back in my body. How I can't say I just was. I looked at the person sitting with me and he was slapping my face calling my name. He said I thought we lost you. When we arrived at the hospital there was a whole bunch of doctors waiting for my arrival.

Well I'm here writing to whoever reads this. I know I was sent back to help many children for we are foster parents among other things. My life has changed a lot since my experience for the better. To be given another chance at life how many people can say that. I told a few people about my experience. Some believed me some not. That's okay, it's what I learned from it anyway that's important. When their time comes, they will know that there is so much more to life than just our earthly existence. I thank God so much for letting me come back and live according to his teachings. Mind you, I'm far from perfect even now but now I work a lot harder at being a better person. This is the true account of my experience. THANK-YOU my LORD. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 May 1993  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.   Illness        'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' I went in and out of consciousness for how long I'm not sure. This happened in the ambulance as i was transported to a larger hospital. I was critical.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   In daily life I think of what I have to do sometimes forgetting. In the tunnel, it's amazingly hard to explain but I'll try. In this life it's like were walking around half asleep. In the tunnel my mind was alert bright clear it can't compare it to my earthly mind.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While in the tunnel.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     I knew I was not in my body.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was very bright.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Clarity is unbelievable.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was very black kind of spinning around me as I was going straight down.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       What am I doing in this dark tube and where am I going?  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   I was raised as a catholic and it's my belief.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Of course it changed. I know for sure that God loves us and is there for us all the time.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Of course it changed. I know for sure that God loves us and is there for us all the time.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That there is life for sure beyond our earthly life. I'm very in tune with people's feelings and what they are going to say before they open there mouth.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   How black everything was and the speed. While this was happening, I looked at myself and the hospital gown didn't move an inch. I thought, 'How can this be?'  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Like I said earlier I can read minds.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        How fast I re-entered my body after I handed my life over to God.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me months. The reaction was good and not so good. Some people were influenced.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As real as I'm writing to you. I can't make someone believe my experience it was mine to learn from. People have choices to believe what they want. It's between me and God what happened. I was numb for a long time after it happened. I wanted to shout it out for people to wake up and to live right for sooner or later everyone will go through it.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Very real. And currently even more for my life is so blessed.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wish there would be a group I could join so as not to feel like this only happened to me. Now I know that many people went through this. But it would be so good to meet with other people like me.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1teresa_m_nde.html