{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tenna_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Tenna N NDE 337","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tenna N NDE 337  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tenna N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1364 Tenna N NDE 337  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The night before I attempted to take my life. I took a bunch of my mother's sleeping pills. I did not really want to kill myself, as I made the conscious decision not to wash them down with my mom's bottle of scotch. In the morning, my brother found me and told my mom that I didn't look right. Apparently, she tried to drag me to the car to take me to the hospital but couldn't manage my ninety-three pounds, so called the ambulance.

I remember a feeling of floating through the back of the paramedic as he was straddled over me. I watched him with great interest do mouth to mouth and CPR. As I watched this, I felt myself start to float away from the scene, but not too far, as I was very intrigued as I realized that was my physical body. I felt a voice/presence/force behind me telling me, not giving me a choice, that I had to 'go back', it wasn't my time. I never turned to look at the presence behind me, but also felt a very gentle nudge in the direction of my physical body. I didn't re-enter my body until my 'spirit' as it were, reluctantly agreed. Then I felt the pain of the person pushing on my chest. The next I remember was responding to the pain of the start of the intravenous needle in the ambulance.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  May of 1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt    Clinical death   I had CPR.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could only see my physical body lying on the floor with the paramedic over me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       See main narrative.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion, frustration, intrigue and interest, loved the serenity of the sensation of floating/hovering.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I definitely believed in NDE's as well as afterlife.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The presence that was 'behind' me. I never turned around to look at it; I just remember a voice, but it had no gender, just force, but a gentle force, not scary.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I was receptive to 'the other side' and had experienced 'seeing' spirits before this happened to me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I will always regret 'not turning around' to see/experience the presence 'behind' me that day! The best was the detached observation and floating sensation.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Positive responses.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tenna_n_nde.html