{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1teresa_m_nde_3060.html","mytitle":"Theresa M NDE 3060","mylang":"de"}
          	        Theresa M NDE 3060  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Theresa M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1102  Theresa M NDE  3060  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I gave birth to a daughter, my third child and my second cesarean. All my births have been high risk, including this one. During the surgery, I lost a lot of blood because I hemorrhaged. When I was in the room with my daughter, I let her nurse and started feeling really bad and I began to see faded black spots until I lost my sight altogether for a few moments. I then told my husband to talk with the nurse fast because I felt really bad. The nurse arrived and took my daughter from me.  She told me to completely relax my whole body and not to do anything at all because my vital signs were dropping at an alarming rate. They were dropping so much that the nurse told me not to close my eyes because I could fall asleep and immediately go into a coma. I followed all her instructions but I suddenly didn't feel my body or any pain at all.

I kept my eyes open, but there had been what I would describe as a separation of my spirit from my body because I saw my body from the ceiling of the room of the hospital. I saw, heard and felt such peace, an enormous and embracing serenity as if there was no force of gravity at that moment. I thought that people who die must feel as I felt. No wonder they didn't come back. And I felt so majestic that nothing worried me about my children, nor the newborn baby notwithstanding the great pleasure I took in having my first daughter. And although I love my mother and father so much, even though my father was still alive and I knew I had to continue working to help him financially in his illness, I didn't feel worried, only enormous peace. Nor did I feel guilty for anything. It was something inexplicable.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    April 3, 2004

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related  'fue por cirugia de cesaria y perdi mucha sangre, entonces mis signos vitales comenzaron a decender demasiado que la enfermera dijo, que no cerrara los ojos, porque podria caer en estado de coma.'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' 'tuve una niña,por cesarea y perdi mucha sangre en la cirujia hubo emorragia.'.  I went through a very serious medical crisis.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I was physically conscious the whole time. It's just that my vital signs were failing when I had my experience. I was even conscious when I was outside my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was physically conscious the whole time. It's just that my vital signs were failing when I had my experience. I was even conscious when I was outside my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I don't know how much time transpired in that state, but I was conscious.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    My vision was normal but seeing things from the ceiling. My sense of hearing, too. My thoughts were more rapid and I could think many things within a few seconds.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I don't understand the question.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      A peace I had never experienced before. Profound serenity. I also felt very comforted, something lovely, the most beautiful thing that has ever happened to me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I began to forgive everybody who harmed me or who felt hatred towards others because I had the impulse to read some books and to learn. After the experience, I had the impression that something great would happen but I only felt very peaceful because of my forgiveness of others. I told my mother that something monumental was going to transpire but I didn't know what, whether in the world of to me personally. And sure enough, something very positive happened to me.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   no tenia fe ninguna

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I don't believe in Catholic fundamentalism. I don't agree with that. But my faith is enormous.

What is your religion now?      Liberal   'la fe hoy en dia es inmensamente grande y no creo en un regimen de religion pero la fe por Dios, Espiritu santo y sr.Jesus es la mas grande de el mundo.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I don't believe in Catholic fundamentalism. I don't agree with that. But my faith is enormous.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had the urge to get closer to God and to study books where I could find peace etc.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I think so, with me and with my husband.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Everything is unbelievable, and what I experienced at that time is inexplicable.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Only that at times I can feel the pain of others without even knowing them, only by seeing them, but I don't know how to help. And sometimes I have clairvoyance and premonitions. This is involuntary, not voluntary. At times, I can see or feel the hatred of others, and sadness too, that accompanies some people.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       This peace that I felt was the greatest of my life. Afterwards I began seeking it and I found it, but it's still a bit dense, not as great as the NDE.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Since nobody believes me they get flummoxed, not knowing what to say.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     At first I kept quiet and only meditated alone on what had happened to me. Afterwards I began talking about it even though they adjudged me crazy.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Today I see my experience as very real. I can never forget it. I believe it was something necessary.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No, but if you have questions you can contact me.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I think everything was fine. Thanks!

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1teresa_m_nde_3060.html