{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tammy_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Tammy R NDE 3546","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tammy R NDE 3546  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tammy R NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1585 Tammy R NDE 3546  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I know it's hard to believe at three years old going on four. I can remember this but I was in a severe car accident and next thing I know I'm going down this beautiful 'Golden Tunnel' at it felt like a hundred mph. Then I came to a sudden stop and this beautiful 'Golden Light.' That is when God spoke to me and told me my life would not be easy but he would always be there for me and send many angels.

At sixteen years old the same thing happened but I remember no words were ever spoken, I just knew. He told me I'm not ready and he's sending me back and not to ever try to take my life again - that is his decision to make and not mine. He also told me how much my parents love me and to stop being selfish but I wanted to stay so bad.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1976 and 1989

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentSuicide attemptDirect head injury  The one in 1976 when I was 3 was from a severe car accident that split my head open and had to get plastic surgery at 16 the other was suicide attempt  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   First experience severe car accident.  Second experience suicide overdose.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I'm not sure what that means, this needs to be explained because I do have head trauma and get confused sometimes.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Well it was a Golden Light.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Well there wasn't any words, it was I guess telepathic.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A Golden Light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I would have to say this was another dimension I have yet seen one like it

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very loved, very relaxed and very healed and happy and everything that is good.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Not at the time but the past two years I have been seeing very disturbing images of the future. I don't want to talk about it but did give my parents a map of where these things will take place - but it is very important to know that Mother Nature doesn't get mad she gets even. Some of these disasters are natural some made by man but most important God does exist and people have to pray more and all religions have to learn from one another. To help these people when they have nowhere to live and you will see soon this will happen. People have no respect for each other and we will have to reap what they have sown. Though it is not fair, I can't argue with God he will always win. A Native American once said before man kills the last tree and kills the last fish, it is then he will realize YOU CANNOT EAT MONEY!

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I was only 3 and a 1/2 but at 16 Roman Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe that we are all one and all connected and there is so much truth in all religions. We can all learn from each other and I call myself a Roman Catholic Mystic because I believe in communicating with spirits. There is reincarnation, to me there is a Satan and there is a Hell. Now I've had people try to say there isn't but first one must prove it to me and we need to stop bashing someone because they do not believe like we do or think like we do. That is what causes wars - not Religions.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic Mystic I dont know what the tops means I have always hated stereotypes

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe that we are all one and all connected and there is so much truth in all religions. We can all learn from each other and I call myself a Roman Catholic Mystic because I believe in communicating with spirits. There is reincarnation, to me there is a Satan and there is a Hell. Now I've had people try to say there isn't but first one must prove it to me and we need to stop bashing someone because they do not believe like we do or think like we do. That is what causes wars - not Religions.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   It is a feeling when you are before this presence.  You know how important it is to love and just how powerful love is, how much God loves us, and you just know you have got to be a better person every day.  I know how important it is to love the earth and God's creatures and our fellow man because that is exactly what God does.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am a hermit by nature just me and my mate, no friends, don't like to go out of the house so a real hermit.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just how beautiful this 'Golden Light' was I mean I couldn't even draw it if I could and the power of it I can even describe.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I only told my mom, dad, and my mate. There's a woman named Angel Lady from Lily Dale who just knew and I never told her. That's when I really started thinking more about this. I mean I always think of it sometimes it's as though I'm in a trance and keep in mind I am not a fake - never wrote a book - don't speak of my visions. In my dreams, this is very personal between The Creator and me and it has never been about profit. If someone else does fine but that's not my style and it's very personal to me but very beautiful.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     In 1977 I never thought about it until I was about ten years old and everything God said happened. I had to learn to walk and talk all over again, I had no friends, had to go to speech classes, and was in learning disability classes. Kids would hit books on my head so my parents wanted to send me to another school but we decided it would be best if I quit. It took my two years to study for my G.E.D. but God and I did it. But my health has gotten worse but I have total trust in God and he gave me a beautiful home and we rescue homeless animals. Dad got me a house close to him so I'm not rich but money means nothing to me. Money is something one has to respect and I think we as Americans do not know how to do that. My sister is a nurse married to a businessman and they are all about money. The four hundred dollars a month they pay on their little SUV could feed starving children or help homeless people.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I think this happened to just let me know just like he said God would always be there for me and there really are angels. I'm glad this happened because I have no fear of death. In fact this may sound sick but I cannot wait and I pray three to four hours a day pray this next even isn't going to happen - let's just say a very, very intense war and pray this isn't going to happen. Patricia also helped me with a spirit I was being haunted by but now I'm haunted all the time and help them cross over. It is so important to FORGIVE and sometimes a spirit needs to feel that and I don't use the white light of unconditional love I use 'The Golden Light'. I saw spirits when I was younger but now I don't see them but can feel when they are around. I cannot wear watches because the battery goes dead and everything you said is true. I have no fear of death. I have no regard for material wealth, which is why I probably made no money off my experience and God knows I can. I can't have noise around me because it drives me nuts. I'm very light sensitive but that could be because of my psoriasis which is a skin disorder and it is difficult to talk about it because you worry about what people might say or think and it is personal.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I don't know.  All I know is after I took 200 Tylenol. My sister found me and said I was speaking in tongues and doctors did call me a miracle now maybe yes the second time but not the first time.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Nothing really except I cannot wait to go back but it's my path and I have to walk it so I keep my path nice and bright so I can be there again and wish everyone had the experience I had.  During the second experience he told me I am not ready, but I felt God was very angry at what I had done but I only wanted to get back so I tried to kill myself because it's so peaceful and such love you feel and it's difficult to explain - a light you have never seen or can describe.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tammy_r_nde.html