{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tammy_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Tammy L NDE 170","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tammy L NDE 170  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Tammy L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						610  Tammy L NDE  170  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I'm not sure if this is a near death experience or not. However, it is very strange and I'll just let you be the judge. In 1995, I was in labor with my son. I was in my hospital room. My husband and a nurse were with me. I suddenly became very ill. I was hot and cold, and clammy all at the same time. I felt a lot of pain, though it wasn't contractions. I hurt everywhere. I became very nauseous. I felt so strange. I actually thought I was dying. I told my nurse that something was wrong. I remember her practically on top of me telling me to look at her and to breathe. I tried, but I felt so sick. I said, ‘I can't’, and then there was total darkness.


Suddenly I was enveloped in a bright, white light. I felt ‘perfectness’. It was the perfect temperature. The light was bright but it was not hot on my skin like sunlight, nor did it hurt my eyes. I was very aware of the transition from pain to feeling wonderful. I felt peace, great love, joy. It seemed all my questions were answered. It's hard to describe the feeling of total utopia. I then realized that the light seemed to be shining through walls of brick glass windows. I heard laughter and looked down to see a little child smiling up at me. The little girl seemed to be about four years old. She had dark hair in a pageboy style and the most beautiful eyes I have ever seen. She didn't speak, but she seemed to convey the message that all was well and that she loved me.


I was suddenly back in my hospital bed. I heard my husband asking the nurse what had happened and she said that my blood pressure had completely bottomed out. I had my son later that day and everything was fine. I began trying to find out what I had experienced. I read a book about NDE that mentioned that experiencers have sometimes seen their future children during an NDE. I found the book they referred to. There were some stories somewhat similar to mine. I have had two more sons since my experience. I have longed for the child I saw. I feel that she was meant to come to me. However, as I have a total of six sons and three daughters, my husband is unwilling. It's been seven years since I had the experience and I'm still seeking answers.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    9/5/1995

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Childbirth    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening My blood pressure was gone momentarily.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      My body was unconscious. But I was very conscious and alert during this experience.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It seemed like I was in this place a while, but I couldn't have been. I could have stayed there forever.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just a child's laughter.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     A little girl. It seemed brick glass walls (through which light was streaming) surrounded us. I don't think I knew her. She seemed to convey that all was well, and, perhaps, that we would meet again.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was a brilliant, bright, white light. It was encompassing and caressing. It was not hot on my skin as sunlight is, nor did it hurt my eyes. It was the perfect temperature.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was definitely somewhere other than my hospital room. I remember the light and the brick glass windows.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace, emotional wellbeing, the greatest love, utopia, wonderment, joy. I cannot find the words to adequately describe it. No matter how hard I try, I'm never satisfied with my description.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I think the little girl might possibly be a soul I've yet to meet on earth. I need some assistance figuring this one out. I feel strongly this is a child I'm meant to have, but considering my husband's reluctance, it may not come about.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Uncertain     I think the brick glass windows may have been a boundary.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I'm sure I didn't want to leave that place, but I accepted it.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I had always been a little afraid of dying and felt that the separation from my children would be unbearable. I know now that there is nothing to dread.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The feeling of ‘perfectness’ was so wonderful that I don't think it can be described with mere words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was knowing, the worst part was not being taken seriously.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I don't think the few I have told understood.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      It was by far the most wondrous happening of my life. When I get discouraged, I remind myself of what I have to look forward to.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tammy_l_nde.html