{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tara_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Tara V NDE 3907","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tara V NDE 3907  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tara V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1851 Tara V NDE 3907  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I fell off the back of a motorcycle because the man I was dating at the time hit the car in front of him. I rolled a bit, looked behind me, and saw a bumper heading right for me. I had nowhere to go; it was in an instant. I felt the crunch of my bones or body. In an instant I did not know who or what I was or where.

It was as if I was moving very fast and pictures where flashing in front of me one after another and so on. It was confusing. All of a sudden, I saw the brightest light but I don't remember seeing clearly just actual beings almost on another side. I felt this complete happiness and feeling of just everything was lifted and I was to go. I could hear people telling me I must go back. I think it could have been my grandfather. I didn't want to go back or even understand why I was supposed to go. The feeling was euphoric. All of a sudden, it was like I came out and popped out of a very bright bubble.

As soon as I came back, I knew I would be okay but I could not talk or move yet. My body was in shock. As soon as I could talk, I felt my fingers and toes and I wasn't paralyzed. I was so thankful. I felt completely protected and at ease - almost like I knew. I remember the entire experience. The most incredible of all is this woman came to me and held my hand and stayed with me the entire time until the paramedics started to treat me. Later people who were witnesses said that she was not there. It was unreal. I felt like she was an angel. The amazing thing was the guy I was dating said she was by his side too at the same time. That was validation for me. We both saw her, both, no one else did. It was an incredible experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  02/07/2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I fell off a motorcycle and was run over by a car. People had to carry the car off of my body because I was stuck underneath.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I woke up. I knew what had happened and I felt protected.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no space and time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was like it was cloudy and amazing bright but you could look right into it. Not the same as the sun.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was different than here and now. Hard to explain.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a tunnel but I do not know the size.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I did not touch them. It was like they were on the other side. I wanted to go to them but they would not let me. They told me to go back.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very bright and comfortable and inviting. Drawing me to it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Dimensions yes I assume the other side

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confused, Happiness, Euphoria, Love, Understanding, Awareness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was like pictures where flashing but so fast like I was aware of it and it was familiar but I did not stop and look at a particular time or place. I could not stop the flashing.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I believe in Spirituality

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I definitely felt touched by God.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The feelings are hard to communicate and the speed at which everything happened was very fast. A lot happened while I was experiencing my NDE but I only stopped breathing for a few minutes.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I felt loved and safe and free from all guilt or past feelings. I knew my family and God was still with me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Pretty much as soon as I was in the hospital room.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt like my spiritual awareness was heightened and that I felt like I was protected. I felt very psychic. I was here for a reason.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I feel that I was unhappy with life and living off my path. I have always been spiritual and a bit psychic or vibrational. I knew I was going away from what I was here to do and God needed to remind me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I felt the need to help others even more. I touched a lot of people sharing my story with them.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tara_v_nde.html