{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tara_nde.html","mytitle":"Tara NDE 140","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tara NDE 140  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Tara NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						575  Tara NDE  140  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 When I was 7 years old, I went to a beach with a friend. We decided to climb a cliff. We were up about 20 meters when I became stuck.


My friend went around the cliff face to tell her mother.


My hands began to slip and my legs shook uncontrollably. My fingers slipped off the rocks and I began to fall backwards.


As I was falling, I opened my eyes to see that I was upside down and that I seemed to be looking out of a tunnel. I couldn't hear or feel anything. I had opened my eyes 2 times on the way down and I was still upside down. I still couldn't hear or feel anything. I was conscious to the fact that I was bouncing and hitting the cliff. I remember thinking it was taking a long time to get to the bottom. Everything was in slow motion, but at no point was I scared.


I wasn't aware of landing, but I opened my eyes to find I was laying on the ground with my head tilted back. I still couldn't feel or hear, but I saw a lady standing a couple of meters away from me. This lady was white. She had a long white see-through dress with long white hair. She seemed to glow. I was wondering why she wasn't helping me. She just stood there and smiled at me. I thought I must have been dead. That's why she wouldn't help me. When I decided to ask her for help, she seemed to read my mind. I was asking, but I wasn't saying it out loud; I just seemed to think it. I asked her to help me, but she just stood there. I kept asking. The more I asked, the more she wouldn't help, the more I became distressed. I had asked her approximately 3 or 4 times. On the last time I asked, she replied, ‘You're all right,’ and smiled. I said, ‘No, I'm not,’ as she smiled and went away.


I closed my eyes, then my senses started coming back. I could now feel and hear. I started screaming, when my friend’s mother came. I asked if I was dead. The obvious answer was ‘No’. I told her the lady wouldn't help me. She asked ‘What lady?’ I said the white lady, but there was nobody around.


As I was lifted to my feet, the only injuries I had were grazes to my legs. When we looked up the cliff face, I should have been dead or seriously injured.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1977

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death I fell off a 20 meter high cliff.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  Maybe, but I didn't see myself falling; however, I knew I was, but wasn't experiencing the fall.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Not sure. I could see but not hear or feel.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I wasn't aware of the length of time it was taking to fall, only that it was taking a long time to get there.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I couldn't hear anything.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     As I opened my eyes to see that I was falling, I could see people on the beach upside down, but it appeared to be as if I was looking out of a tunnel.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     Only my guardian angel after the event.

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   Only the light of the world outside of where I was looking from.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Complete calmness whilst falling. Whilst seeing my vision (guardian angel), I was confused to why she wasn't helping me.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Only that my guardian angel told me I would be all right.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Not at the time, but I definitely do now.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   I wasn't sure at the time what had happened. I was too young.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I have had many ADCs from an early age, but I'm not sure when they started.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was that I was spared the pain and fright of the fall and the worst is that I was too young to realize who this person really was.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Everybody that I have shared my experience with haven't said much, but do look at me strangely. I have recently shared my experience on another website and had a positive feedback. I know in my heart and mind what I saw and what I experienced was true to me and that's all that matters.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      The experience of talking to people who have already crossed over. I've heard of many experiences where they have been given messages or were told something.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tara_nde.html