{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tanya_nde.html","mytitle":"Tanya NDE 5295","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tanya NDE 5295  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tanya NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2781 Tanya NDE 5295  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was visiting a friend in Lompoc, California. As I was sweeping her kitchen, a fire extinguisher was knocked down and fell on my foot. She took me to the emergency room to see if my foot was broken. When I got to the ER, the doctor took x-rays, and the nurse gave me medicine for the pain. I have asthma, and the pain in my foot made me have an asthma attack, so the nurse also gave me a breathing treatment. After the breathing treatment, I was still having difficulty breathing. However, the nurse and doctor left me alone while we waited for the results of the x-rays. My breathing got worse, and I felt my throat closing up. I could hardly get air into my lungs. I pushed the call button for the nurse, and all she told me was, ‘Relax, and take deep breaths’. She said I was only having trouble breathing because I was anxious about the pain, and that the key was to relax. I could feel there was more going on than that, but she left the room, and I began to panic because I could still hardly get any air into my lungs. I needed to talk to someone who would listen to me, but I couldn't call out for anyone, since I could hardly breathe. When I tried to get up to go find someone, I fell onto the floor of my hospital room in a panic. I kept struggling to get air into my lungs, but I could not. I clawed at my throat. 

Suddenly, I felt my body relax completely. Surrounded by darkness, I heard beautiful, gothic-type music, like angels singing. I felt myself floating – completely at peace – so happy! 

When I woke up hours later, I was in the ICU and had a breathing tube down my throat. The doctor said that when they had found me, I had stopped breathing, and that they did not know how long I had been unconscious.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'July 14,2006'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Right before I stopped breathing. I remember telling myself in my mind to stop fighting the lack of oxygen and to give up. I heard the music when I stopped fighting to get air in my lungs. I noticed the blackness, and I felt extreme peace and contentment.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed like time stood still. When I woke up in the ICU, it was many hours later – but to me it felt like a matter of seconds.&#8232;

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was clear – and I usually have poor vision.&#8232;

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard music, and it was loud – like I was in the front row at a concert – but it was also beautiful and soothing.&#8232;

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   I was surrounded by darkness, but it was peaceful nonetheless.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt peaceful and extremely happy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt that I was about to go somewhere safe. I did not see the darkness as an ominous sign. I think the darkness was there because it was not my time, and I needed to go back. I believe I would have seen the light if it had been my time.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Now I can tell who is on the phone before it rings, and I can tell when someone is going to knock on the door before they knock.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        This experience changed my life. I woke up in awe, and it changed my outlook on life. When I woke up, I wanted to go right back there! No, I did not become suicidal, but I felt I could not wait to go back to that place. I have always been terrified about death. Now I am excited about it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Right away, I saw the experience as ‘definitely real’. I may have joked about it to friends, but I knew it was definitely real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still see it as 'definitely real'. It was real – because I still feel the peace, and I am still excited about death.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was an extremely positive experience that changed my life. I had always been terrified to die. Now I know it will not be the end, but the beginning of something new.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The questionnaire was wonderful!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tanya_nde.html