{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 4346 5719 9469","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v2_30_june_1884.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V2 June 20 1884","mylang":"de"}
June 30, 1884.] Profe88or Balfour Stewart'8 Addre88. 18';"
v.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
June 30, 1884.
The ninth General Meeting of the Society was held at the Garden
Mansion, Queen Anne's Mansion, S.W., on Monday, June 30,1884.
PROFESSOR BALFOUR STEWART, F.R.S., VICE-PRESIDENT, IN THE CHAm.
The following address was delivered by the Chairman :-
Residing as I do at Manchester, I cannot refrain from adverting to the
loss which our Society has suffered in the death of Dr. Angus Smith.
It has never been my lot to meet with a man of greater simplicity and
purity of character, or of greater love for truth. Whilst we all deeply
mourn his loss, it is a source of satisfaction to think that the name of
()ne so emment in many ways should be found on the roll of our
Society. It is likewise cause for much satisfaction that men of science
of undisputed eminence have recently consented to join our ranks.
And I have been much gratified by the unanimous verdict of scientific
(landour and honesty which a perusal of our memoirs has called forth
from men who are, nevertheless, not disposed to join us at present.
Being myself engaged in physical science I should like to make a
single remark on that part of our programme which refers to the pro-
duction of peculiar physical phenomena. I know that the investiga-
tions in this direction, upon which several members of this Society are
engaged, have not yet been developed sufficiently to be brought before
us for discussion; but my remark is of a general nature, and can in no
way prejudice that which is now going on.
Those who have discussed the subject of what I will call Free-will,
may be divided into two classes or schools.
First. The Materialistic, embracing those who believe that aU acts
of will, all desires and aspirations of the Ego, are the results of certain
material transformations in the brain, which transformations take place
according to ordinarily-understood physical laws.
Secondly. The Spiritualistic schools, or those who believe that some·
thing in the Ego is theoretically, as well as practically, above ordinary
mat.ter, and is the cause rather than the effect of certain changes in the
brain.
Digitized by Coogle
188 Professor Balfour Stewart's A.ddres8. [June 30,.
It is rather of the Spiritualistic school, as above defined, that I would
now speak. I cannot, ·of course, tell how this school will view evidence
tending to prove a peculiar action of mind upon matter, but I think I
can tell how they ought to view it. Believing as they do that something in.
the Ego is theoretically as well as practically above matter, they must
believe that to a· greater or less extent the usually-received physical
axioms are broken by it. That is to Sll-y, they have been driven, it may
be by ethical and metaphysical views, into an assertion with reference to-
Physics which they nevertheless believe to be quite unsupported by
physical evidence. Surely then they ought above all others to welcome
observations tending to show that there may possibly be an action of
mind over matter in other regions than that of the brain.
For my own part, while I do not dispute the truth of the positioH
held by the advocates of what I call Free-will, I yet acknowledge thp.
difficulty of its being held permanently as a single isolated exception,
incapable of verification. Exceptions are not dead units, but have a
family life of their own, with their own peculiar traditions and places
of resort; and just as the naturalist, who has got hold of a unique
beetle, goes next day to the same hunting-ground in the hope that he-
may obtain its fellow, so-I am prepared to maintain-should the investi-
gator who thinks he has discovered, no matter how, an undoubted
exception, explore the most likely places for its fellow, which, if there
be truth in his position, he is almost certain sooner or later to secure.
1884.] Experiment8 in Thought-Transference. 189
VI.
AN ACCOUNT OF SOME EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-
TRANSFERENCE.
By OLIVER J. LoDGE, D.Se.,
Professor of Physics in University College, Liverpool.
Members of the Society for Psychical Research are all perfectly
aware of the experiments in Thought-transference which have been origi-
nated and carried out by Mr. Malcolm Guthrie, in Liverpool.
Perhaps it may not be considered impertinent, since it bears on the
question of responsibilityand genuineness,if I state that Mr.Guthrie holds
an important position in Liverpool, being a Justice of the Peace, and
an active member of the governing bodies of several public institutions,
among others of the new University College; that he is a severe student
of philosophy, and the author of several works bearing on the particular
doctrines of Mr. Herbert Spencer. I may also say that he is a-relative
of Professor Frederick Guthrie, and that he has exhibited in this ex-
perimental research such care and systematic vigilance as might perhaps
have been expected on Mr. Francis Galton's principles, and such as
would, if properly directed, have placed him in a high rank of experi-
mental philosophers. I may also remind you of what he himself has
here said, viz., that he is a partner in the chief drapery establishment in
Liverpool, and that it is among the employes of that large business that
the two percipients hereafter referred to were accidentally discovered.
Let it be understood that the experiments are Mr. Guthrie's, and
that my connection with them is simply this :-that after Mr. Guthrie
had laboriously carried out a long series of experiments and had pub-
lished many of his results, he set about endeavouring to convince
such students of science as he could lay his hands upon in Liverpool;
and with this object he appealed to me, among others, to come and wit-
ness, and within limits modify, the experiments in such a way as would
satisfy me of their genuineness and perfect good faith.
Yielding to his entreaty I consented, and have been, I suppose, at
some dozen sittings; at first simply looking on so as to grasp the pheno-
mena, but afterwards taking charge of the experiments-Mr. Guthrie
himself often not being present, though he was always within call in
another room, ready to give advice and assista.nce when desired.
p
Digitized by Loo
190 Expe1-iments in Thought-Transference. [June 30,
In this way I had every opportunity of examining and varying the
minute conditions of the phenomena so as to satisfy myself of their
genuine and objective character, in the same way as one is accus-
tomed to satisfy oneself as to the truth and genuineness of any ordinary
physical fact.
I did not feel at liberty to modify the experiments very largely, in
other words to try essentially new ones, because that would have been
interfering with Mr. Guthrie's prerogative. I only regarded it as my
business to satisfy myself as to the genuineness and authenticity of the
phenomena already described by Mr. Guthrie. If I had merely
witnessed facts asa passive spectator I should most certainly not
publicly report upon them. So long as one is bound to accept
• imposed conditions and merely witness what goes on, I have no
ICOnfidence in my own penetration, and &Ill perfectly sure that a conjurer
could impose on me, possibly even to the extent of making me think
that he was not imposing on me; but when one has the control of the
circumstances, can change them at will and arrange one's own experi-
ments, one gradually acquires a belief in the phenomena observed
quite com~rable to that induced by the repetition of ordinary physical
experiments.
It is only on these grounds that I have been asked to report pro-
gress to-night, and it is only on these grounds that I have consented.
After this long preamble you may be disappointed to hear that I
have no striking or new phenomenon to report, but only a few more
experiments in the simplest and most elementary form of what is called
Thought-transference; though certainly what I have to describe falls
under the head of "Thought-transference" proper, and is not explicable
by the merely mechanical transfer of impressions, exhibited before large
,audiences, signalised by sensational articles in the daily Press, and
more properly described as muscle-reading.
In using the term "Thought-transference," I would ask to be under-
stood as' doing so for convenience, because the observed facts can
.conveniently be grouped under such a title; but I would not be
understood as implying that I hold any theory on the subject. It is a
most dangerous thing to attempt to convey a theory by a. phrase, and,
probably, if I held any theory on the subject, I should be more guarded
in my language, and should require many words to set it forth.
As it is, the phrase describes correctly enough what appears to take
place, viz., that one person may, under favourable conditions, receive a
faint impression of a. thing which is strongly present in the mind, or
thought, or sight, or sensorium of another person not in contact, and
may be able to describe or draw it more or less correctly. But
how the transfer takes place, or whether there is any transfer at
all, or what is the physical reality underlying the terms "mind,"
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Ezperiments in Thought-Transference. 191
"consciousness," "impression," and the like; and whether this thing
we call mind is located in the person, or in the space round him, or in
hoth, or neither; whether indeed the term location, as applied to mind,
is utter nonsense and simply meaningless,---conceming all these things
I am absolutely blank, and have no hypothesis whatsoever. I may,
however, be permitted to iluggest a rough and crude analogy. That
the brain is the organ of consciousness is patent, but that consciousness
is located in the brain is what no psychologist ought to assert; for just
as the energy of an electric charge, though apparently on the conductor,
is not on the conductor, but in all the space round it; just as the
energy of an electric current, though apparently in the copper wire, is
certainly not all in the copper wire, and possibly not any of it; so it
m~y be that the sensory consciousness of a person, though apparently
located in his brain, may be conceived of as also existing like a faint
echo in space, or in other brains, though these are ordinarily too busy
and pre-occupied to notice it.
The experiments which I have witnessed proceed in this sort
of way. One person is told to keep in a perfectly passive condition,
with a mind as vacant as possible; and to assist this condition the
organs of sense are unexcited, the eyes being bandaged and silence
maintained. It might be as well to shut out even the ordinary street
hum by plugging the ears, but as a matter of fact this was not done.
A person thus kept passive is "the percipient." In the experiments
I witnessed the percipient was a young lady, one or other of two who
had been accidentally found to possess the necessary power. Whether it
is a common power or not I do not know. So far as I am aware very
few persons have been tried. I myself tried, but failed abjectly. It
was easy enough to picture things to oneself, but they did not appear
to be impressed on me from without, nor did any of them bear the least
resemblance to the object in the agent's mind. [For instance, I said a.
pair of scissors instead of the five of diamonds, and things like that.]
Nevertheless, the person acting as percipient is in a perfectly ordinary
condition, and can in no sense be said to be in a hypnotic state, unless
this term be extended to include the emptiness of mind produced by
blindfolding and silence. To all appearance a person in a brown study
is far more hypnotised than the percipients I saw, who usually
unbandaged their own eyes and chatted between successive ex-
periments.
Another person sitting near the percipient, sometimes at first holding
her hands but usually and ordinarilywithout any contact at all but with
a distinct intervening distance, was told to think hard of a particular
object, either a name, or a scene, or a thing, or of an object or drawing
set up in a good light and in a convenient position for staring at. This
person is " the agent" and has, on the whole, the hardest time of it.
Digitized byeJogle
192 Ezperimeni8 in Tkougkt.Traniference. [June 30,
It is a most tiring and tiresome thing to stare at a letter, or a triangle,
or a donkey, or a teaspoon, and to think of nothing else for the space of
two or three minutes. ""Whether the term " thinking " can properly be
applied to such barbarous concentration of mind as this I am not sure ;
but I can answer for it thail if difficulty is an important element in the
definition of "thinking," then it is difficult enough in all conscience.
Very frequently more than one agent is employed, and when two or
three people are in the room they are all told to think of the object
more or less strenuously; the idea being that wandering thoughts in
the neighbourhood certainly cannot help, and may possibly hinder, the
clear transfer of impression. As regards the question whether when
several agents are thinking, only one is doing the work, or whether all
really produce some effect, I have made a special experiment, which
leads me to conclude that more than one agent can be active at the same
time. We conjecture that several agents are probably more powerful
than one, but that a confusedness of impression may sometimes be pro-
duced by different agents attending to different parts or aspects of the
object : this, however, is mere conjecture.
Most people seem able to act as agents, though some appear to do
better than others. I can hardly say whether I am much good at it or
not. I have not often tried alone, and in the majority of cases when I
have tried I have failed; on the other hand, I have once or twice ap-
parently succeeded. We have many times succeeded with agents quite
disconnected from the percipient in ordinary life and sometimes com-
plete strangers to them. Mr. Birchall, the headmaster of the Birkdale
Industrial School, frequently acted ; and the house physician at the Eye
and Ear Hospital, Dr. Shears, had a successful experiment, acting alone,
on his first and only visit. All suspicion of a pl'EHl.l'l'aDged code is thus
rendered im~ossible even to outsiders who are unable to witness the
obvious fairness of all the experiments.
The object looked at by the agent is placed usually on a small black
opaque wooden screen between the percipient and agents, but sometimes
it is put on a larger screen behind the percipient. The objects were
kept in an adjoining room and 'were selected and brought in by me,
with all due precaution, after the percipient was blindfolded. I
should say, however, that no reliance was placed on, or care taken in,
the bandaging. It was merely done because the percipient preferred it
to merely shutting the eyes. Mter recent experiments on blindfolding
by members of the Society, I certainly would not rely on any form of
bandaging; the opacity of the wooden screen on which the object was
placed was the thing really depended on, and it was noticed that no
mirrors or indistinct reflectors were present. The only surface at all
suspicious was the polished top of the small table on which the opaque
screen usually stood. But as the screen sloped backwards at a.
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] E~eriment8 in Thougllt-T,.all8/erence. 193
slight angle, it was impossible for the object on it to be thus mirrored.
Moreover, sometimes I covered the table with paper, and very often it
was not used at all, but the object was placed on a screen or a settee
behind the percipient; and one very striking success was obtained with
the object placed on a large drawing board, loosely swathed in a black
silk college gown, and with the percipient immediately behind the said
drawing board, and almost hidden by it.
As regards collusion and trickery, no one who has witnessed the
absolutely genuine and artless manner in which the impressions are
described, but has been perfectly convinced of the transparent
honesty of purpose of all concerned. This, however, is not
evidence to persons who have not been present, and to them I can only
say that to the best of my scientific belief no collusion or trickery
was possible under the varied circumstances of the experiments•
.A very interesting question presents itself as to what is really trans-
mitted, whether it is the idea or name of the object or whether it is
the visual impression. To examine this I frequently drew things with-
out any name-perfectly irregular drawings. I am bound to say that
these irregular and unnameable productions have always been rather
difficult, though they have at times been imitated fairly well; but it is
not at all strange that a faint impression of an unknown object should be
harder to grasp and reproduce than a faint impression of a familiar one,
such as a letter, a common name, a teapot, or a pair of scissors. More-
over, in some very interesting cases the idea or name of the object was
certainly the thing transferred, and not the visual impression at all;
this specially happened with one of the two percipients; and, therefore,
prol>ably in every case the fact of the object having a name would
assist any faint impression of its appearance which might be received.
.As to aspect, i.e., inversion or perversion, so far as my experience
goes it seems perfectly accidental whether the object will be drawn by
the percipient in its actual position or in the inverted or perverted posi-
tion. This is very curious if true, and would certainly not have been
expected by me. Horizontal objects are never described as vertical,
nor 'Vice 'VerB!!; and slanting objects are usually drawn with the right
amount of slant.
In proceeding to the details of the actual experiments, itwould take
far too long to recount the whole-failures as well as successes ; I shall
only describe a few from which a more or less obvious moral may be
drawn.
The two percipients are Miss R. and Miss E. Miss R. is the more
prosaic, staid, and self-contained personage, and she it is who gets the
best quasi-visual impression. but she is a bad drawer, and does not
reproduce it very well.
Miss E. is, I should judge, of a more sensitive temperament, seldom
Digitized by Coogle
~ I
194 E:eperiment8 in Thought-Traniference. [June 30,
being able to preserve a strict silence for instance, and she it is who
more frequently jumps to the idea or name of the object without being
able so frequently to "see" it.
I was anxious to try both percipients at once so as to compare their
impressions, but I have not met with much success under these condi-
tions, and usually therefore have had to try one at a time-the other
being frequently absent or in another room, though also frequently
present and acting as part or sole agent.
I once tried a double agent-that is, not two agents thinking of the
same thing, but two agents each tbinkjngof a different thing. A mixed
and curiously double impression was thus produced and described by the
percipient, and both the objects were correctly drawn. .
DESCRIPTION OF SOME OF THE EXPERIMENTS.
In order to describe the experiments briefly I will put in parentheses
everything said by me or by the agent, and in inverted commas all the
remarks of the percipient. The first seven experiments are all that
were made on one evening with the particular percipient, and they
were rapidly performed.
A. Expelimentl with. Mits .R. CI8 Percipient.
First .Agent, Mr. Birchall, holding 1KmdI. No onl! ela/! present except myself.
Object-a blue .quaTI! oj silk.-{Now, it's going to be a colour; ready.)
" Is it green 1" (No.) "It's something between green and blue. • . •
Peacock." (What shape 1) She drew a rhombus.
[N.B.-It is not intended to imply that this was a success by any means,
and it is to be understood that it was only to make a start on the first ex-
periment that so much help was givenas is involved in saying" it's a colour."
When they are simply told" it's anobject," or, what is much the same, when
nothing is said at all, the field for guessing is practically infinite. When n()
remark at starting is recorded none was made, except such an one lIB " Now
we are ready," by myself.]
Next object-a key on II black ground.-(It's an object.) In a few seconds
she said, "It's bright. • • • It looks like a key." Told to draw it she
drew it just inverted.
Next object-three gold stutls in morocco CClBe.-" Is it yellow 1 • . •
Something gold. . . • Something round. . . . A locket or a watch
perhaps." (Do you see more than one round 1) "Yes, there seem to be
more than one. . • . Are there three rounds 1 • . . Three rings."
(What do they seem to be set in 1) "Something bright like beads."
[Evidently not understanding or attending to the question.] Told to un-
blindfold herself and draw,she drew the three rounds in a row quite correctly,
and then sketched round themabsently the outline of the case ; whichseemed,
Digitized by Coogle
ISS!.] E:r:perimentB in Tkought-Tranajerence. 195
therefore, to have been apparent to her though she had not consciously
attended to it. It was an interesting and striking experiment.
Next objec~ pair l'f lICissO'l'IJ .taMing partly openwith their point. dottm.
-"Is it a ,bright object 1 . . • Something long ways. [indicating
verticality]. • . • A pair of scissors standing up. . . • A little bit
open." Time, about a minute altogether. She then drew her impression,
and it was correct in every particular. The object in this experiment was on
a settee behind her, but its position had to be pointed out to her when, after
the experiment, she wanted to see it.
Next object-a drawing of a right angle triangle on its Bide.-(It's a
drawing.) She drew an isosceles triangle on its side.
Nex~ circle with a cord GCr088 it.-She drew two detached ovals, one
with a cutting line across it.
N~ drawing of II Union Jack pattern.-As usual in drawing experi-
OBIGIlI'AL, UPBODIJO'rIOI'.
ments. Miss R. remained silent for perhaps a minute j then she said, "Now
I am ready." I hid the object j she took oft'the handkerchief, and proceeded
to draw on paper placed ready in front of her. She this time drew all the
lines of the figure except the horizontal middle one. She was obviously
much tempted to draw this, and, indeed, began it two or three times faintly,
but ultimately said, "No, I'm not sure," and stopped.
[N.B.-The actual drawings made in all the experiments are preserved
intact by Mr. Guthrie.]
.E:qJ6rimentB with Miss R.-rontimud.
I will now dpscribe an experiment indicating that one agent may
be better than another.
Object-the Tlwee of HeartB.-Miss E. and Mr. Birchall both present as
agents, but Mr. Birchall holding percipient's hands at first. "Is it a black
cross • • a white ground with a black cross on it 1" Mr. Birchall now let
Miss E. hold hands instead of himself, and Miss R. very soon said, "Is it a.
card 1" (Right.) " Are there three spots on it 1 • • . Don't know what
they are. . . . I don't think I can get the colour. • • • They are
one above the other, but they seem three round spots. • • • I think
they're red, but am not clear."
N«I:t object-aplaying card with a blue anchor pamted on it slantwise in-
stead of pip.. No contact at all this time, but another lady, Miss R--d,
who had entered the room, assisted Mr. B. and Miss E. as agents. ., Is it
an anchod • • a little on the slant." (Do you see any colour 1) "Colour
is black • • • It's a nicely drawn anchor." When asked to draw she
sketched part of it, but had evidently half forgotten it, and not knowing the
nae of the cross arm, she could only indicate that there was something more
Digitized by Coogle
196 Bzperim8nts in Thought-Trany'erence. [June 30"
there but ahe couldn't remember what. Her drawing had the right slant
exactly•
.Another object-two pGir oj eoa,.. lina crouing; al'GtDn. in red chalk, and
set up at lOme distance from agents. No contact. " I only see lines cross-
ing." She saw no colour. She afterwards drew them quite correctly, but
very small.
Double object.-It was now that I arranged the double object between
Mias R---d and Mias E., who happened to be sitting nearly facing one
another. [See Nature, June 12th, 1884:.] The drawing was a square on one
side of the paper, a cross on the other. Mias R---d looked at the side with
o x
OBIGDlALS. . BBPBODl1OUOIJ.
the square on it. Mias E. looked at the side with the cross. Neither knew
what the other was looking at-nor did the percipient know that anything
unusual was being tried. Mr. Birchall was silently asked to take off his
attention, and he got up and looked out of window before the drawings were
brought in, and during the experiment. There was no contact. Very soon
Mias R. said, "I see things moving about • • • I seem to see two
things • • • I see first one up there and then one down there • . •
I don't know which to draw. • • • I can't see either distinctly." (Well
anyhow, draw what you have seen.) She took off the bandage and drew first
a square, and then said, " Then there was the other thing as well • • .
afterwards they seemed to go into one," and she drew a cross inside the
square from comer to comer, adding afterwards, "I don't know what made
me put it inside."
The next is a case of a perfect stranger acting as agent by himself
at the first trial. Dr. Shears, house physician at the Eye and Ear Infir-
mary,came down to seethe phenomena, andMissR. having arrivedbefore
the others, Mr. Guthrie proposed his trying as agent alone. Dr. Shears,
therefore, held Miss R.'s hand while I set up in front of him a card:
nothingwha.tever being said as to the nature ofthe object.
Object-the fi,fJe oj club" at first on a white gf'OtUl&d. "Is it IOmething
bright 7" (No answer, but I changedthe object to a blsckground whereit was
more conspicuous.) "A lot of black with a white square on it.' (Go on.)
" Is it a csrd 7" (Yes.) " Are there five spots on it T' (Yes.) "Black ones."
(Right.) "I can't see the suit, but I thinkit's spades."
.Another object at _me Bitting, but with 1e1Iet'IJ' agents, flO contact, a drawing
oj this form-
z) ><
OBIGDlAL. BKPBODl1CTIOIJ
"I can see IOmething, but I am sure I can't draw it. •• It's IOmething
willi points all round it. • • • It's a star, • • • or like a triangle
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] Ea:periments in Tkougkt-Traniference. 197
within a triangle." Asked to draw it, she expressed reluctance, said it was
too difficult, and drew part of a star figure, evidently a crude reproduction
of the original but incomplete. She then began afresh by "drawing a triangle,
but was unable to proceed.
I then showed her the object for a few seconds. She exclaimed, "Oh
yes, that's what I saw. • • • I understand it now." I said, "Well now
draw it." She made a more complete attempt, but it was no more reallylike
the original than the first had been.
Ba:periment& at a Bitti'l!1 in the room of Dr. Herdman, Professor oj Zoology at
U"iversity Oollege.
Ubject-a drawing of the outline of a ftag.-Miss R. as percipient in
OIUOIlUL. RBPII.ODUCTlOJr.
contact with Miss E. as agent. Very quickly Miss R. said, "It's a little flag,"
and when asked to draw, she drew it fairly well but perverted. I showed her
the flag (as usual after a success), and then took it away to the drawing place
to fetch something else. I made another drawing, but instead of bringing it
I brought the flag back again and set it up in the same place as before, but
inverted. There was no contact this time. Miss R--d and Miss E. were
acting as agents.
Object-sameftagin1lerled.-.After some time, Miss R. said, "No, I can't
see anything this time. I still see that flag. • • • The flag keeps bothering
me. • • • I shan't do it this time." Presentlylsaid, "Well, drawwhat
you saw anyway." She said, "I only saw the same flag, but perhaps it had
a cross on it." So she drew a flag in the same position as before, but added
a cross to it. Questioned as to aspect she said "Yes, it was just the same as
before."
i
Object-an oval gold ZocXet hangmg by a bit of string 'With a UttZe price labeZ
attac1&ed.-Placed like the former object on a large drawing board, swathed
in a college gown. The percipient, Miss R., close behind the said board and
almost hidden by it. Agents, Miss R--d and Miss E. sitting in front; DO
contactj nothing said. "I see somethinggold, • • . something hanging,
. • . like a gold locket." (What shape 7) "It's oval," indicating with
her fingers correctly. (Very good so far, tell us something more)-meaning
Digitized by Coogle
198 Ezperiment8 in Thought-Transference. [JUDe 30,
ticket at top. No more said. When shown the object she said, cc Oh yes,
it was just like that," but she had seen nothing of the little paper ticket.
Nezt object-a watch aM chain pinned up to the board a. on II waist-
toat.-This experiment was a fa.ilure, and is only interesting because the
watch-ticking sounded abnormally loud, sufficient to give any amount of
hint to a person on the look out for such sense indications. But it is very
evident to those witnessing the experiments that the perCipient isin a quitedif-
ferent attitude of mind to that of a clever guesser, and ordinary sense indica-
tions seem wholly neglected. I scarcely expected, however, that the watch-
ticking could pass unnoticed, though indeed we shu1lled our feet to drown it.
somewhat, but so it was; and all we got was cc something bright
either steelor silver. • • • Is itanything like a pairof scissors 1" (Not a.
bit.)
I have now done with the selection of experiments in which Mi.sB
R. acted as percipient; and I will describe some of those made with
Miss E. As a rule, these seemed perhaps less satisfactory and complete
at the time, but there are several points of considerable interest notice-
able in connection with them.
B.-Bl:periment. with NUl B. CJ8 Percipient.
Object-an oblong piece of red (cerise) silk. Agent, Mr. B., in contact.-
cc Red." (What sort of red 1) cc A dark red." (What shape 1) cc One patch.'·
(Well, what shade is it 1) cc Not a pale red."
N~t object-a yeZlow oblong. Agent as before.-cc A dusky gold colour.
. . • A square of some yellow shade."
Objut-the printed Zetter r. Told it was a letter; agent as before.-" I can
see R." (What sort of R 1) cc An ordinary capital R."
This illustrates feebly what often, though not always, happens with Miss
E.-that the idea of the object is grasped rather than its actual shape.
Another object-a..mall printed e.-"Is it E 1" (Yes.) But, again, she
couldn't tell what sort of E it was.
Object-a. teapot cut out of silver paper.-Present-Dr. Herdman, Miss
OBIGIlUL. JLBPRODtJOTIOJr•
R-d, and Miss R., Miss R. holding percipient's hands, but all thinking
of the object. Told nothing. She said, "Something light. . • • No
colour. . • • Looks like a duck. . • • Like a silver duck. . . .
Something oval. • . • Head at one end and ta.il at the other." [This is
not uncommon in ducks.] The object, being rather large, was then moved
further back, so that it might be more easily grasped by the agents as a.
whole, but percipient persisted that it was like a duck. On being told to
unbandage and draw, she drew a rude and perverted copy of the teapot, but
didn't know what it was unless it was a duck. Dr. Herdman then explained
Digitized by Coogle
1884.] E:eperiments in Tllought-Traniference. 1990
that he had been thinking all the time how like a duck the original teapot
was, and, in fact, had been thinking more of ducks than teapots.
Next object--G hand mirror brought in ond IIIlt up in front of Mi88 R-d.
-No contact at first. Told nothing. She.said, "Is it a coloud" (No.),
"No, I don't see anything." Object then shifted for Miss R. to look at
herself in it, holding percipient's hand. "No, I don't get this." Gave it.
up. I then hid the mirror in my coat, and took it out of the room. Dr.
Herdman reports that while I was away Miss E. begged to know what the
object had been, but the agents refused, saying that I had evidently wished
to keep it secret. Half annoyed, Miss E. said, "Oh, well, it doesn't matter.
I believe it was a looking-glass."
Next object-a drawing of a right.angled triangle. No contact.-" Is it.
like that T' drawing a triangle with her finger (no answer). "It's almost.
like a triangle." She then drew an isosceles triangle.
Next object-a drawing of two pat'allel but curved linllll. No contact.-" I
only see two lines," indicating two parallellines. " Now they seem to close-
up."
Nezt object-a tetrahedron outline n«leZy drllWt~ in projectwn--" Is it·
another triangle 1" (No answer, but I silently pass round to the agents a
scribbled message, "Think of a pyramid.") Miss E. then said, "I only-
see a triangle." . . . then hastily, "Pyramids of Egypt. No, I shan't
do this." Asked to draw, she only drew a triangle.
Object-a rude outline of a donkey or other quadruped.-Still no contact.
at first. "Can't get it, I am sure." I then asked the agents to leave the
room, and to come in and try one by one. First Miss &----d, without
contact, and then with. Next Miss R., in contact, when Miss E. said
hopelessly, "An old woman in a poke bonnet." Finally I tried as agent;
alone, and Miss E. said "It's like a donkey, but I can't see it, nor caa
I draw it."
O.-EzperimenfB with both. Percipi.enfB at once.
In addition to the experiments with single percipients, I tried a few
with both percipients sitting together-hoping to learn something bY'
comparing their different perceptions of the same object.
But unfortunately the experiments were not very successful; some-
times they each appeared to get different aspects or the parts of object,
but never very distinct or perfect impressions. The necessity of im-
posing silence on the percipients, as well as on the agents, was also
rather irksome, and renders the results less describable without the-
actual drawings.
I stillthink that thia variation might convey something interesting if
pursued under favourable circumstances. Whether greater agent-
power is necessary to affect two percipients as strongly as one; or
Digitized by Coogle
200 E:epel'iment8 t'n Tkotlgllt-TranBjet'en~. [June 30, 1884.
whether the blankness of mind of one percipient re-acts on the other, I
cannot say.
With regard to the feelings of the percipients when receiving an
impression, they seem to have some sort of consciousness of the action
of other minds on them; and once or twice, when not so conscious,
have complained that there seemed to be "no power" or anything
acting, and that they not only received no impression, but did not feel
as if they were going to.
I asked Miss E. what she felt when impressions were coming freely,
and she said she felt a sort of influence or thrill. They both say
that several objects appear to them sometimes, but that one among
them persistently recurs, and they have a feeling when they:fix: upon
one that it is the right one.
Sometimes they seem quite certain that they are right. Sometimes
they are very uncertain, but still right. Occasionally Miss E. has been
pretty confident and yet quite wrong.
One serious failure rather depresses them, and after a success others
'Often follow. It is because of these rather delicate psychological con-
ditions that one cannot press the variations of an experiment as far
as one would do if dealing with inert and more dependable matter.
Usually the presence of a stranger spoils the phenomena, though in
some cases a stranger has proved a good agent straight oft'.
The percipients complain of no fatigue as induced by the experi-
ments, and I have no reason to suppose that any harm is done them.
The agent, on the other hand, if very energetic, is liable to contract a
headache; and Mr. Guthrie himself, who was a powerful and determined
agent for a long time, now feels it wiser to refrain from acting, and
conducts the experiments with great moderation.
If experiments are only conducted for an hour or so a week no harm
can, I should judge, result, and it would be very interesting to know
what percentage of people have the perceptive faculty well developed.
The experiments are easy to try,' but they should be tried soberly
and quietly, like any other experiment. A. public platform is a most
unsuitable place; and nothing tried before a mixed or jovial audience
can be of the slightest scientific value. Such demonstrations may be
~fficient into putting money into the pockets of showmen, or in amusing
one's friends; but all real evidence must be obtained in the quiet of
the laboratory or the study.
Digitized by Coogle
Expen'ments in Mesmerism. 201
VII.
AN AOOOUNT OF SOME EXPERIMENTS IN MESMERISM.
By EDMUND GURNEY.
I.-Local Anresthesia.
In the second report of the Oommittee on Mesmerism, an account
was given of some experiments in the production,by mesmerism,of local
rigidity and anresthesia, under conditions which precluded the subject
from knowing which particular part of his body was subjected to the
mesmeric process. The object of these conditions was, of course, to
eliminate the factor of expectancy. If the "subject" knows what part
of his body is being operated on, that knowledge may alone be quite
enough to produce rigidity and anresthesia in the part; just as one
may see a sensitive" subject" go into violent spasms at the touch of a
coin, or on drinking water, which he believes to have been" magnetised,"
even though that belief is erroneous. But if the "subject" is ignorant
what particular part of his body has been selected for the purpose, and
if rigidity and anlllSthesia in this part results from the making of passes
over it or from the mere proximity of the operator's hand, then the
phenomenon must be attributed to some direct and specific influence
passing from the mesmeriser to the "subject." It may be
remembered that the method adopted was to seat the "subject"
in front of a table, on which his ten fingers were extended ;
while his body was covered in front by a very thick paper screel1,
extending far above his head, with holes in it for his arms to pass
through. In this manner it was easy to make it perfectly certain that
he could not see his hands. Differentfingers, or combinations of fingers,
were then mesmerised in succession, by passes made without contact,
and so quietly as to prevent the "subject" from discovering, by means
of currents of air, which of his digits was being operated on. 'fo
make assurance doubly sure, one of ourselves would make similar
movements over some other finger or fingers than those on which
the mesmeriser was at work. The experiments, as so far reported, were
made with two "subjects," and have since been repeated with a third;
and in every one of the numerous trials the mesmerised finger, or fingers,
proved insensible to pain, so far as could be judged by the application
of very severe tests. In every case, also, when the "subject" was told
to double up his fist, the mesmerised member remained stickin out in
Digitized by Coogle
~02 Experiments in Mesmerism.
helpless rigidity, and so, for the first time, made its owner aware of t.he
abnormal condition into which it had passed.
It will be observed that this second phenomenon-the rigidity-is, as
a test, even more completely satisfactory than the first, the insensibility
to pain. For as regards the insensibility, though nobody who witnessed
the experiments was able seriously to doubt its genuineness, the objec-
tion always remains that very extraordinary feats in the endurance of
pain have been known to be performed without any assignable motive.
But with the rigidity a similar objection would have no weight; for
though,of course, the rigidity itself might be easily simulated, the" sub-
ject" had-as I have explained-no means of knowing which was the
right finger or pair of fingers to simulate with; and it is clearly out
()f the question that a mere guess on this point should have been
unfailingly correct.
But though the test afforded by telling the "subject" todouble up his
()r her fist was thus evidentially the more complete, the test of insensi-
bility is capable of being made very convincing on its own account.
\Vhat is wanted is some mode of infliction which a person whose
finger was in a normal state would be quite unable to endure without
flinching, but which at the same time will leave no painful or unpleasant
traces behind, when the finger had been demesmerised and resumed its
normal condition. Fortunately such a mode of infliction is afforded
by electricity. The shock of an intermittent current can be made strong
enough to defy the most hardened powers of endurance,while producing
no prolonged ill effects such as would follow a stab or a burn. Accord-
ingly this test was adopted by Dr. Myers and myself on the 26th and
27th April last. The mesmeriser was Mr. G. A. Smith, and the su~ject
was the young baker, Fred \Vells, with whom most of the previous
experiments had been made.
The same precautions as before were taken to prevent the" subject"
from seeing his fingers, and thus to preclude the operation of expectancy.
The result was entirely satisfactory. By gradually moving out the
regulating-tube of an induction-coil, we could mark the stage at which
the pahl produced by the current began to pass our own powers of
endurance, and we could then immensely increase its strength.* Eleven
trials were made, the finger to be mesmerised being each time
selected by ourselves; and in every case there was very marked loss of
sensibility in this finger. In ten of these trials the particular finger
proved insensible to the very strongest shock that could be obtained
from the apparatus; and in the eleventh to all but the very
* The apparatus consisted of an induction coil, 4in. long Ilin. diameter,
with 10 yards primary wire (No. 18 Birmingham gauge), and 50 yards secondary
wire (No. 35 gauge) j a regulator j and two quite new pint bichromate cells•.
Ea:periments in· Mesmerism. 203
strongest. But there was sometimes a curious additional result.
In five cases, when the mesmerised finger was being sub-
jected to the full current, Wells said that he felt a weak
effect in another part of his hands. When the middle finger of the
left hand, and when the forefinger of the same, was the mesmerised
member, this weak effect was felt in the thumb; on the other three occa.-
sions it was felt in the palm-once even in the palm of the other hand,
and once in the palm of both hands. Wells described the shock, thus
localised at a littledistance fromthe mesmerisedfinger,as about as strong
as the very slight shocks which we administered to the unmesmerised
fingers just to make sure that they remained sensitive-showing that
the strong current was producing an effect immensely below the
normal. I may mention that I once by accident touched one of the
unmesmerised fingers with the terminal wire for the fraction of a second,
when the current was at its full strength; and the violent wince and
exclamation which resulted were a pretty sure index of what was felt.
There was a further point of importance in the last four of these
trials. The effect was then produced without any passes at all, the
operator merely holding his hand downwards over the destined finger
of the "subject," from which the tips of his own fingers were about two
inches distant. Wells's hands are tolerably pachydermatous; and it is
extremely difficult to believe that, under these conditions, any physical
indication, such as a very slight difference of temperature, could have
made him aware which of his ten fingers was nearest to the operator's
hand.
We then proceeded to test a hypothesis to which attention was drawn
in the second report ofthe Committee. We there referred to the question
how far these finger-experiments bore out the idea that some special
effluence or some special form of local "nervous induction," passed
between the fingers of the operator and those of the" subject." If this
were the case, then apparently it ought not to be necessary that the opera-
tor should himself know over which of the subject's fingers he is making
passes, or holding his hand; the effect ought to be producible when he is
looking away, and his hand is guided to the appropriate position or
movements by a third person. If, on the other hand, this blind and
passive mode of operating ·prove unavailing, and the knowledge of the
operator as to which of the "subject's" fingers is to be affected, with a
distinct direction of attention to that finger, prove to be indispensable
conditions of success, then the theory of a special effluence or special
local induction seems inapplicable, or at any rate insufficient. Now trial
showed that these conditions were indispensable; the selected finger
remained perfectly sensitive and flexible when passes were made over it
by my guiding Mr. Smith's hand, while his eyes and attention were
turned in another direction.
Digitized by Coogle
204 Efrj)eriments in Mesmerism.
The deductions from this fact are very interesting; for if the
operator's knowledge and attention are necessary for successful results,
then those results seem inevitably to fall under that capacious category of
Thought-transference, of which members of this Society hear so much.
It is true that the thought is not conveyed as a thought; for no im-
pression as to which is the selected finger is conveyed to the subject's
intelligence. But among the evidence of telepathy which the Literary
Committee have collected, there are several instances where the
emotional or volitional condition of one person has produced actions in
another person which the latter has been quite unable to account for,
and has performed in obedience to a blind impulse. And it is to the
same class that the local effects which I have been describing seem to
be partly referable. For it certainly does not seem impossible to
suppose that if a marked effect may be telepathically produced.by the
condition of one person on the motor system of another, without the
transference of any distinct idea, a like effect may also be produced on
the sensory system. It will probably be granted by those who at all
accept the principle of telepathy, that the operator's knowledge as to
which particular finger he is operating on is an idea which might be
communicatedbyThought-transference; itwillbe further granted by those
who realise the power of suggestion and expectation to produce physical
effects, that such an idea, if present to the" subject's: consciousness,
might lead to local paralysis of movement and sensation in the finger
thought of; and, finally, the analogy of the cases of blind telepathic
impulse, to which I have just referred, makes it conceivable to us that
this very same train of events might take place with the omission of the
psychical element on the subject's part-with the omission, that is, of
his knowledge or conscious idea of the particular finger that was being
affected. If this were so, we should have established one more link of
connection between the spon~ telepathic communications, between
persons at a distance, and the experimental communications, occurring
otherwise than through the recognised sensory channels, which may
be obtained within the four walls of a room.
At the same time, this supposition does not altogether meet.
the case, so far as the recent experiments are concerned. For
while these experiments showed-as I have described-that the mere
proximity of the mesmeriser's hands was ineffective if his attention was
not directed to his work, they also showed that mere concentrated
attention on his part, without any manual process, was equally ineffec-
tive. When Mr. Smith attempted to produce the local effect by steadily
gazing at the selected finger, without approximating his hand to it at
all, the normal condition of the finger remained quite unchanged, and
it proved sensitive to the very weakest shock. It appeared, therefore,
that the local physical process,whatever it may be,though not producible
Digitized by Coogle
Experiment8 in ..MesmeriBm. 205
apart from thought and attention, was still in itself indispensable;
and thus the suggested analogy between experimental and spontaneous
phenomena is here far from complete.
n.-Oommunity of Sensation.
The following experiments in transference of pains and tastes were
also made by Dr. Myers and myself, on April 26th, the agent being
Mr. G. A. Smith, and the" subject" a very intelligent young cabinet-
maker, named Conway, who had been thrown into a light hypnotic
trance. For the first set Mr. Smith was in light contact with Con-
way, behind whom he stood. No hint was given to Conway as to
whether his answers were right or wrong: he was simply asked by Dr.
Myers or myself what he felt. Mr. Smith kept perfect silence
throughout.
1. Mr. Smith was pinched, by one of the experimenters, on the right
upper arm. Conway localised very nearly the corresponding place on
the left arm, and then the right spot on the right arm.
2. Mr. Smith's right foot was pressed. Conway began to move his
right leg uneasily, and complained of pain from the foot upwards.
3. Mr. Smith's right little finger was pinched. CJnway complained
of pain in the right shoulder.
4. The lower lobe of Mr. Smith's left ear was pinched. Conway
complained that the hair a~ve his right ear was being pulled.
o. Mr. Smith's right upper eyelid was pinched. Conway complained
of pain in the forehead.
6. Mr. Smith's left popliteal space was pinched. Conway com-
plained of pain in the lower third of the left thigh.
7. Mr. Smith was pinched in the right lumbar region. Conway
complained of pain in the left hypochondrium and lumbar region.
In the next set of trials there was .no contact whatever between Mr.
Smith and Conway. Nor was Conway (who was still in the hypnotic
state) informed before the experiments began of what nature they were
to be. Standing at some distance behind him, I suddenly and silently
gave Mr. Smith some salt, motioning to him to put it into his mouth.
He did so; and Conway instantly and loudly exclaimed, "What's this
salt stuff1"
I now gave Mr. Smith in succession- Conway said-
Sugar.........................................."Sweeter; not so bad as before."
Citric Acid..................................."Bitter; something worse-a little reminds
me of cayenne-sweety."
A Raspberry Drop........................." A sweetish taste-like sugar."
Salt.. ..........................................."I told you I liked sweet things, not salt-
such a mixture!"
Cloves.........................................." Don't like it; hot-little bit of honey
mixed with it."
Q
206 ExpeTiments in Mesmerism.
Salt............................................." Something acid, salty-first one thing,
then another-like brine."
Powdtred Ginger....... ...................." Hot; dries your mouth up. Don't like
it,-reminds me of must8.rd."
Sugar....,....•••............•..................." A little better--a sweetish taste."
PO'IIJderetl Alum.............................." You call that SWCI't. io you? Brackish
and bitter this-enough to skin your
mouth out; bitter."
Caytmne Pepper................................ It's hot, and there is some sugar in it just
to soften it over a bit. It is hot-you
would feel hot, I can tell you."
Clo'lJ68•...•... ..•..••........•.•.....•...•..•..." Not so very much better, but it'ssweeter;
it's sugar, only something elsewith it."
Vinegar...........................•............Conway had sunk into a deeper hypnotic
sleep, and made no remarK.
Throughout the series Mr. Smith preserved perfect silence; and the
only remarks made by Dr. Myers and myself were brief inquiries as to
what Conway tasted, with an occasional word calculated to mislead
him.
These are not picked results; <!nly one other series of experiments
has been made with Conway, and these are fully reported in Part V. of
the Proceedings. There are practical difficulties in the way of obtain-
ing either him or Wells for regular and frequent trials; as both are in
positions of responsibility, and their time is very fully occupied.
Digitized by Coogle
Experiments in Thought-TranBfere~. 207
VIII.
DIAGRAMS
ILLUSTRATIVE OF THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE
The follo~g diagrams, illustrative of a special form of Thought-
transference, are part of a series referred to in Part V. of the Pr0.-
ceedings, p. 7, under the head of results obtained by independent
investigators. Professor Barrett has seen the "agent," Mr. J. W.
Smith, of Brunswick Place, Leeds, and his sister, the" percipient," and
has carefully explained to them the necessary precautions; but their
description of the mode in which they had worked before this inter-
view convinced him that those previous trials had been conducted with
due care, and that the results were genuine. The experiments have been
made throughout without contact. The first four of the diagrams here
engraved were made before Professor Barrett's visit; the last four have
been made since his visit.
It may be added that whenever the Committee on Thought-trans-
ference obtain evidence of a case of this kind, where the power seems
tolerably continuous, and the conditions, as reported, seem satisfactory,
they will do all in their power to obtain opportunities for personally
conducting the experiments. Meanwhile, they cannot too strongly
urge the importance of having trials made as widely as possible in
families and private circles. They are continually hearing of results
-obtained without contact or the possibility of sensory indications-
which show that the genuine faculty is by no means extraordinarily
rare; but often the scientific value of the experiments is not realised,
and 110 written record has been kept. If only every indication of this
sort were carefully followed up, a body of evidence might be collected
which would greatly hasten the general acceptance of the facts.
Digitized byt;oogle
208 Experinnents in Thought-Transference.
OIllGINAL DRAWING.
REPRODUCTION.
Digitized by CoogIe
Experiment8 in Thought-Transference. 209
ORIGINAL DRAWING.
RBl'BODUCTION.
o d
5)0
Digitized by Coogle
210 Experiments in TluYught-Transference.
ORIGINAL DRAWING.
REPRODUCTION.
Digitized by Coogle
Egpe'I"iIrMnts in Thought-Transference. 211
ORIGINAL DRAWING.
REPRODUCTION.
Digitized by CoogIe
212 EwpeTitrnems in TJwught-T'1'Q/1UJfer~.
OBIGINAL DRAWING.
RBPBODUCTION.
Digitized by Coogle
· Experilments in Thought-Transference. 213
ORIGINAL DRAWING.
REPRODUCTION.
-
"'>
igi ed , ' ( "
214 Ewperiments in Thought-T'I'OIn8ference.
ORIGINAL DRAWING.
RBPBoDUcmOJr.
Digitized by Coogle
Experiments in Thought-T'MInB/erence. 215
OBIGINAL DRAWING.
REl'BODl1arIOlll'.
Digitized by Coogle
216 Expe'f"iIrMnts in Th<Yll1Jht-Transference.
The following table of results was filled up by Mr. J. W. Smith on
one of the forms supplied by the S.P.R.
EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
Agent or Agents. Percipient.
J. W. SMITH. KATE SMITH.
Date. Object selected. First trial. Second
trial.
March 11. Figure 8. Correct first time.
- Figure 5. Correct first time.
- Black cross on Correct first time.
white ground.
- Colour blue. Correct first time.
- Cipher {OJ. Correct first time.
- Pa.ir of scissors. I did not 8&y what (i.e., wh&t
form of experiment-figure,
colour, or object) W&8 to be
next, bute&refully and with-
out noise laid a pa.ir of
scissors on a white ground,
and in about one minute
and a-half she exclaimed,
..Scissors I"
Group. Total No. No. right on first trial. No.~htOD
of experiments. 88COn trial.
~-
3 figures. 6 6
1 colour.
~1 object. I I I
1 pa.ir of scis-
sors.
OBSERVATIONS: Whilst sitting at dinner (March 11th, 1884), I was
thinking about a person who had died. Just then one of my sisters
(not the thought-reader) exclaimed: "I wonder if it will be a large
funeral." We had not spoken about that subject previously. After
that I thought to myself I would see if I could make her hum a tune.
I then (to myself, that is to say, without uttering any sound whatever)
hummed a tune, and to my surprise she also sang aloud the same song.
After that, I resolved that she should lift her fork up (she had finished
her dinner); she did so immediately. I do not know whether this was
an instance of Thought-transference or not, but if it were not so it seema
an astounding coincidence. (No contact.)-J. W. S.
