{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tami_n_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Tami N Probable NDE 5152","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tami N Probable NDE 5152  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tami N Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2682 Tami N Probable NDE 5152  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As I was driving my motorcycle to work one morning, a car did a U-turn and hit me. At sixty mph, I hit the road with no helmet on. I died right away from the accident. An emergency room doctor saw it happen, worked on me, and got me to the trauma center in the hospital. I broke all the bones on my right side, and seriously injured my head. The left side of my brain was separated from the right. I died three more times at the hospital. I was on life support and in a coma for two months.

When I woke up, I didn't know how I had gotten there, and couldn't even remember my name. I couldn't walk, talk, or see, and I lost all my memory from before the accident. I did remember who talked to me, and around me, while I was in the coma. The first day, a good friend came and begged me to live, but after that, my family wouldn't let me have any visitors. But they couldn't stop my old boss from visiting me. He had died five years before of cancer, and I had helped him at that time. He came and sat with me on my bed while I was in the coma. The room looked bare, but not dark, and we sat and talked about work and hunting off and on for a couple of months. At that point, he told me it was time for me to wake up and go back to work, that I had slept long enough.

I woke up, and after a few months, I did learn how to walk, and talk again, and got my vision back. It took a few months more to get most of my memory back. I know there must be a reason for this.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  10/30/2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident. Direct head injury    Other 'Trauma accident, Life threatening, with death and in a coma and on life support for two months'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I was talking to my old boss.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was talking to my old boss.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Some things seemed the same, and some didn't seem real. It was hard for me to grasp what some of them were about.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    In the coma, sound seemed different, and also when I first woke up. It took a few months for things to seem normal again.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     l left here and went down a hall to a room they had put my body in. I watched them work on me. Then I sat on the bed and talked to my old boss.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I talked to my old boss. I talked to my old best friend who used to be my neighbor and had died three years before. She had been old when she died, and I had loved her dearly. I met some new people and talked to them; they had died, too. I didn't know why I was meeting them, because I had not known them before they died. They just said that later on I would know why. Now I do. After I came back to this life, I met the best friend of one of those people. Now that person is MY best friend. Another one of them, a lady that had died, she told me I had to go back and take care of her husband. I had been out of the hospital for a couple of weeks, when I met him. We both felt a special connection and are still together now.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was just down the hall in a bright room.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I wasn't scared any more to die. But I couldn't understand why I had to come back. I seemed to lose my understanding of why we are living. (I never used to think about it.)

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Raised Baptist but hadn't gone in while

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Still believe but don't go

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I had a hard time understanding why I lived.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My family walked away from me. It's been a long time since I saw them. It's still hard to understand that one, but now my friends have become my family. It makes me love them even more!  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   Other than how some people talked around me in the coma.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Now I understand more about how people are.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I have a new chance at life now because of this. I didn't really have the best kind of life before, and now I do. I did learn the value of true friends.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    I try to explain it, and I don't think most people understand what I went through.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Right after it happened; I considered the experience to be definitely real.  It took me a long time to get back to reality. It was hard to get my memory back. Hard to understand the questions that came with it. It took several months for me to sort things out. I have been blessed by friends who have helped me out.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still consider the experience to be definitely real. And it has made me appreciate how important a person's friends can be.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It makes you appreciate your friends. I learned that to get your memory back, you have to do things you used to do in your life before. When you're in a coma, you do hear what's being said, even if you can't respond at all. So if you ever have a family member that's in a coma, just talk to them like normal - they need that!!!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tami_n_probable_nde.html