{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tami_c_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Tami C Probable NDE 4493","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tami C Probable NDE 4493  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tami C Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2257 Tami C Probable NDE 4493  					  				  			      			  			  				  				

  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In March 1984, I was six months pregnant, and awoke with severe pain in my leg. In preparation of going to the emergency room, I began to feel faint, and felt like I was going to pass out. I recovered within a few minutes, and my husband quickly drove to the emergency room. While in the emergency room, I was lying down, and began to feel faint again. The emergency room staff quickly wheeled me into a room where they began to frantically 'work' on me. During this time, I could hear them say, 'We're losing her,' and 'The baby's heart rate is dropping.' A nurse also apologized to me as she told me that I was going to feel tremendous pain while sticking a needle in my wrist to take blood and measure the oxygen level. Despite all the frantic comments, and people rushing about, I felt nothing, but pure peace and no pain, and felt like I was floating. I remember thinking, 'I just want to go to sleep.' A voice quickly said, 'No, it's not your time.' The emergency room staff administered an IV of heparin since they determined that it was a blood clot. Once this was administered, I awoke and felt excruciating pain. Unbeknownst to me, a doctor took my husband aside, and told him that my daughter (yes, she was born a month later at 3 lbs. 11 oz.) and I were not expected to live. A few days later, I had an x-ray that revealed two pulmonary emboli (blood clots on the lung), which they believe happened during my fainting episodes.

It was challenging to be in the so-called real world, as I wanted to go back to the peace that I felt. I had a long road ahead of healing ahead of me with the pregnancy and giving myself shots of heparin. And there were many times, I asked to return to that state of being.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'March 4, 1984'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth  Pulmonary emboli...pregnancy related.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was six months pregnant, and had pulmonary emboli (blood clots on the lung).

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was being wheeled into emergency room, and sensing so much panic. Yet, I was in a high level of consciousness.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time didn't exist or it stood still.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    If I can describe, and it's hard to do so, I could only hear peace. Despite all the emergency room staff running about, and hearing the sounds of their voices, I only heard peace. I know this is very hard to understand.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   It was more like a presence of light all around.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The distinctive level of consciousness where only peace and love exists...there is no other.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Such euphoria of peace beyond anything that can be imagined. I felt such profound love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I'm much more aware of recognizing all beliefs in the power of Oneness.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm much more aware of recognizing all beliefs in the power of Oneness.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Since I've been able to be with this experience, and glean the wisdom, the special knowledge I received was to help others walk in the path of peace and love.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm much more compassionate and kind as this energy is with me all the time.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I couldn't describe the peace that I felt.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I'm aware of psychic, clairvoyance, and special communication gifts.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I can't help but return to that perfect place of peace, and in the last year, I keep hearing that message over and over again. With this said, I'm actually creating an environment which embodies this, and it's been through some challenging times, that this message is clear.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was several years before I really shared it. People have shared that since I have had an NDE that I'm gifted in some way, and know what it's like on the other side so as to benefit others.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I think I probably knew others had one, but didn't really focus on it either way.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was weeks because I was focusing on my pregnancy and subsequent birth of my daughter. After I had time to be with the experience, then I understood how real it was.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As I'm on my awakening journey, many years of trying to find answers, I now understand the presence of pure peace and that love and peace is all that exists.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   In the past year with the 'so-called' economic events, I'm returning to this perfect place of peace as if nothing else matters.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The experience came to me as a gift. Although for many years, because it was pulmonary emboli, the doctors kept saying I was at risk for many health related circumstances. I now know differently, and I'm not afraid. As I keep listening to my internal dialogue of communication with the Source of this gift, I'm on the road to explore all the benefits that come about through my listening.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No. Thank you so much for this awesome experience!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tami_c_probable_nde.html