{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tammy_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Tammy F NDE 4474","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tammy F NDE 4474  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tammy F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2248 Tammy F NDE 4474  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember my ex partner's hands around my neck as I was in a standing position. I slowly started to slide down the wall as I lost consciousness. 

Then, he was gone. I stood in my own head. Although I couldn't actually see my feet in my head, I was aware that I was out of my body, looking down at my own body - but standing, not laying prone. My body lay crumpled on the floor. I was wearing all white clothes in my new state. I looked left to the front door, trying to get my bearings and not understanding what I was seeing. I then looked right to the back door, which was open from where my ex-partner had ran, thinking I was dead. I had an unbelievable feeling of warmth and love. I could see the faces of my children and dead parents - everybody that was important to me kind of scrolled in front of me. I felt so calm and didn't want feeling to end. I was worried about leaving my children behind and that they had no one to care for them. I think I said 'my kids'. I'm guessing this timeframe was about 1-2 minutes from seeing myself to the end, when I suddenly awoke laying on floor where I had collapsed through lack of oxygen.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1998

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' strangulation  I was being strangled by ex-partner - he left me for dead.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Beginning to end.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I did not feel like I was in same house I was looking at.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw fleeting images of my kids and all loved ones dead and alive - seemed to flash in front of me like fast forward.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme love and kindness, calmness, joy, warmth, worry about my kids and peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Images of all people important to me fast forwarded in front of me - all of them smiling.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   non believer in religion - loathed concept of a god - afterlife etc.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Complete reversal of my beliefs - I did not/do not believe in Jesus, but now believe that there is an orchestrator of some sort of an energy.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   still not religious but believe that death is not the end

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Complete reversal of my beliefs - I did not/do not believe in Jesus, but now believe that there is an orchestrator of some sort of an energy.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I am now convinced that the energy in our bodies transcends this life after death. I used to think you died and just rotted, maybe have 70 years on this planet. Now I strongly believe/know there is something else.  I believe our soul is energy that is returned to space/time once it leave the human body.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I've changed but not sure if it's life experiences, maturity/knowledge or my NDE that has changed me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's hard to get across the intense love and warm 'HI' feeling - I'm used to being extremely emotional when discussing it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I seem to be able to understand people better now - insight into what makes them tick. I can see hurt in people.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The most powerful thing that comes across from the experience is knowing that there is something else - death is not the end. That and the powerful feeling of love/peace/calm.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me about 6 months before I could talk about it. The first few times I shared it I could hardly breathe whilst describing the emotions. I was extremely emotional. They reacted to it positively. No-one has ridiculed me about my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I still feel exactly the same about the experience as I did the day it happened - it was real. My views have never wavered nor will they.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The feelings and emotions were so strong - stronger than anything else I have ever encountered. No dream or nightmare or drug induced state has ever felt so real. I have experimented with drugs, including ketamine and speed, and nothing compares to this. I have had an experience/other life delusion/dream on ketamine whilst being high and it cannot be compared (this happened after NDE - I had never taken ketamine prior to the NDE).

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I used ketamine briefly post NDE, and experienced past life that seemed to go on for days, when actually it only lasted minutes when I passed out.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tammy_f_nde.html