{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tammy_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Tammy C NDE 459","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tammy C NDE 459  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tammy C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1282 Tammy C NDE 459  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in a severe head-on car crash in which the driver of the other car was killed instantly. I was the only passenger in a car driven by a good friend.

I did not really realize that I had the experience until the next day in the hospital. I was suddenly able to remember all kinds of events in my life - even from when I was a toddler. I then remembered the life-review segment of my experience and realized that these memories were still with me because of that experience.

I also remembered that in the midst of my accident the day before a radiant woman who 'told' me that I would be okay visited me. I did not remember feeling any pain when I was with her, just confusion because there was nothing around us and I didn't know what had happened to me or why I was there with her. She communicated with me without speaking audibly but 'impressed words and feelings' on me. That is the best way that I can explain it. I remember thinking, 'What happened?' and it was as if she answered my thoughts by 'telling' me. 'Don't worry about that. You are okay. You will be okay.' I felt complete trust in what she said and an intense feeling of peace too. There were also other people there and although they didn't look familiar I knew that I did know them somehow. They also were 'sending' feelings of peace and welcome, 'telling' me (again without words) that I would be okay.

For weeks afterward, I had a very strong feeling that there were presences in the room with me. Although the experience wasn't visual, I did hear people talking around my bed and 'hear' movement, too.

Now, nearly ten years later I do not remember specifically what those people look like or the details of my life review, but I have no fear of dying anymore.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  March, 92

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I am not positive as it seemed that I wasn't in my body.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I am still not sure how long this entire experience lasted - time seemed to be suspended.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See prior description of event.

The experience included:       Void

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It wasn't beautiful but just seemed to be a void. As if we were standing in 'nothingness' but I didn't feel like I was floating or flying, either.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion, then extreme peace.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     My life review was just 'flashes' of millions of memories seemingly at the speed of light, although I do remember thinking it was strange that as I was having the experience it wasn't like seeing a slide show, but as if I was actually participating in each event again. (I felt the feelings again.)

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am very aware that there is a spiritual world. I am also not afraid to die at all. I could even say that I look forward to it in certain respects, although I hesitate to say that to anyone because I am not suicidal and prefer to die when God wills it to happen.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     My younger brother was killed this summer. Prior to his death (over the period of several years) I had experienced several vivid nightmares in which he died - although he did not die in the same way in the dreams that it actually occurred in real life. Also, the days immediately prior to his death I had the distinct and strong feeling that he was going to need help or would have a bad experience that week. I even called him to make sure that he knew how to get a hold of me if anything should happen.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was just the feeling of being there which cannot be described easily with words. I just felt so at home, like I had come to a place I have always known and where I had always longed to be.  The worst part was seeing people who lived their lives without purpose engaging in silly quests like trying to be the thinnest or the most beautiful, when I came back with the knowledge that we are here for a reason.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most take interest, although I do not share it with anyone unless I am sure that they can handle it and will not immediately begin thinking that I must be on drugs or a psychopath of some sort.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Since my brother died I have had several 'flashback' memories about him and I as very young children that resemble the memories in the life review, although they could very well be the result of my longing to see him again and the intense grief that comes with losing a close family member.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tammy_c_nde.html