{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tammie_nde.html","mytitle":"Tammie NDE 3800","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tammie NDE 3800  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tammie NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1779 Tammie NDE 3800  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was hit by a car and thrown in front of another, my best friend was also struck in the head. I remember hearing her yelling, and mumbling words. She seemed scared and confused, so I got in the ambulance with her, when I looked at her, her face and head were vibrating really fast, so I held her hand, and she calmed down. I remember getting to the hospital together in the ambulance, we were inseparable best friends I wanting her to be ok. I then woke up on the ground with a Dallas police officer kneeling beside me. I could see everyone from my family and neighborhood there crying looking at me. I remember going into surgery and them putting tubes in me. My friend was released from the hospital two days later; I was there for three months. I died several times.

I asked my brother a couple of years ago did he remember hearing Karen's (my best friend) screams and me getting in the ambulance with her. He said they took Karen to the hospital before me, the policeman was trying to revive me, they didn't think I was going to make it. Both legs were broke I had internal bleeding, lungs collapsed, liver and colon squashed, broken ribs and just in terrible shape. I never told anyone what I had experienced; I just remember that's what happened. I know I couldn't have walked to the ambulance to check on my friend, but I was there with her.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Sept 13 1977
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Before surgery, after being struck by the cars and before surgery.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There's no such thing as space or time outside of the body.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Thoughts without words, calm and not hearing anything but more aware. I felt everyone's pain and fear, and even the rush to save my life, by the doctors, but I was completely calm and unafraid.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     i left my body, i saw what my girl friend was experiencing from her injury

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, helpless.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew what everyone was feeling.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I've never hated anyone, I can't imagine hurting anyone. Some people never look outside the physical self.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I was ten years old and was very aware life was more than my physical self.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        This accident changed my life, I was going down the wrong road at such a young age, it slowed me down. I look at my scars and I understand why. Kids back then did drugs, sex. I was in a wheelchair.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I talked to my boyfriend in depth about all my experiences, past seven years.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was months later, I was home, everyone was back to normal, but I was changed forever. I didn't talk about it. I believe everyone has an experience that they don't talk about much. I've been through everything; I know more than I can understand in depth.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I believe we have the ability to protect ourselves, in spirit, life has no end, and no beginning. We're here because we choose to be, love is all we desire, and I love my family and friends. What happened to me happens every day.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I'm glad people are talking about their experiences, I think as a race we are learning more about ourselves.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tammie_nde.html