{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tamara_v_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Tamara V NDE-Like 1083","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tamara V NDE-Like 1083  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tamara V NDE-Like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  						553.5  Tamara V NDE-Like  1083  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

11 July 2002, we decided to make a tour on the motorbike.


When returning home I closed my eyes for a moment because of the brightness of the Sun,  we were driving about  50 kilometers per hour, suddenly my husband started cursing, the motorbike accelerated enormously and I did not have the time to open my eyes.  It had happened in a flash, a bang, a few somersaults and there we were lying.   I suddenly felt very peaceful and happy and felt I wanted to leave my body when suddenly someone or something told me, "Don't go yet, it is not your time, your children still need you."  I felt someone take my hand and saw or knew that it was a woman all dressed in white and she made me feel very calm.


The I opened my eyes, I was lying in the grass and looked towards the Sun that  warmed my face, next to me there was a grasshopper that looked right at me, and I wanted to shout for joy, I felt one with everything, all is beauty, then I felt a needle in my hand and got very angry I had to stand up and take off my helmet, I had to go home to my kids then I was pressed on the ground and got a terrible pain in my leg and was totally conscious again.


In the mean time police and ambulance had arrived and from their talk I understood that it was impossible we had survived this, also the policeman said,: "Gee, those two were very lucky" because at the same time of our accident someone died in a similar way also with a truck and a motorbike.


I did not realize very well what had happened because I could not see my wounded leg, and thought I had just sprawled my ankle, when I heard the medics talk about Gent ( a mayor city in Belgium, translator note) and amputation.


I first thought they were talking about my husband. Well, then we went into the ambulance, photos were taken, (a true nightmare) operation, intensive care, and blood.


When later I inquired with my doctor what all the numbers meant (I had remembered them)  he told me that I had lost half of my blood, and had to be glad that I was still alive.  How it is possible that I remained conscious apart from the NDE I do not know, even the doctors do not understand and I ask myself no questions about this any longer.


When the other day I was allowed to move and saw my husband I got a laughing fit, but really a very strong one, I lasted for two hours, and the nurses only worsened it when they asked what was wrong, because I didn't know , and still don't know.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    11.07.2002

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Accident

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Increase

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  Felt myself slip away but did not leave my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I only know I heard my husband cursing then a bang, somersaults, then black and the experience, then full consciousness and pain.  I didn't take long, 5 minutes at the most.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     I  met a woman in white that  held my hand but I do not know whether it was real or part of the NDE but she gave me a very calm feeling, when I regained consciousness she was gone.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Absolute bliss.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Death is not the end.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   zoekend

What is your religion now?      Moderate   niets

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Death holds no fear for me any longer. I put my earthly existence in the hands of the universe. Truth has been described in religion but religion is also the cause of many evils. I try to see the good in every human being, I do not kill animals anymore, for instance a spider, I put it gently outside.   I started searching for the how and why of the experience and learned a lot.  My life is now more focused on the helping of people through lived experiences.   I do not worry much longer about earthly joys but find my satisfaction in meditation, spirituality and the small things that can do much good, like a smile.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I did not know what had happened to me, and thought they would declare me a lunatic.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Heightened  intuition.  Just knowing things , it is hard to explain.  Like,  'I already knew this' without ever having seen it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The words  "go back, it is not yet your time, your children still need you."    The realization that I was still alive and was howling with pain.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Understanding and lack of understanding. In  the hospital they said it was due to blood loss, that I hallucinated

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      It was an inexplicable feeling for those that have not experienced it, and it is just wonderful that I have been allowed to experience it.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tamara_v_ndelike.html