{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tabitha_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Tabitha B NDE 3403","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tabitha B NDE 3403  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tabitha B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1344 Tabitha B NDE 3403  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I hope this makes sense.  It was about eight or so.  I was going to take a shower and make some coffee.  I decided to call my friend Jessica because she was supposed to stop by, and I was going to make enough for her too. I remember taking off my shirt, and dialing her name. I guess my seizure started then in my hallway outside of my bathroom.  I didn't have any warning, no aura. I always have an aura before a seizure.  Jessica said I didn't say anything on the phone so she got worried and came over.  I was still seizing when she got there.  She said I was sweating profusely and it was very violent.  She called my fiancé Brandon, and my neighbor Dave to come help because she wasn't sure what to do.  I was going in and out of consciousness having seizures minutes apart with postictal activity.  My seizures were continuous so I was taken to the hospital to be treated. That is a combination of what I was told and what I could piece together. 
  					  
  					  During that mess, I remember looking up and seeing my fiancé staring at me holding my head.  I couldn't understand what he was saying, but he was crying.  I could feel what he was saying. I remember feeling what Jessica and Dave too.  They weren't close to me. Dave was repulsed.  I remember him feeling weak he denies this by the way. Jessica was cold and scared maybe. She denies that too.  The emotion was so dark and so moving that it was beautiful in its own still way.  I was feeling an enormous amount of pressure and sharp pain, and something happened the stillness went away.  I was hurting like I could feel what was going on. I never remember my seizures, so I let go, I just let go.  The stillness came back.  I got up to comfort Brandon, my fiance.  I wanted to tell him that I was fine.  When I did, I saw myself choking. I wasn't choking myself like my nightmares.  I was just choking I couldn't breathe.  I was on top of myself watching myself and all these shapes were moving like people or animals around me.  I wanted to go back inside, because I was worried about Brandon. He was so sad. I could feel his worry and sadness, but I couldn't feel my own. There was this plasma thing between me and me.  I guess I fell through it I don't know. Then I went back to feeling everything in my body.  All the pressure, tension, and pain. I guess I passed out again. The next thing I remember is waking up in the hospital.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'Monday 26, 2007'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    'I have epilepsy, but I normally don't have seizures.  In fact, with medication I thought it was impossible to have such a violent attack.'  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I guess so.  If my seizures don't stop I can enter status epileptics which is the constant state of a seizure or a seizure induced coma.   I know people die from the damage of seizures, but since medicated I haven't had one as bad as the one I had on Monday.  In addition, even when I had them years ago before my diagnosis I never experienced the afterlife thing.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was staring at myself on top of myself, but able to feel Brandon too.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was staring at myself on top of myself, but able to feel Brandon too.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     That might be the nature of the seizures though.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     guess so.  The way I remember things in proportion is impossible for it to have actually happened.  Colors were brighter. The lines fuzzy. The feeling was so overwhelming, I could've had my eyes shut and see the same things.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember hearing anything.  II could just feel it.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Well these shapes were running all over the plane.  They were light and dark, I guess.  I wasn't afraid of them.  It was like leaves in a windstorm, but bigger and shaped like people/animals.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt everything from other people, but I felt overwhelmingly balanced I guess. I felt good and bad.  I felt like I was a part of everything. That's dumb I know.  I just can't describe it any other way.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Kind of.  I guess.  When I was watching Brandon cry I saw my parents cry, my dad especially.  I saw a lot of sadness and joy, but not mine.  Theirs.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Whatever exists is much greater than me.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Same as above.  I'm just very unnerved.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I guess I felt a part of everything.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes stopped talking to a lot of people close to me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I don't really know. It's almost like I don't have the words to describe or anything to compare the sensation to.  It also makes me uncomfortable, but very peaceful at the same time.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     don't know.  I might be losing my mind.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of them

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    I guess so.  I mean on movies I guess, but I thought it was bullshit.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I guess so.  I mean on movies I guess, but I thought it was bullshit.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Experience was definitely real    It has been a couple of days I'm confused.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It has been a couple of days I'm confused.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Medication for my epilepsy    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tabitha_b_nde.html