{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sylvia_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Sylvia D NDE 4278","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sylvia D NDE 4278  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sylvia D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2105 Sylvia D NDE 4278  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was not expected to live. As soon as the aneurysm ruptured, I knew something was terribly wrong. The pain was so severe, and my condition worsened very rapidly. I was at first aware of the seriousness of my condition until I lost consciousness. 

I was then in a very intense, bright light. I am uncertain of the timeline and order of events, but at some point, I was with my deceased grandmother. She was in a field picking green beans, and I was with her. The light almost felt like a very hot summer day, but I felt drawn into this light, a part of the light. There was no pain, no fear, only a feeling of warmth, peace, love, and serenity. It was so wonderful that I wanted to remain in that light. I was aware of others with me, but only recognized my recently deceased mother. She was in a gown of white, I could see her and I reached to touch her but she remained out of my reach. I was told I could not stay, that it was not my time; I don't know who said it, it was as if by telepathy. 

Next, I was aware of waking and being angry that I could not stay in that light. I could hear people talking; I could hear my sister calling my name. I immediately told her that I was going back into the light and I loved her and wanted her to take care of my two children. My next memory is of severe pain, horrible pain.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'November 28, 1999'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I had suffered a ruptured aneurysm in my brain, with a hemorrhage and swelling. I was given a fifty percent chance of survival, and was on life support for several days.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I'm not really sure, I wasn't aware of time. In my best memory, I arrived at the hospital and was writhing and screaming with pain. Then came the event, then the pain.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything seemed to be sharper as in acuity. I am very near-sighted and I was able to see without aid of glasses or lenses.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't really recall. When I was told I could not stay, it was spoken into my mind.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     At some point I saw my deceased grandfather in my room, standing in the corner. I also saw my deceased grandmother in a field of green beans. I saw my deceased mother floating just in front of me out of my reach.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   An extremely intense bright light, much brighter than the sun.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in a beautiful field of green.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A feeling of warmth, love, happiness, and serenity, without pain.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I did not have my life flash before my eyes. I just recall being informed that I could not stay and that it was not my time yet. I was angry and upset. The experience helped me to not fear death anymore.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     Not a distinct physical boundary, but I was trying to reach out to my mother, but I could not reach her.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist Experience

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe God kept me here so that I and my children could be baptized, I try to show love to others as much as possible.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe God kept me here so that I and my children could be baptized, I try to show love to others as much as possible.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I just felt a sense of a better understanding of life, and definitely a sense of a higher power.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more open to people than before, I love so much more, and easier. I realize what a gift life is, but an even greater gift awaits when this life ceases. I had not been baptized, but I am now.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Somewhat difficult, unable to fully describe the extreme feeling of peace and serenity.  It was a feeling of love that surpasses understanding. The light so luminous that I felt as if I was not only in it but also a part of it. It was something I had never felt before.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have dreams now, usually about someone who passes away.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of calmness, peace and no pain was wonderful. Also, seeing my mother was very comforting, I missed her and wanted so much to be with her. When she died, she had lost a great deal of weight. She appeared vibrant, healthy and happy.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my sister about it as soon as I was conscious and able to speak. Her reaction was to tell me not to leave her. We now have a closer relationship with each other and with God.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have only heard about NDE mostly on television, not any personal accounts.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real because I had never felt anything like that before, nor since. My whole body seemed to tingle, and I still recall the sense of peace and of not being alone.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is hard to explain why I believe, I just do. Things occurred sort of in a sequence, as if planned somehow.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Just that I believe in God, the Father, Jesus the Son, and His Helper, the Holy Spirit. I believe God allowed me to see and return to share my experience with others.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sylvia_d_nde.html