{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sylvianne_r_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Sylvianne R Possible NDE 5060","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sylvianne R Possible NDE 5060  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sylvianne R Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2659 Sylvianne R Possible NDE 5060  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was suffering from a herniated disc and was waiting for surgery.

That night, I woke up to an intense, sharp pain that was spreading all over my body. It was unbearable.  I was going from the top of my skull down to the tips of my toes and fingers. My breathing wasn't normal. All of a sudden, I felt lighter and I realized I was looking down at my husband, who was sleeping on the bed in the bedroom. I observed all the details in the bedroom, including what position my husband was sleeping in.

I felt myself leaving, as if I were being sucked in towards a tunnel that was illuminated with a bright yellow light (like the one you can see on a summer morning while watching a sunrise). I was floating. I felt good - and mainly I wasn't feeling pain anymore - it was all gone. I rested while I was floating, I felt marvelously great. I couldn't see myself floating in the light (although I could feel it happening,) but I understood it to be my Self. When I looked down, I saw my husband sleeping and I saw my body beside him. Seeing this, suddenly I panicked and didn't want to be sucked into the tunnel. I started screaming that my two children, including my six months old baby, needed me. I fought while I was floating and felt divided between wanting to stay down on Earth and wanting to go up into the tunnel. I was upset with the situation. A voice told me I should go back and take care of my family, that I still had many things to accomplish and learn - that things would be different now. I would have a new strength that would be invincible. I had a life-review and witnessed all the important moments of my life.

Then, I came back down. I was back in my cold body and once again could feel pain. I didn't want to wake up my husband. With a superhuman effort, I proceeded to quietly get up and leave the bedroom. My feet brushed the floor, my body was freezing cold and I was sweating warm beads of sweat. I walked, shaking. Then, little by little, my body warmed up; I could feel the cold floor under my feet and my sweat was cold. I analyzed what had just happened to me and could sense that, indeed, I had acquired an inner strength that would allow me to live a morally independent life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  26 JANVIER 1988

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The way we view space and time didn't exist.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was more intense, more precise, and clearer.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a luminous tunnel, filled with happiness.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I didn't meet them, but I heard them - many voices at the same time.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a very strong yellow light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       One emotion I felt was that I had found a place I had forgotten. I had the impression of being back 'at home' - but it just wasn't the right time to go there. The mixed emotions upon meeting souls I knew but who had to stay in the tunnel. (I would have had to go forward to meet them.) I felt emotions of warmth, happiness and wellbeing.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I didn't learn anything from seeing my past. However, a voice was telling me to stay on Earth, since I still had experiences that, even though they would be difficult to go through, would allow me to learn and grow. It was telling me I hadn't accomplished all I had to do on Earth. It was telling me that I'd be facing difficulties alone, but that this newfound strength would stay with me for the rest of my life.  I can acknowledge that, indeed, all of that has been true since the time of my experience.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had the feeling I was back to where I had been before being born.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Futile, useless and meaningless relationships now seem like a waste of time to me. My experience separates me from many other people, and in general, I am more isolated because of it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was hard to describe the light, the emotions, the duration of the experience, and the intense feeling of wellbeing.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I already knew how to read the future using cards. Since January 26, 1988, I feel in constant contact with the world beyond us - protected, guided and helped by angels. My sensory condition is more developed.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I talked about it right away and still talk about it when the opportunity arises. I describe it to people as an ordinary experience that they will have someday, too, to try to help them feel better.  Since then, people from my professional and family circle confide in me without my asking them anything. I listen and give them advice as best as I can. My goal is to guide them.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read a book, by Raymond Moody, I think. It helped me to remain calm, free of panic, and to stay focused during the experience.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew right away that the experience was definitely real. I knew I wasn't dreaming, since from above, I saw things exactly the way they actually had been in the bedroom. Also, the fact that I was absolutely pain-free while I was out of my body, and then the feelings in my frozen stiff body when I came back, also contribute to my being sure that the experience was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still see the experience as definitely real.  Since then, I have done some research about this subject. What I went through confirms this reality.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       This experience changed my life. It was a second birth.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Ask if this experience led later on to feelings of isolation from friends and family.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sylvianne_r_possible_nde.html