{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sylvia_d_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Sylvia D NDE-Like 2652","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sylvia D NDE-Like 2652  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sylvia D NDE-Like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  						1156  Sylvia D NDE-Like  2652  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					 I still remember very clearly what happened. I went to sleep, just like any other night, and while sleeping I don't know what time it was because, I remember I woke up, and saw a tunnel, made of light, that went from the floor to the ceiling of my bedroom in a corner of the room. I closed my eyes again. I guess I continued sleeping for a few minutes. Then I felt as if there was something or somebody pushing me to get up from bed from behind me. As I open my eyes, again I could see the light and started floating outside my body like hovering on top the bed. I could still see the light tunnel, my room was completely dark, but I could see the dresser and a little TV on it, but I thought I was awake. I was forcing myself to see the clock on my night table to see the time but that area was black. So I was hovering on top of the bed and I was looking around, and trying to see myself in the mirror on top of the dresser but was also black. I couldn't see my reflection in it, which I thought it was strange, but I was not afraid because I thought I was awake. Then while I was hovering on top of the bed, I was afraid of hitting the ceiling fan with my head.

I was very confused as why usually if I look outside the window between the venetian blinds and the window wall I could see the light outside, but not this night, it was very dark.

So I was hovering and I could not see anything on my bed but I could faintly hear my husband snoring.

Suddenly I was very sad because I knew that I had to go somewhere, but I didn't know were. I thought of telling my husband I was leaving and that's when I was pulled into the light tunnel. Standing there facing the ceiling I was very afraid, not being able to go through the ceiling, but a comforting feeling came over me, and I went through this tunnel that looked like a sewer. Then very fast through the sky at night. It was very dark but I could see the darkness with the light that I had in me.

I got to a place, very dark, that was like a border or something and there were other people waiting also in line besides me. I looked to my left and I saw a little boy, he also looked at me, and we waited. I could hear what I thought was one of my aunts saying to get my father, so I waited and my father came walking from the darkness. I could not see him well because of his light. Two groups of people on each side that stayed behind surrounded him. They looked like white ghostly figures of white smoke but I could tell they were people. When I think about that, I think they were my aunts and uncles. My father looked at me and smiled, turned around, and was going back. I felt I wanted to stay with him. I was screaming to wait that I wanted it to stay with him. I heard that my father told somebody that it wasn't my time. At that moment, I felt pressure, on my chest like a giant rubber band holding me, not to cross. I was pulled backwards, I was falling, and I was regressed into my body. I opened my eyes when I was to enter my body for a few seconds. I could see my room, and then continued sleeping. When I woke up, I felt so relax, like the best restful night of my life. When I told my husband what happened, he said I was dreaming. I know better. I never had a dream like that one before.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 March 1993  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         None  Other This happened during the night while sleeping  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   The consciousness I would say was normal the alertness, not so much, like everyday alertness I could think of a million things altogether, seems to be. Then it seemed limited of how many things at one time. Maybe it was because I was surprised and confused at was happening to me.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the whole time, while I was hovering on top of my bed I was thinking how good I felt floating there. I'm always fighting to lose weight, but my body didn't weight anything and I felt no cold or hot or heavy or hungry. I was just there awake and I could think of anything, just like always.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I notice that in everyday vision, I can see what is going around me even if I'm looking at one thing in front of me, and then I could see just one thing at the time.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    For example my husband snoring sounded very far away even as I was hovering on top of him. I felt I had to force myself to hear.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     After I went through my ceiling this was a tunnel that looked like a sewer. I didn't like that, it was like grey stuff and wet, around the walls, disgusting, but I went very fast. I came out to this space like an astronaut that was very peaceful, but very, very fast, until I got to where my dad was. It really looked like I went a far distance.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My father and relatives, didn't communicate with words.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Only the tunnel, and around me and my father.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Curious, very sad when I realized that I was alone and I had to go somewhere, even though I didn't know I was dead yet. Afraid to be able to go head first through my ceiling. Happy to see my dad, sad to have to leave there.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Jewish  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Jewish  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared this with my sister-in-law.  She agrees with me, because she told my nephew gets out of his body when he sleeps, and my father sent him back, upset, and told him, he shouldn't do that, that other spirits can get into his body, and then he wanted to be able to come back. My nephew asked me if his grandpa, my father, didn't need glasses over there, and I said I also saw him without glasses, my father always needed glasses to read.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sylvia_d_ndelike.html