{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 4795 4543","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v2_constitution_and_rules_1884.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V2 Constitution and Rules 1884","mylang":"de"}
OOlllltitutiOlI ana Rulea.
VII.
CONSTITUTION AND RULES.
1884.
TITLE.
33!J
I.-The name of the Society is-The Society ~or Psychical Research.
OBJECTS.
2.-The objects for which this Society is established are :-
(a) To unite students and inquirers in an organised body, with
the view of promoting the investigation of certain obscure
phenomena, inclu~ng those commonly known as· Psychical,
Mesmeric, or Spiritualistic; and of giving publicity to the
results of such research.
(b) To print, sell, or otherwise distribute publications on
Psychical and kindred subjects; to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects by correspondence and
otherwise; to collect and arrange facts respecting them;
to open Libraries, Reading-rooms, and other suitable
Premises and Offices; and generally to do all such other
things as may be conducive to the attainment of the a.bove
objects.
N OTE.-To prevent misconception, it is l/,We expressly stated that
Membersltip of tlte Society does not imply the acceptance of
any particular e:x:planation of lIte phenomena investigated,
nor any beliefas to tlie operation, in the phylical world, of
forces otlter than those recognised by PltY8ical Science.
GOVERNMENT.
3.-The Society shall be governed by a Council consisting of
twenty-four Members.· The Council shall elect from amongst the
Members of the Society a. President, who shall be President of the
Society, and an ez-ojJicio Member of the Council and of all Committees
and who shall retire· from office ye.o;.rly at the first Meeting of the
Digitized by Coogle
334 (JonBtittttion ana Rulea.
Council after tbe Annual General Meeting of the Members of the
Society. He shall, however, be eligible for re-election, and shall be
deemed as retaining his offices until he shall have been re-elected or his
successor appointed. The Council sha.ll also from time to time elect
Vice-Presidents, who shall be e:rro.fficio Honorary Members of the
Society, and shall have the privilege of being p~ent at any of Lhe
Meetings of the Council.
CONSTITUTION.
4.-The Society shall consist of-
(a) MEMBERS, who shall contribute not less than two guineas
annually, or a single payment of twenty guineas, and who
shall be eligible to any of the offices of the Society; and
shall be entitled to vote in the election of the Governing
Council and at all meetings of the Society; to use its
Reading-rooms and Libraries; to borrow books from its
Libraries; and to the free receipt of anyjournal, transactions,
or periodical publication which may be issued by the Council.
(b) ASSOCIATES, who shall contribute. not less than one guinea.
annually, or a single payment of ten guineas, and who shall
be entitled. to attend all Meetings of the Society, except such
as are convened for business purposes only, and to the free
receipt of the ordinary pu~lished Proceedings of the Society;
and shall have free acc~ss to its Reading~rooms. and Libraries_
Members and Associates shall be entitled to purchase all the
publications of the Society at half their published price.
5.-All Members and Associates of the Society shall be elected by
the Council. Every candidate for admission shall be required to give
such references as shall be approved by the Council, unless he shall
have been proposed in writing by two or more Members or Associates,
who, on his behalf, and by his authority, shall aSsent to the Constitution
and Rules of the Society, and consent to abide and be governed by
them, one of whom shall have certified in writing, from personal'
knowledge of him, that he is a fit person. for admission. Every such
certificate having been read and approved at a M~eting of the Council,
the election s~all be proceeded with. The election to be by ballot, and
one black ball in six to exclude. The Council shall cause the result to
be made known to the candidate, who, if elected, shall be furnished.
Digitized by Coogle
Constitution alld RuU:'s.
with a certificate of election and a copy of the "Constitution and
Rules."
6.-The subscription shall become due immediately on election, and
afterwards in advance on the first day of January in each year. In
the case of any Member or Associate being elected on or after the 1st
October, his subscription shall be accepted as for the following year.
'Any Member or Associate who is more than three mo~ths in arrear
and who fails to pay after two applications in writing, shall be liable
to be struck off the list.
7.-1£ any Member or Associate desire to resign, he shall give
written notice thereof to the Secretary. He shall, however, be lia.hle
for all subscriptions which shall then remain unpaid.
HONORARY MEMBERS AND HONORARY ASSOCIATES.
8.-The Council may invite any person who
(i) is either distinguished for kIiowledge or experience in Psychical
Research or otherwise eminerit,to become an Honorary
Member of the Society; or any person who
(ii) has rendered services to the Society,
to become an Honorary Associate, such person to be eligible
.for re-election anm:ally.
Honorary Members and Associates shall have the privileges without
the obligations attaching to Associates.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
9.-The Council shall have power to elect as Corresponding
Members, who shall be on the same footing as Honorary Members,
persons able and willing to for,ward the objects of the Society. They
shall be eligible for re-election annually.
GENERAL MEETINGS.
lO.-The Anniversary or Annual General Meeting of the lfembers
of the Society shall be held in the month of January, on a day to be
:tixed by the Council, and of which not less than twenty-one days' notice
shall ?e given. The business of such Anniversary Meeting shall be to
. receiTe the Annual Report of the Council; and Statement of Assets and
Liabilities, to elect New Members of Council, and to discuss questions
on the Rules and management. A Member shall not moot any question
336 Oonlltitution and Bule8.
on the Rules or management of the Society unless he shall have given
at least fourteen days' notice thereof to the Secretary, but amendments
to any motion may be brought forward without notice, provided they
relate to the same subject. The Secretary shall give fleven days' notice
to every Member of all questions of which such notice shall haTe been
given to him.
ll.-Special General Meetings of the Members of the Society may
be convened by the Council, or by the President, or by the Secretary on
the requisition of ten Members, and notice of such Meetings, stating the
objects, shall be given at least seven days previously, and no other
business shall be entered upon at such Meetings than that stated in the
notice.
12.-All General Meetings of the Members of the Society shall be
convened by circular to the Members.
PROCEEDINGS IN GENERAL MEE'l'ING.
13.-The quorum necessary to constitute a General Meeting shall
be ten.
H.-The President of the Society shall preside (JX-ojficio; in his
absence anyone of the Vice-Presidtlnts who may at the same time be &
Member of the Society; or should no such Vice-President be present
a Member of Council. In their absence the Meeting shall nominate
its Chairman.
15.-If within one hour from the time appointed for the Meeting &
quorum is not present the Meeting shall stand adjourned for one week.
At the adjourned Meeting the number present for the time being ahall
constitute the legal number.
16.-All questions shall, at a General Meeting, be determined by &
majority of the llembers present, except in the election of Members of
Council at the Annual General Meeting, for which election voting
papers shall be accepted. The Chairman shall have a second or casting
vote at all General Meetings of the Society.
17.-Voting papers for the election of Members of Council shall be
sent to all Members of the Society with the notice of the Meeting, and
shall be deposited with the Secretary of the Society, at least twenty-
four hours prior to the Meeting. They shall be duly signed by the
Member voting, and be enclosed in envelopes securely fastened and
•
Digitized by Coogle
Constitution and Rules. 337
marked on the outside" voting paper," and enclosed in a letter sent to
t1.te Secretary and signed by the Member voting, and they shall not be·
opened till so directed by the Chairman at the Meeting.
ELECTION AND BUSINESS OF COUNCIL.
18.-The Council shall· consist of eighteen members, elected
annually at a General Meeting, and of other members co-opted from
time to time by the Council, provided that the whole number shall not
exceed twenty-four. The names of persons for the first time proposed
to be co-opted on the Council sha.ll be brought forward at one Meeting
of the Council, and shall be sent round to all members of Council
previous to its next Meeting, when'the voting shall be by. ballot, and a
unanimous vote of those present shall ~e requisite to carry the election.
The members co-opted from time to time by the Council shall cease to
hold office at the Annual Meeting at which new members are elected,
but may be co-opted a.fresh at the First Meeting of the Council after
such Annual 14eeting.
19.-0f the eighteen elected Members of the Council of the Society
so appointed, six or whatever number may be required to. reduce the
number of elected Members to twelve shall go out of office at the time
appointed for election of Council in the year 1883 ; one other third, at
the time appointed for such election in the year 1884, and the remainder
at the time appointed for such election in the year 1885, and the
vacancies so made shall be filled by fresh elections. All Members of
Council from time to time elected at the annual elections shall go out
of office at the time appointed for the annual election in the third
following year. The Secretary shall e\'ery year, at least twenty-one
days before the ensuing Annual General Meeting,send to all the Members
:>f the Society a list of the retiring Members of Council, and a statement
whether all, and if not, which of them are candidates for re-election. In
all cases the retiring Members shall be deemed as remaining in office
until they shall have been re·elected or their successors appointed.
20.-Any Member of the Society who shall have paid up all
subscriptions due from him, including that for t,he current year,
shall be eligible for election or re-election, as a Member of Council,
provided he shall have been nominated in writing by a Member of th'e
Society, duly qualified, and such nomination shall have been forwarded
to the Secretary fourteen days before the time of holding the Annual
2 C
Digitized by Coogle
338 .Oumtitution alia Rules.
General Meeting. A list of the persons so nominated shall be forwarded
to all the Members of the Society, at least ten days prior to the
meeting. In case more persons, duly qualified, shall be nominated for
election at any Annual General Meeting than are required to fill up the
vacant places of those retiring by rotation, then such persons shall be
preferred and declared elected as shall obtain the highest number of
votea.
21.-The Council shall at their first Meeting after every Annual
General Meeting, elect a President as provided for in Rule 3. At the
.same Meeting they shall also elect a Treasurer and Auditor, and such
-other officers as they may deem expedient, who shall retire from office
.annually, at the same time and under the same conditions all provided
for in the case of the President by Rule 3. They shall from time to time
-elect Vice-Presidents, Members of the Society, and Honorary Members,
as provided for by Rules 3, 5, and 9. They shall have power to appoint a
salaried Secretary, and such other paid officers, assistants, and servants
.as they may deem necessary, and to determine their duties. All the
appointments made by the Conncil, the Council may at their pleasure
revoke.
22.-The Council shall elect persons duly qualified to fill up any
vacancies which may, from time to time, occur in their own body; and
any such persons so elected shall go out of office at the time when the
term of office of the persons in wholle places they were respectively ap-
pointed would have expired.
23.-The Council shall meet monthly, unless otherwise determined.
An attendance book shall be kept, and signed by each Member of the
Council at the time of entering the Council-room. In all Meetings of
the Council four shall be a quorum; all questions shall be decided by
vote, and a decision of the majority shall, except where otherwise
provided by these Rules, be the decision of the Meeting; the Chairman.
to have, in addition to his own, a casting vote. The Chair shall be
occupied by the President; or in his absence by a Vice-President who
is a subscribing Member of the Society, or should no such Vice-President
be present, by a Member of Council chosen by the Meeting•
.
24.-The Council shall have power to appoint for special purposes
Committees composed of Members of the Society or other suitable
perrons. Every Committee ahall report its proceedings to the Council
Digitized by Coogle
Oon8titution and Rules. 339
through the Chairman or Secretary of such Committee, one of whom
must be a Member of Council, and no report shall be published without
the sanction of the Council.
25.-The Council shall have power, by a majority of three-fourths
of the Members present, in a Special Meeting of their own body duly
convened for the purpose, and of which, and of the objects thereof, not
less than seven days' notice shall have been given to each Member of
the Council, to add to, suspend, or alter any of the rules, regulations,
and bye-laws of the Society; such alteration to be in force only until
the next ensuing Anniversary Meeting, unless it he then confirmed
by the vote of a majority of the Members of the Society there
present.
26.-The Coutlcil shall have power to employ the funds of .the
Society, including any funds obtained by donation, bequest, or
otherwise, in any manner consistent with the objects thereof, and they
may invest a!ly surplus funds in such securities and in such manner
as they may d~m proper ; and they may sell, employ, or re-invest the
said funds.
27.-The Council may establish Branches, and Local or Provincial
Societies, in any part of Great Britain or elsewhere, under such regula.-
tions, and subject to such limitations as they may deem fit.
28.-The Council shall have power from time to time to co-operate
with, or accept the alliance of, other Societies, having similar objects in
view.
AUDITORS.
29.-There shall be two Auditors-one chosen by the Members
()f the Society, and one chosen by the Members of the Council. These
shall audit the accounts of the Society, and report thereon to the
Council. The auditors shall be empowered to examine into the par-
ticulars of all expenditure of the funds of the Society, where they
.shall see occasion; and may report their opinion upon the whole or
any part of it, whether it has been expended in accordance with the
<:<>nstitution of the Society.
FINANCE.
30.-The Council shall cause true acoounts to be kept of all sums of
money received and paid, and shall submit the accounts of the Society,
with ~ statement of the assets and liabilities, to the Annual General
Meeting.
Digitized by Coogle
340 Oonstitution and Buld.
PROPERTY AND FuNDS.
31.-Every paper accepted by the Society for reading or pnblication
shall become the absolute property of the Society, unless the author's
rights be specially reserved.
32.-The property of the Society shall be invested in Trustees
chosen by the Council. The Trustees shall be eligible to any other
office in the Society.
NOTICES.
33.-The posting of a notice to the registered address of a Member
or' Associate shall be deemed service of a notice. Members or
Associates residing abroad shall name a. place of address in the United
K.in~tdom. In default of such address, the posting of a notice in a.
conspicuous place at the Offices of the Society shall be deemed to be a
notice.
34.-A notice forwarded by post to the Secretary of a Branch or
Allied Society shall be deemed a. notice to the Members of the Society
of which he is Secretary.
INTERPRETATION OF RULES.
35.-In the Interpretation of these Rules words importing the
singular number only, include the plural, and words importing the
masouline gender only, include the feminine~
lI\'ationall'reu Agenoy. Limited, 13. Whitefdara Street. 10.
Di9ili:ed by Coogle
