{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sw_n_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"SW N Possible NDE 2651","mylang":"de"}
          	        SW N Possible NDE 2651  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					SW N Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3632 SW N Possible NDE 2651  					  				  			        			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

I was playing with my son and sat on a wasp.  I started to have an instant reaction and did not know at the time that I had an allergy. My son pointed out the hives immediately appearing on my legs. I knew I needed help and immediately phoned my neighbor. Fortunately, she was home.  We lived in the country, so rushed to the nearest doctor.  

On the way I was starting to lose consciousness.  I knew I was in the car, but I had no sense of time or reality. I had peripheral vision and could see the trees and sky on the sides of the road speeding by.  In front of me was a long tunnel of bright, yet soft, very white light. Apparently I was talking, but I don't remember.  I was saying that I didn't want to go to the party.   

By the time we got to the doctor I had regained a more conscious awareness.  The doctor shot me full of adrenalin and told me my blood pressure had been 'down in your boots.'  I was very lucky to be alive. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Summer 1988  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Allergic reaction       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Anaphylactic shock.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was not conscious of most of what was occurring around me, but I felt a great clarity of vision. Visually things seemed bright and clear, although I couldn't see anything directly in front of me except a tunnel of light. It was a consciousness on a completely different plane, suspended from the immediate reality of the every day world.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think it was in the middle of the experience that I remember vividly the peripheral vision and the tunnel.  My thoughts seemed clear, but I don't really know what I was thinking.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Time seem suspended, although I was aware of being in a moving vehicle.   The outside world was moving at regular speed, while there was no sense of time during the experience.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Peripheral vision only, tunnel of light in center vision.  Bright light, intense but not glaring or blinding. Colors were sharp, true, and somewhat bright. No depth perception.  Peripheral vision only, tunnel of light in centre vision  Bright light, intense but not glaring or blinding. Colours were sharp, true, and somewhat bright. No depth perception.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Lost all sense of hearing. It was very quiet and serene.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I saw it and was on the verge of entering the tunnel, but I did not pass into it.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Curiosity, some uncertainty, unalarmed. I felt quiet.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     My religious beliefs have not changed.  I have a greater sense of spirituality though.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     My religious beliefs have not changed.  I have a greater sense of spirituality though.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt a sense of calmness.          After the experience, I thoroughly believe in the white light and have no fear of death.  Thinking of the tunnel and the light is peaceful.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have no idea if this is related, but I did experience another dimension, which was also brought about by a physical response to illness.  It involved an altered sense of reality, visual manifestations, a pathway, a tunnel, conscious decisions, and profoundly affected my life.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole calmness of it all.  I was more curious than afraid. I felt I understood something a little better, but I did not know what.  I am not afraid of death now.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I don't remember when I shared it and people mostly say "oh yeah? That's cool", type of response.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard about it, seen some things on TV shows etc.  This did not affect my experience.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was very confident in my memory of the experience.  It is still very clear to me. I can remember the sensations easily.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I did have another experience that involved a pathway and a tunnel, however it was a different kind of tunnel than the first.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sw_n_possible_nde.html