{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sw_nde.html","mytitle":"SW NDE 65","mylang":"de"}
          	        SW NDE 65  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					SW NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						308  SW NDE  65  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 During a routine tonsillectomy, I bled out, lost pulse for 4 minutes, and turned blue. I was resuscitated. I recalled the experience of going through misty, beautiful blue veils towards a beautiful light at the end of the tunnel-like place.

It was fun and I liked it, and I believed God was talking to me, and I wanted to cross over through the last veil so much, but was told by the Voice that I could not, that it was too early for me. I was disappointed but knew I had to go back.

I have never been afraid of death since then. But one thing that has plagued me is that I was told of my purpose, but I cannot remember it. I want to find that out.

This happened in the fifties. When I first read of near death experiences, I was 16, came across a magazine article on it, and felt as though I was handed a wonderful gift: others were here who knew.

I believe it has changed me in fundamental ways that are inexplicable to most people. I am highly sensitive and very attuned to the emotional and mystical content of life. I watch people running around thinking that money and objects and power over others and using people is okay, and I'm just not into that. Which has made me feel sometimes like a visitor to this world, with attendant difficulties.

After the NDE, doctors ran tests on my mental abilities and nothing was wrong; no brain dysfunction. This has been bemusing to me.

I have a family, I work, and I function all right, but my core being is more concerned with spirit and soul than the 3D world.

I hope this makes sense. I'm trying to not be too wordy. I'd be happy to write more about it.


Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1958

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death My pulse was gone for 4 minutes...I'm not sure what you mean.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I felt perfectly awake.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time as we usually know it was irrelevant.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    A Voice, but it wasn't a sound as we usually know sound. It was more like music. Sort of. I can't explain this.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Beautiful blues, glowing light, glimmering, misty, shimmering.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     People I would meet in my life.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was very bright but did not hurt at all to see it. It was entrancing.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace, serenity, curiosity, happiness, contentment, freedom.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     This would take a lot of space to write about, but I would say it has been very accurate.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     I crossed several boundaries, but not the last one. I remember answering questions in order to cross each boundary. Although some I went through without having to answer questions.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was told I had to go back, and I was disappointed.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Lutheran

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I was 9, and after that, I went back to church (we went every Sunday) and wondered about everything, whereas before I didn't really care enough to question it; and certainly not to the extent I did. I thought religion was kind of weird after that for a long time, and was mad at it as a kid.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I was very young, and while I could describe it in visual terms, describing the emotional content has always been difficult.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I haven't always used them, though.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I wish I could remember parts I forgot.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    People think it is interesting. I don't tell that many people.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Reiki attunements. Being in love.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Ask if anyone has done any artwork depicting the NDE scene. I'd like to see those.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sw_nde.html