{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1suzanne_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Suzanne F NDE 171","mylang":"de"}
          	        Suzanne F NDE 171  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Suzanne F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						613  Suzanne F NDE  171  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 This is my near death experience. It was many years ago. I was in the hospital in Chicago. I was dying of blood clots in my lungs from smoking, and taking birth control pills. We did not have the information that we have now. I was in great pain and the doctor on call at the hospital's emergency department thought I had pleurisy. I was sent home. Hours went by and I could not breathe.


I had a friend drive me back to the hospital. I told the attendant at the desk to admit me, but she would not. I then sat in a chair in the emergency room and put my head on the shoulder of a stranger sitting next to me. I wanted to die due to the pain. When I woke up I was in a bed in the hospital.


Before I did awake, all I can remember is I was in a wide tunnel. The light was very bright. I was calling out for my mother. I could only whisper for her. Then a voice, very soothing and comforting! The voice said, "Don't talk, save your energy." I was awake and scared. I then called for my mother again. I remember it was hard for me to talk.


The voice got somewhat louder, and said the same thing to me; don't talk, save your energy. I noticed at the end of the tunnel, a tiny figure. Again, I tried to call for my mother, I heard the voice again, it went on for a long time. As I spoke the figure became bigger and bigger.


When I awoke, my mother was standing at the foot of my bed. I still wonder to this day if it was her voice, but the voice was a man's voice. There was no doctor in the room at the time I woke. I kept it to myself for years, because I didn't want anyone to think me crazy. Can you help me with this?

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1970

NDE Elements: 

  					At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Life threatening event, but not clinical death I HAD BLOOD CLOTTS IN MY LUNGS CLOSE TO MY HEART. I was in the hospital because I could not breathe.
  					
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      It seemed I was fully aware.

  					Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.   I thought I was dead and going to heaven.
  					
Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I was in the tunnel.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     In the beginning, no, but after a while I saw a very small figure, I could not describe if it was a man or a woman.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The tunnel was all light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I was searching for something, I was trying to get to the end of the tunnel. I saw a tiny figure at the end I kept hearing a voice. I thought it was God, telling me to stop talking save my energy.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

  					Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future.     If I didn't talk I could save my energy that was what the voice told me to do.
  					
The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I really feel different.  I want to be alone more, and I have dreams that I am in that are so real and vivid. I think, how can I dream about these people and events.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have ESP and very vivid dreams that are very real.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was that I had the experience. The worst part was I didn't know what or who the voice was for sure but I have my own opinions.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Only a few people.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I think you covered all of the important subjects.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1suzanne_f_nde.html