{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sybil_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Sybil S NDE 689","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sybil S NDE 689  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Sybil S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						214  Sybil S NDE  689  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It was winter in l986 and I had gone to bed as I normally do.  Sleep would not come.  I tossed and turned hoping to fall asleep and join my husband in a good winter's night sleep.  I was not asleep yet and I felt my heart pounding out of rhythm.  I had been diagnosed with mitral valve prolapse and I thought it was just another happening like those I had remembered having at other times.  Then suddenly my heart stopped.


I could feel my spirit come out of my body and I saw my body lying there as if asleep.  I was carried as if my angels, though I did not see them, far up into the heavens and at a great speed.  I was taken to a place surrounded by music.  It was like no music I have ever heard.  More beautiful than all the best music my ears have heard and it came from everywhere.


I stood there and suddenly I saw Jesus.  It was quite an awesome shock to be standing in His presence.  I was in such awe. I could not speak.  My eyes were fixed upon Him.  His hair was white like wool and hung down to His shoulders.  His skin was like brass without one wrinkle.  His eyes were like flames of fire and when He spoke, it was with great authority. Yet when He spoke it was kind and gentle and loving.  When He spoke, it sounded like thunder rolling across the North Carolina skies but much louder than any I had ever heard.  You would think I would have been afraid but I was not.  Quite the contrary.  I felt happy!  I felt so happy, a feeling like none other I had ever felt.


Then He told me to look and I saw a white cloud like form.  Inside the white background, I was shown my life from beginning to end but only the painful parts.  As He unfolded my life before me, He told me the reason all these bad things had happened and I understood every one of them.  The unusual thing was, His lips never moved.  It was as if His thoughts were sent directly to my mind and I saw and understood everything He told me.  Then He said.  'All the bad things are gone.  No more bad things are going to happen but you must go back because your work is not finished!'


I felt sad because I wanted to stay there with Him. I don't know if it was heaven or not, I just know I was the happiest person in the world.  He showed me briefly a city with lots of people. Green grass grew and children were running, laughing and playing.  Older men in white robes were teaching young children as if in a school.  Women were very busy getting ready for what looked like a great event.  They were all dressed in white as well.  Flowers bloomed and green trees with lots of fruit stood along a river of running water, like a rippling stream but larger.  Its water was clear as glass.  Such a site I saw.  Everyone was busy.  Even the air smelled sweet like a rose.  I was then send back to Earth.


I don't know how long I was gone but I remember my spirit going back inside my body for it was so, so cold.  So cold, it took me hours to get warm.  My heart was trying to get in rhythm and I was convulsing on the bed next to my husband.  I was shivering my body was so cold.


I was so happy I woke my husband because I had to tell someone.  I tried to tell him but all I could say was, 'I understand now!'  Of course brought from a deep sleep to wide awake, he had no idea what I was talking about.  He questioned me, asking me to slow down and tell him what was wrong but all I could say was, 'Don't you understand?  I understand!'  This left him wondering I suppose.


It took hours for my body to get warm. I figured my temperature to see how many degrees it had fallen.  It had fallen over six degrees.  I do know it had dropped at least six degrees.  I spoke with a coroner and he stated that in death, the body drops about two degrees or so per hour.  If this is true, then I had been gone a good bit of time.


You might think this is just another person's wild tale about an out of body experience.  Well it isn't.  I saw Jesus.  I know He is real.  I don't have to doubt.  I know!  I also know I was the happiest person alive at that moment.  I have never seen hell nor do I want to but I have seen Jesus and I have been to heaven.  You can think I am crazy but I am as sane as a person can be.  You might think it was a dream but your body temperature doesn't drop in a dream.


All I can tell you is Heaven is real.  There are people there and they are very busy getting ready for something really big.  I have seen Jesus and He spoke to me! 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    Winter of 1986

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No     None of the above   My heart simply stopped beating and I came out of my body.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very Alert. Very Conscious

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time stopped.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard Jesus speak to me.  I heard music that was the most beautiful I've ever heard.  I saw people busy doing things.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     No I was taken up into the heavens.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I met Jesus.  He revealed all my life before me.  He showed me other people who were busy getting ready for what seemed like a big event.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Beautiful place, I saw Jesus face to face. He spoke to me but His lips never moved.  It was mind to mind.  I heard Him speak and it sounded like thunder, but yet kind and loving.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I know my purpose in life.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Yes I learned why all the bad things happened and that there would be no more. I was told to come back and finish my work. My race had not been fulfilled.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Yes, very accurate.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     I was taken upward to one level far, far away from this atmosphere.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was sent back.  I wanted to stay there.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Even more determined to live a better life.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Psychic ability or ESP.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Worst part was coming back here.  Best part was meeting Jesus.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Yes, they want me to write a book.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      People automatically think people are not in their right mind having OBEs. This is far from the truth. People don't just say these things, they actually happen.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sybil_s_nde.html