{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1susanne_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Susanne S NDE 8251","mylang":"de"}
          	        Susanne S NDE 8251  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Susanne S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4318 Susanne S NDE 8251  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					At age 12, I was sking and trying to hold on to a forcefully spinning blue nylon tow rope going uphill.  The spiral spin caused the knotted scarf to become tighter and tighter around my neck until it asphyxiated me while I hung the entire way up the ski hill.  Trying to get the scarf loose caused me to let go of the rope and I was hung by my neck until reaching the top of the hill.  I do not know anyone who has survived a hanging and certainly not for that long period of time.  It was the 1970's and there were no safety shut-off mechanisms for the lift.  My head struck every pole on the way up the hill.  I remember the moment I lost consciousness.  I was lying on the ground after striking the booth with my head and body.  There was a small cut out hole in the booth where the rope went in and out of.   There was nobody at the booth.  

Then someone approached with great light.  I thought it was my Dad at first because I began to feel so much love and trust.  There were also two Beings with Him.  He held out his most beautiful hands.  These hands I will never forget how they looked and felt.  They lifted me up and carried me.  I call the two Beings 'Angels' and they wore what looked like workbooks. One book had the laces untied.  

I felt no pain, at peace, and my body was full of love.  The light filled me with answers that I was thinking and feeling. The communication between myself and the Beings was instant, complete, and without any confusion. The outer appearance was shown but quickly the inner beauty is seen and impresses much more so it became the focus at times.  We arrived to a place that appeared much like here.  We were met with others who looked official in knowledge.  They wore same eyes of cloaks.  They could not answer as to why I kept requesting to return.  Others arrived and also wore similar cloaks but different colors.  It seemed to require a higher and higher level answer for my request to return.  It was made known that they wished me to stay.  They glided as they walked.  It was so much like here just so beautiful.  I did not realize that they had me meet someone who seemed to have been called upon for very specific puropses.  He had me study his face.  I knew he communicated it was very important to study it as he showed me places that contained levels of knowlege.  Everything had a perfect system, design and purpose, which was understood. Despite being there longer and longer, I did not stop asking to go back.  This was despite the overwhelmingly beautiful love I felt. 

I requested to return again.   A hand reached through the mountains and clouds and touched me.  He who brought me, I call Jesus. It touched Jesus and me and gave me permission to go back.  I was made to understand that I would return with much pain but not to be frightened.  I agreed.  

Upon returning I saw the blood as I lay in the snow.  It took over 45 minutes for someone to get to the top of the hill.  My parents did not approach because they thought I was dead and disfigured.  My grandparents said no one should see their child like that.  They waited for a volunteer security guard to drive me to NY hospital.  there was no 911 or cell phones.  It was a blizzard and we had no car we were on foot.   I arrived at hospital with skin torn off my neck, bleeding, and lumps on the sides of my temporal lobes of my head.  The nuns called me a miracle and were going to put a plaque up in the hospital.  Many came to view me.  It was talking, completely aware, and conscious of everything.  I was sutured and unsure of this strange paralysis. 

 Eventually, I returned home.  Within a few weeks I walked by myself.  It was yet again another miracle.   Keeping it secret as my mother requested until she died in 2010, I began to write the story in seclusion.  I have made many decisions and had quite a life after this experience.  The faith and love that I received in every cell of my body has never left and has grown and matured more and more. I became a nurse, never speaking of this experience.  I gained both scientific and spiritual knowledge.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  01/19/1975

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I felt like I was carried and held, so I had a type of body I suppose.  I didn't focus on it.  I did hear my mothers scream at the bottom of the hill and was able to see my family and what they were doing from a distance and from a location that is physically impossible to do so.  It was confirmed by my family that what I saw was happening.

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   It was just easier and faster because communication was effortless.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time had no meaning.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     We focus on outer beauty here,  inner beauty shines brighter there in the form of light and love. We interpret the thoughts and emotions with not only our eyes.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The hearing was acute. I could hear my mother scream which startled me and made me look for her.   It was more about communication with all the senses of our being and for me learning and understanding immediately.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It looked like moving through something. I thought it was the woods and above the trees like flying.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     councils of Beings that looked like people in cloaks or robes.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a living light.  It was bright, informational, loving, and expressive.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     It was familiar but different.  Trees, green, mountains, rolling landscape.  Not sure where it is.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Safety, comfort, love, peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     It seems like I do sometimes,  but humbly I do not think I know everything. So therefore, I do not understand everything.  I believe I was enlightened and have a very high level of understanding. I am able to ask for answers and trust they will be available as needed.   I understand very easily and quickly.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events.     Although a short life, it was reviewed in a helpful way to understand about life.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   My mother's cry startled me and I requested to go back.  It was a process.  I was not asked or told to return.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   very limited practice. No home life discussions.  Parents went to church once every couple of years if ever.  Celebrated Christmas.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have practiced what I learned throughout my lifetime.  A grateful heart and a good attitude is so important.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant.   I am Christian, spiritual, and open to loving practices.   I believe religion serves the purpose to bring others to have a  relationship with God, grow in love, and love each other.   I also believe more than one road leads to God.  I believe in God, Angels, love. I also believe you can be spiritual, connect with Gods love in nature or anywhere we choose without a religious association.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I had really no religious beliefs, but I believed in love as a young girl as I had a family that loved me.  Religion was not in our lives. Besides we had Christmas and we had Santa and the Easter Bunny.  I did not have an understanding at all of Jesus, Angels or religions.   When I met the Beings I learned all I needed to know at that time and it taught me so much.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became very giving to others and concerned for other's well-being. Became highly empathetic and insightful.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Later in life I was able to put the name to Melchizedek.  I called Him Jesus as that's what I understood, also 2 Angels, and met with different councils.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     not sure.  I am sure of connection and they can continue. Family, loved ones.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     saw it.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes     I believe we all have something special to offer each other if we choose.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Life is a gift to be valued. Love and connecting to assist one another and be loving with each other is purpose.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     saw it.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     It appears as needed and in its perfect timing.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     That we are responsible for our free will, and we spend time learning there.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love creates more love. It heals. Love connects us.   It is what we try to continue to be even when faced with challenging negatives.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.  Increased love of healing professions, appreciation, gratitude, love, faith, knowledge, connecting, humility, compassion, and a love for service to others and a love and appreciation for those who actively contribute to loving others in a selfless and unselfish way.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes More intensity of love, listening, helpful spirit, more compassion, and giving. Appreciation for what others choose to give with kindness and love.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Hard to find words for things that are not experienced here.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  It is the impact and tremendous love of the experience that keeps the memory current.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I focus on spreading hope, love, faith, and making others feel good about life.  I value relationships and try to share as much as I can with others. I believe my most special gift is all the love and light I was given in my experience.   the knowledge grew and unfolded over the years and I call upon it as needed.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my mom but she asked that I remain silent out of protection for me as a child.  I never shared with anyone until I wrote a book about my experience recently  just published,  after my mother passed away.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was just a part of me, all of it,  the knowledge grew and unfolded over the years as needed and I can call upon it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The questionnaire is well done.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1susanne_s_nde.html