{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1suzanne_b_nde_239.html","mytitle":"Suzanne B NDE 239","mylang":"de"}
          	        Suzanne B NDE 239  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Suzanne B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1401 Suzanne B NDE 239  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had a car accident and was pronounced 'dead'.

I remember feeling comfortable. I also remember the fact that I was 'coming back' and that I had certain obligations towards myself. I had to clean up my act, so to speak. I was experimenting with alcohol and cigarettes. I knew that I had to stop taking these substances into my body as it affected the connection that I had with the universe.

I had always been 'aware' of things that most people weren't. When I was a child an older lady would 'come and get me' and show me things. I saw 'televisions with pictures that could be controlled by an operator' -- I know these to be computers now. I met with 'beings' that looked a lot like the drawings that I have seen of 'aliens'. I have had an uncanny sense of the 'departed' and can sum up a person within minutes of meeting with them. I can sense their pain and fear levels. I can unravel their minds for them, in a short conversation. These skills became 'more' after my experience.

The future, so to speak, was shown to me. I saw faces of people that would be instrumental in my life, but that I had not met yet. My life now, seems to be some sort of slow motion replay of the events of that afternoon in 1983.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 1983

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death   I had a car accident and was pronounced 'dead'. The medics were about to 'body bag' me when I sat bolt upright and screamed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I looked like me, but because of my prior experience with the astral, knew that I had separated from my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Within my soul, I was conscious. My body was 'unconscious'.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     As one does when they enter the astral. No time, no space. Oneness.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The old lady was there, as were two 'alien' beings. The communication was full, but quick. I would need a book to explain it. It is of my understanding that all will be okay. I knew the old lady. She was my guide at the time. The two alien beings are of my soul family, and I communicate with them still.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Light emanated from my being, and those that were there with me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I recognized the place as the place I would go to, when I entered the astral with the older lady guide.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Safe and comfortable. Like I had come home, again.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     The key to knowing is learning to know oneself.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     A clarification of my gift, and the effect I was to have on the lives of those I came in contact with in the future.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I had these gifts prior to my experience.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was the comfort and love that I felt. The worst was the weeks afterwards when my body recovered from the shock. My body took a shaking up to be honest, and it took it a while to recover.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most people think I am full of it. Only recently, say in the last eight to ten years, have people began to understand the universal oneness connection that we all share. I am glad that there has been a lessening of judgment of those like myself.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Meditation.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1suzanne_b_nde_239.html