{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1susannah_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Susannah W NDE 4932","mylang":"de"}
          	        Susannah W NDE 4932  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Susannah W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2532 Susannah W NDE 4932  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was playing with my sister hanging upside down on the washing line over a stone path. The line broke and I fell straight onto my head. 

I left my body and looked back at it without any worry or care. I then travelled in a floating sort of way to a place in the air at the other side of the garden. This did not take long and I felt no pain and very light. I arrived at a sort of cave entrance or tunnel and there was someone or some being waiting for me. He knew who I was. He was very bright and seemed human but was not, he was so bright that he was quite hard to see or recognize. He was pleased to see me but did not seem to think I should be there. He said that he would go and ask what to do - if I should be there. The words were just 'felt' not spoken.

I waited outside the entrance sort of floating in the love. It was so beautiful and so perfect. I had never felt anything even close to this and was just in absolute 'heaven' and did not want it to ever end. I felt completely loved and that nothing bad could ever happen. This seemed to last for a long time.

Then the light person/being returned and said that he was sorry but it was not my time, it was the wrong time. I was absolutely devastated. I went quickly back to my body and my thoughts were, oh no, back to this horrible world.

I was very upset for weeks and felt bad because I thought the world was horrible. I could not tell anyone, as I knew that they would laugh at me and would not believe me.

Although I have never told anyone about this until lately, it has remained so clear and real. I feel that this is more real than anything that has happened in my life since.

After about ten years of marriage, I was brave enough to tell my husband who thought I was being ridiculous. I have not mentioned it to anyone since until recently finding this wonderful website.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1971

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Direct head injury.  I was playing with my sister hanging upside down on the washing line over a stone path. The line broke and I fell straight onto my head.  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I was unconscious for about three or four minutes after head injury.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Unsure, I was only ten.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Unsure, I was only ten.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time lasted much longer.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything seemed bright and more transparent.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I was kept at the entrance.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     As above, a bright 'being' possibly human like. Male. Old. He knew me.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The 'person' emitted light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Only the tunnel/cave as previously mentioned

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, happiness, peacefulness - although these words are not strong enough.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I was not allowed past the entrance.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   My family were not religious at all

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was not brought up in a religious family. Since my experience I have become more and more religious although in an alternative way.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was not brought up in a religious family. Since my experience I have become more and more religious although in an alternative way.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain As I was only ten it is hard to say. I am incredibly tolerant and have very little concern for myself, preferring to help others.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I now often have psychic experiences and dreams. I have spent my life caring for others. I have no fear of death.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The utter and complete love that I was bathed in.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My husband, thirty years later. He did not believe me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was upset that I had come back thinking 'oh no not this horrible world again.'  My parents were trying to give me a good life and I felt ungrateful.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It still feels more real than anything that has happened in my life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1susannah_w_nde.html