{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1susan_h_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Susan H Probable NDE 4950","mylang":"de"}
          	        Susan H Probable NDE 4950  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Susan H Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2543 Susan H Probable NDE 4950  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in surgery for the excision of meningioma. Six hours. While going under, I was aware that Jesus Christ came into the room. I was taken from my body and observed up to the point of doctors beginning to open my skull. Communication was telepathic. They wanted to take me to a Golden Mountain that was illuminated with white and gold light. There I was greeted by my family who had passed on. There was such joy and remarkable peace. They said 'Do not be afraid.' Messengers were needed to let people know that death is not fearful. People had forgotten. They gave me instructions in how to work with the gifts we are given to assist one another. The illumination was so magnificent. Moving around was so easy in this body. The whole environment felt and appeared as though the body or consciousness of Christ was alive in each person making up a whole that was expanding beyond the universe. Love was so peacefully exuding from within each presence. Some of the figures were angelic with wings.

The spiral light filled luminous tunnel through which I had passed led to this incredible place. I wanted to stay with them. We went through a life review and I was at peace with choices that had been made. I was aware that I had felt bad about some events in the physical, and saw things from an illuminated perspective, which filled me with peace. There were other things that were discussed which I am not recalling right now. At one point, they said that I could stay. I was so at peace with dying in the physical. I was given the choice and was ready to say, 'Yes.' Then I remembered that I was the conservator for my aunt's care. With that - I returned.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'November 12, 1987'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related    Other: Sometime during 6 hour surgery to excise brain tumor.  Sometime during the surgery, I was given a choice. What was actually occurring during the surgery I do not know.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As I recall, the beginning and middle and end. The in-between seems less clear.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Recall an awareness of the earthly plane. Though the activities in the realms visited was as though there was an important connection between all.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There was a transparency of objects. Probably my use of the word luminous. Objects were not solid. The ability to see and move through objects was effortless.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Clear telepathic communication. The clarity of words used and sounds were like music.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was luminous and spiral shaped.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Christ, St. Mary, Buddhist Monks and Angels, Native American saints (was aware of some dancing movement). They said they are always with me and looking out after me on my journey, whether I'm in the physical body or not. I was shown method of healing light. We are all connected was a message.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Luminous colors, White and Gold, and rainbow colors.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Flying (so to speak) to other locations and dimensions.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, joy, peacefulness as though I had gone home.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     That my life here was important and that I am deeply loved. I am happiest in this life when serving in some capacity. Spiritual. Do not be distracted by how things appear, pray and ask for help and we will guide you. Help communicate what we have shown you, just by being. Trust your inner voice and do not be distracted or disheartened by appearances.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Accuracy is higher. Confirmation imperative to determine.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Episcopalian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     More open and luminous. I am less rigid in structure and belief.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Episcopalian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     More open and luminous. I am less rigid in structure and belief.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That everything in this universe is in accordance to Divine plan. Growing, learning, evolving. We will one day all be living this kind of harmony and peace-joy and love.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more open to friends who are on a spiritual path. Kindness, gentleness and loving acceptance are so very meaningful.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Psychic and healing. Learned that not all choose to be healed. The journey or experience of disease can take them within to other levels of consciousness. It's important to respect each journey.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When I regained consciousness in the intensive care unit, the warmth in knowing I was loved and valuable really stayed with me. No matter what the outer world is saying, we are so loved and valuable.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Shorty after the surgery. At first, some people tried to put me on a pedestal and seemed to expect things. Some became afraid. Some tried to disprove what I'd said. I became more cautious in what I relayed and tried to appear 'normal'. It has been a process of allowing what is to unfold as needed. I seem to be cautious of too much attention directed my way.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It felt so real though I knew caution in relaying this experience was important. People would be skeptical and I needed to accept this too.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have waivered to feeling it was but a dream. Then something occurs that brings back different aspects and knowledge that I would not have known otherwise.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   None of the above. Though some aspects have reoccurred.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Accepting these experiences and loving oneself even when others may doubt you.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       How did this experience translate to your return to the physical? How did you feel on the return?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1susan_h_probable_nde.html