{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1susan_d_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Susan D Probable NDE 7938","mylang":"de"}
          	        Susan D Probable NDE 7938  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Susan D Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			4109 Susan D Probable NDE 7938  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I went into a space where there was a huge castle made of golden-yellow light.  There where thousands of little lights dancing around the castle, while joyfully singing very loudly. I knew that they were souls. They were celebrating their salvation and were worshipping a Being inside the castle, whom I now know was Jesus. Souls of my great-grandparents and other relatives, who I never met, came to greet me and encouraged me to join in with them in the singing and dancing.  They were very patient and loving. I knew these people knew my family and I instantly felt a connection to them, even though I never met them. They were saying things like 'Isn't he wonderful? God has done so much for us!' I didn't understand exactly what it was he had done but knew that I would find out later. I then heard God say, telepathically, that I had to go back because I had work to do which was to lead my mother to salvation and to help her. I knew without a shadow of doubt that's what I had to do and never questioned it. The music was extremely loud with so many different kinds of harmonies that I have never heard on Earth, and yet it wasn't disturbing.  It all made sense and came together beautifully.  It seemed to me that when I was in spirit form that it never sounds too loud, only peaceful and very joyful.  All I knew were that souls were celebrating and Jesus was celebrating with them. The next minute I woke up on the couch at my grandmother's place.  I was shivering with a cold washcloth on my forehead and Mum fussing over me. 

My life has been hard ever since my experience, but because I found the Lord at age 22, he has always been there to help and guide me through.  My family is slowly coming around to him because of the changes they have seen in me. In my early thirties, I had a skin graft to my nose and just before coming out of the operation, I had an out of body experience. I was outside my body in recovery looking at my face with all the bandages.  I could see the nurse with her hand on the phone waiting for me to awaken. I felt God was telling me to go back in because I was meant to go through all this.  Next thing, I was back in my body in a lot of pain.  The nurse rang for the orderlies to come and get me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain   Illness        Life threatening event, but not clinical death   All I remember was that I used to get many high fevers and sometimes go unconscious, I never knew the cause, my mother kept taking me to Doctors for injections, and my family never told me what was wrong!

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I somehow knew there was going to be a lot of trouble in the world even though I had never read the bible; I also knew I would go through hard times but that it would only be for a little while.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   You somehow know more about the reasons why we are here and have to go through trials and why the world is the way it is. I believe I knew, even though I was only four and had never heard the gospel yet.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I believe during the castle scene because your senses are heightened in heaven.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There is no time there, it could have been a few minutes, it could have been hours, I don't know.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors and sounds are clearer and you communicate in thought.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Sounds are incredibly loud without it being too loud, just reassuring and peaceful.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I think I may have but I just can't remember

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Great Grandparents, whom I had never met

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   God was giving the light from the castle, the light was God, and it felt like the light had personality and could communicate with you.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Heaven

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, Joy, and Happiness, total contentment

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I was given reassurance that a lot of bad things were going to happen in the world and in my life but that God is still in control and hasn't let any of us go.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Wars, floods, earthquakes, all the things that are happening now

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I just knew I had to go back to help my mother.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   Was not any religion but became a Christian at age 22

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I always knew there was a God even before I was taught the bible.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I found Jesus as an adult and it confirmed the experience I had at age four to be a vision of heaven even though my parents told me it was rubbish

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had never read the bible or heard anything about it because I was only four, but since then I have learned a lot that was consistent with my experience.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I knew God and heaven was real even though people kept telling me it was rubbish.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The voices of the other souls and God talking to me, encouraging me to join in with the worship

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesus

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I knew there was a heaven and that many people go there.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     He spoke to me and I knew he was God. God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Just to be prepared that things were going to be hard.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I knew terrible things would happen but that God wouldn't leave us.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I knew I was going to come back to this place and I look forward to it.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     Hard to explain, I saw visions of terrible things that were going to happen but it flashed by in a matter of seconds.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I knew life was going to be hard.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I knew, without a doubt, that God loves us.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       It always brought me back to God whenever I felt like I lost my way.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain They didn't at the time because I was only four but my memory of it has changed my relationships for the better since I became a Christian.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The music and sounds were quiet and yet gentle and never overwhelming.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    It was all so clear and real, it was all going on in front of me and you can't argue with facts.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I believe I developed a lot more empathy towards people after I came to the Lord at age 22.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just knowing there is a lot of love, peace, and joy in heaven.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Last year and they told me to write a book about it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was so real and matter of fact, I told people I came back to Earth to rescue my mother but no one believed me, I believe that's why I went off the tracks for a while, people convinced me it wasn't real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's very consistent with other people's NDEs

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Sometimes during praise and worship in church, when connecting to God I am reminded of that experience and know that it's real.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Death is nothing to fear.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, I can't think of any.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1susan_d_probable_nde.html