{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1susan_f_ndes.html","mytitle":"Susan F NDEs 7631","mylang":"de"}
          	        Susan F NDEs 7631  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Susan F NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  			3916 Susan F NDEs 7631  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Experience #1 - Suffocated in the snow.  

Prior to the event, my mom agreed to let us go out after nap time ended, to play in the snow.  I was happy to do it because being self-absorbed in playtime is something two and three year olds love to do! So mom got us dressed and off we went into the snowy front yard of our home in Illinois. My brother built a 'snow tunnel' and we got inside.  Everything was okay for a while.  Then, my brother exited the snow tunnel to go play outside the tunnel.  While I was in the tunnel, unexpectedly, the snow caved in on me.  I immediately remember doing a face-plant into the snow and stopped breathing.  That's when I felt my spirit come out of my physical body.  I went to an unearthly place that felt very loving.  I was only out of my body for a few seconds and the beings of light there said I had to go back. The next thing I remember is my brother wiping the snow off my face and him waiting several seconds and then I was breathing again.  I felt angry at having to come back into my body. 

Experience #2 – Electrocution

Electrocuted myself later during the summer when I was two-years-old. I remember crawling around in my diaper.  I don't remember what time it was. It was still 1954.  My parents had purchased a big black and white console television set.  I was watching a crude cartoon of a man expressing happiness.  He got into a delivery truck, inserted a key into the truck's ignition and drove off.  As he was driving, he was singing and demonstrating a joyful time driving his truck.  That looked like a good idea to me. I looked around on the carpet, where I was searching for something like I key.  Then, I looked for something to stick it into.  The closest thing available was an electrical outlet.  I remember finding a bobby pin and sticking it into the electrical outlet.  

The next thing that happened was that electricity knocked my spirit out of my physical body.  Again, I found myself in an unearthly but very pleasant feeling place with some very loving beings.  They once again said, 'Sorry, it's not your time yet.  You've gotta go back.'  The next thing I remember is being back in my physical body, crying with a little bit of black on the bottom of my feet and hands.  Again, I felt angry I had to come back.  I wanted to stay with the loving light beings. Experience #3 - Spirit Spontaneously Came out of my Physical Body 

In 2011 I fell asleep in a hotel room.  I was rooming with another hypnotist at a huge convention in Marlborough, Massachusetts. It was the evening before I was to do a presentation on the crossing over process.  I was sharing one of my client's events.  This is a huge annual convention that attracts typically between 1200 and 1500 professional clinical hypnotists. Anyway, I spontaneously felt my body coming out of my body while I was sleeping.  My roommate was Dr. Janice who is both, a friend and colleague.  She was awake reading.  

As I felt my body slipping out of my physical body, I saw my dad, my son and some other friends who had already completed their earth journey.  I could not speak using my physical body.  I feel a little bit confused about why I couldn't talk.  I think I was stuck in between the earthly and heavenly dimensions. I felt my physical body sit up on the edge of my bed.  Janice saw that I was upset.  I was crying and having a one-way conversation in my mind with Dad and Jason who was my son who completed his earth journey at age twelve of a rare birth disorder.  I felt hopeful that I was finally done with my earth journey.  They were pushing my spirit on the head and saying, 'Get back in your body!  Stay!  Stay!'  But I wanted to be done.  

Then, I started to cry and was finally able to talk.  I couldn't open my eyes for some reason.  I started carrying on a one-way conversation with my spiritual entourage and Janice could now hear me.  I was arguing that I wanted to 'come home.'  She reached out and held my hand in a consoling, loving manner.  She couldn't see what I saw but she is a very compassionate, caring person and was there trying to support me. I finally allowed my Dad to persuade me to stay longer on earth though I felt regret.  I was like an obedient child to his persuasion.  It was like he KNEW there was something really great in my future but didn't say it. Eventually, my spirit friends and family evaporated.  

I never did open my eyes during the entire event.  I never spoke directly to Janice.  I did use a tissue and wipe my eyes and blow my nose because I was crying about having to stay and I missed my Dad and son so much.  I saw a deceased pet there.  I also saw some friends of the family who had crossed over, too.  I missed them all. So, after I blew my nose and wiped my tears, I silently lay back down on my bed and went back to sleep, never saying anything to Janice. In the morning, Janice never said a word.  

We got up and prepared for the day.  I was getting ready to do my presentation the morning after the NDE event.  I was almost headed out the hotel room and turned around and spoke to Janice who is from the UK.  I said, 'It would have been kind of inconvenient if I had died last night.' She responded with her usual polite, English and Canadian manner, 'Yes, Susan, it would have been quite untidy!'  We both laughed and I left the hotel room to head to my presentation which was being videotaped.  We occasionally talk about this NDE at times and laugh over her remark as I was heading out the door.  I had already been doing palliative care with people, teaching them how the crossing over event is and also explained NDEs to students.  I think I've covered all the details of all three experiences here.  

I have always been clairaudient, Clair-cognizant, clairsentient and clairvoyant.  When I was little I would see angels and just assumed everyone sees them.  But as I began to age, I discovered that only a small percentage of the population has the spiritual or metaphysical abilities I have.  Now with my clients I do what I call readings and clearings, bring messages from their deceased loved ones and tell them what their energy fields are saying.  It's all just a normal part of life for me.  Nobody has EVER, my entire life looked solid to me.  They look energetic. That's just the best way I can describe it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1954

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes.      Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Suffocated in snow when snow tunnel collapsed in on me. Life threatening event, but not clinical death. My brother, who was 1 year older than me, and I were playing in the snow in a 'snow tunnel' we built.  Unexpectedly, the snow caved in on me.  I immediately remember doing a face-plant into the snow and stopped breathing.  That's when my spirit came out of my body.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I think I've already described that above.  But briefly, in the snow story, I knew I had bi-located.  My physical body had stopped breathing and I knew it.  I could see it.  I was outside of it.  When I electrocuted myself, I knew I was out of my body and that my physical body was not breathing.  I could see it from my eternal body.  In the last experience, my physical body was still moving but again, I felt like I was bi-located.  This really is kind of common for me because I have had many of these paranormal experiences. I clearly left my body and existed outside it.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   On a second's notice, I regularly converse with angels and ascended masters of God's Loving world.  In the higher frequencies of life, realms seem to me like different energy layers.  They're all good, just different.  So, that high vibrating consciousness is pretty normal for me.  When I am focusing on intentionally feeling love, that is when I feel the greatest peace and that God is always with me and any of these psychic events I experience will always be all right.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I would say that I was at my highest level of consciousness and alertness when my spirit came out of my body and I was 'in' the different realms.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     In the two-year-old experiences, things went fast.  I was out of my physical body, and then I was back in almost immediately.  It only seemed like a few seconds. There was a definite division between the two life form locations. When I was an adult, time seemed to be at a constant.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     In each of the experiences, I stopped seeing through my brain and eyes.  I saw and communicated through every fiber of my spiritual being.  Everything has an aura.  I talk with the aura of the being and through telepathy, it talks with me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The hearing in my physical body via the brain and ears is very narrow and seems tentative.  The 'hearing' through every fiber of my being never ends.  In fact it embraces me vibration-ally as telepathic movement of information

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I think I've already covered this above but there was no real 'tunnel' per se.  I simply knew I was no longer fully present on earth and was where I had originally come from in the eternities.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my Dad, my son Jason and some family friends of my Dad's I knew quite well when I was growing up.  Also, there was a boatload of family relatives in the background but they didn't come close enough to talk with me.  I was mainly talking with Dad, Jase and his friends.  This was in the 2011 experience.  In the experiences at a two-year-old, it was simply loving angels.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was very light and bright in each experience except the one in 2011.  In that one, it was just in an open 'opaque'- looking area that I was part in and part out of while still partly in my physical body.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I think I've already covered this in other questions.  It simply was not 'here' in the physical world vibration address.  It was of a higher vibratory address.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt anger mostly at knowing what is beyond this temporary life place and what's in the REAL world.  I felt regret at having to accept that it wasn't my time and then I felt peace at accepting that I still had to come back and do more of God's work to the best of my ability with my clients, friends, extended family and people I will still meet.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I understood, even as a two-year-old what was happening but didn't know how to explain it.  As an adult, I understood it because this is my career.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   After having three NDEs, watching my own son die at home at age twelve and working with several others in palliative care, I know God is always with us, never leaves us and always provides what we need to keep moving forward in life.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I see the value of being open-minded and praying regularly to receive continued help from above.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I communicated through the LOVE feelings.  I felt embraced in unconditional love and heard the very identifiable voice of loving angels.  They are my friends and I knew they were.  I'll be back there again someday when God is ready for me to complete my earth journey.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I saw Jesus and angels for sure.  He is my primary guide as I do the work I do.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Again, it was a telepathic thing.  I just knew and felt real life was in the eternities rather than on earth.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Telepathically it was conveyed to me that real life is in the eternities not on earth.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I think I've already covered this in other places.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt unconditionally loved for who I was rather than for what I could do.  That's why I wanted to stay because humans often try to manipulate you into servitude.  That was the reason I wanted to stay.  My mother was very unhappy and expressed that to everyone, especially when she didn't get her way!

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     Slight changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I think I've already covered this.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I share my experiences with like-minded people.  With non-believers, I just keep quiet because they don't get it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   In the 2011 experience yes, it's my career field.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I think I already covered this.  I shared it with the like-minded who know it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I already covered this.  This stuff happens regularly, especially when I'm working with clients.  I can see and hear their energy fields talking with me.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Hope.  That's pretty much it.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       My head is spinning.  So many questions.  If I think of something I'll contact you.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1susan_f_ndes.html