{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1susan_h_nde_9492.html","mytitle":"Susan H NDE 9492","mylang":"de"}
          	        Susan H NDE 9492  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Susan H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5106 Susan H NDE 9492  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I have been told I died three separate occasions. 

  I clearly remember a feeling that I was in a tunnel. I was floating towards a light that was getting larger the closer I got to it. I felt very relaxed. But, I also remember becoming increasingly annoyed as the nurse kept calling out to me and telling me to come back. Although I was annoyed at being disturbed,  I listened to her.  I found myself awake and back on the hospital bed in the emergency area.
  
  My next experience was within 10 minutes of returning.    I was looking down into the room and could see myself on the bed surrounded by medical staff. I remember not being able to understand why I was looking down at myself with strangers around me.

  Through both these experiences, I do not remember being alarmed or frightened. Instead, I had a feeling of being at peace.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2014  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Allergic Reaction       Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was in cardiogenic shock after being given wrong medication.    
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  The feeling of floating towards a light that was becoming larger and brighter the closer I floated towards it.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal.   My highest level of consciousness was when I was floating towards a very bright light. I remember hearing the nurse calling me back and feeling annoyed because I was so very relaxed. My next memories came during the second occasion when I was looking down at the medical staff surrounding my bed I remember feeling confused  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When floating and being annoyed at the nurse calling me back.  The second occasion was when I was looking down at myself and being surrounded by doctors and nurses.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     I lost all meaning of time  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Thinking back, I don’t think there was any difference  
  
  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear the nurse calling me back but I couldn’t hear anything else happening, such as the medical staff surrounding my bed  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

  Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes.     I was floating through a tunnel towards a light  
  
Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A light was getting larger and brighter  the closer I was to it.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will.  I suppose it could be like a barrier when the nurse was calling me back. She was repeatedly saying, &quot;Susan come back!&quot; This was so annoying  I was feeling very peaceful like I had never felt before  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Select     

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I have always believed we went somewhere. I have an understanding that I previously did not as to being welcomed into something that I wasn’t sure what it was.  But I felt at peace  
  
  Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes.     My belief that there is a god still remains the same as it always has.  I understand there is something there but as to what, I'm still unsure. I have become more of an advocate to other's rights as I realize life is short so any wrongs made to others. I  try and rectify them  
  
Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     It has made me less critical of others. I now go through life not concerned about &quot;what if’s.&quot;  
  
Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have become less critical of others  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I remember what occurred to me on that day it was 8 years ago and I remember it like I remember getting out of bed this morning. I also now know death is nothing to be frightened of. I had a look at the experience left me feeling of peace and comfort when I think of it that I do not understand why  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The experience has made me go through life not being afraid of what if’s  

  Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it almost immediately with medical staff. They informed me they knew what was happening to me, they see it often, and that's why the nurse was calling me to come back  
  
Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     The reality of it still stays with me today  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     I know it was real. I have never forgotten it  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No other questions I can think of         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1susan_h_nde_9492.html