{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1susan_nde.html","mytitle":"Susan NDE 3309","mylang":"de"}
          	        Susan NDE 3309  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Susan NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1145  Susan NDE  3309  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My parents and I went to dinner at our local pizza inn. I was sitting to the left of my mom and my dad was sitting across from my mom in a booth. All was fine until I felt a deep pain in my chest. I thought I told my mom that I was going to pass out, but when I came to, she said I didn't say a word.

My whole body felt numb and tingling like when your foot falls asleep. I was a bit light headed, but we continued dinner and went home. I recall people I didn't know coming toward me, but only their faces, telling me to go back. I don't remember how I came back.

My parents did not take me to the doctor. I didn't relate this story to anyone for a long time, and I still only tell a select few - especially someone that is dying. I can tell them not to be afraid, it does not hurt.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    early 1970's

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No     'was eating dinner with parents, had a bad pain in my chest and then passed out.'  Other feeling fine. Having dinner.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When the people were telling me to 'go back'.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      When the people were telling me to 'go back'.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It seemed as though I was weightless.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I was moving (I think) but not in a tunnel or towards a light. People were either coming at me or me at them.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I don't think I knew the people there. They kept telling me to go back. I only saw their faces and they were close up. They were coming at me or I was going to them.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Didn't know where I was. Felt calm though. Like there was nothing I could do to stop what was happening.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Just to not be afraid of dying.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     It has made me believe in life after death for sure.

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     It has made me believe in life after death for sure.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know that when you die you don't really die. I am able to comfort those close to death because of what happened to me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     Prior to this experience I had the unique ability to speak along with others. Not actually reading minds, just an annoying habit as my dad would say. Now I am very in tune and have very vivid dreams. If I have a strong vivid dream about someone, say cheating on someone else, I will know it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Them telling me to go back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    When this happened to me, NDE's were just hitting the media. It wasn't until I was in my twenties did I tell anyone, and then I was very shy about it. Most of the people didn't pay much attention.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Because people don't usually remember what happened to them when they pass out. I did and still do.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Just remember so vividly still. It helps me to comfort others that are facing certain death. Like my friend Donna who died from cancer and a broken heart almost two years ago. I hope I gave her some sort of comfort.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      How did you feel, physically and mentally when you came back?

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1susan_nde.html