{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sue_v_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Sue V NDE-Like 2869","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sue V NDE-Like 2869  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sue V NDE-Like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  						983  Sue V NDE-Like  2869  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was driving home from work, alone in my car. I had come to a place near the water that I love. I remember thinking that it was a beautiful place to be. I was then in outer space and could 'see' (not with my eyes but with another sense) the stars and all the heavenly bodies forming and stretching across the sky from the beginning of time to eternity very quickly. At the same time, I was aware of all things from the smallest organism to the biggest happenings of outer space. 

I had a 'knowing' of everything and anything. Above my head and to my right a bright light (not blinding but brighter than any light I have known) flowed quickly towards and over me engulfing me and all the other souls in the universe and down on earth (which I was fully aware of entirely). Simultaneously, the light was also this complete LOVE. It was a type of love that cannot be described as it is not like anything I have ever known. The love came with the light. It was received and given at the same time. It spread from what I instantly knew was God to encompass everything in the universe and beyond. The love was like bliss and so complete that there was no room for anything else. (No room for evil.) 

I had a strong message (no words were spoken) that what I was doing was the right thing to do, and that I didn't need to do anything other than what I did. During the experience, I had no sensation of a body at all. I felt one with the universe. Next, I was back in my body and still driving my car at the very same spot that I had been before the experience began. The experience seemed like it could have lasted about ten minutes, but there was no sense of time really. I have felt that I was 'shown' more than I can remember. Also, I feel that where I was, was home, and that I am only visiting earth for a purpose. I feel that I know the purpose but that I just cannot remember it.

Since this experience, I have no interest in earthly possessions, I am not afraid to die, I love everyone and do not know how to hate. Forgiveness is easy and right-ness is a must. Peace in the world is possible if only everyone could have a similar experience to see this kind of love. No words can describe it. I find I cannot explain it to my friends and family. Each person must have the experience themselves. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	Sometime about 2003 or 2004  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         Just driving home from a day at work  Other 'Strangely, I was driving. No known illness. No drugs. Possibly tired after work.'  Never, in fact I felt like I was being 'told' that all I was doing was the right thing to do.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Another sense.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I cannot answer this question because I felt conscious the whole time. I was either conscious of being in the car or conscious of being in space, or in the light or in the love or back in the car and on earth again.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     There seemed to be no time. Everything happened at once.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I didn't see anything with my eyes. I didn't feel anything. I didn't hear anything. It was like I had another sense.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No hearing with my ears. I didn't have a body.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I felt other beings everywhere. We were all part of each other and the light and the love. It is too hard to describe in words.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light came down and flooded me then the rest of everything until there was no room for anything else. The light and the love where the same thing.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Another dimension in outer space.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love. Bliss.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I felt I was being shown the universe and the world from the beginning of time to eternity. I learnt that I knew why I was here on earth.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        Just a general awareness of the universal future. I don't remember it except that it was happening as it should.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None (anti religion)  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I understand all religions, good and bad.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I believe in a universal god  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I understand all religions, good and bad.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I feel like I was shown everything there is to know. Or even that I already knew everything that there is to know but that I had forgotten it.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more tolerant, more understanding, more humble, more forgiving, more loving.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   No words can fully describe it. Nothing was seen, heard, or felt. It was a 'knowing'.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Everything was right.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only two people. A friend and my sister who didn't say much. It took me about a year to tell anyone. At first, I decided it was personal and too hard to describe. I still think that it is.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just accepted it as something that happened to me. I didn't realize how widespread it was until I tried to research it. It didn't occur to me that it was so similar to a near death experience for three years.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The whole experience was so foreign to my senses that I could not have dreamt it.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Has anyone else had the experience without a near death?     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sue_v_ndelike.html