{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sunny_p_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Sunny P Possible NDE 22891","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sunny P Possible NDE 22891  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sunny P Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3516 Sunny P Possible NDE 22891  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I broke three bones in the lower part of right leg on July 5, 2012. In the emergency room, I was placed under anesthetic temporarily for setting the bones without pain.

The next thing I remember was seeing and experiencing a beautiful crystal-like, kaleidoscope-like (but not symmetrical) light. I could also hear a soothing chime-like sound. 

Like a funnel with suction, I was back in the emergency room.  I was sad and almost irritated that they ‘interrupted my dream.’ The first words from my lips were, ‘ahhh, I was having such a great dream.’  The woman standing over me said, ‘we lost you’ and they had to revive me.  I didn't think too much about it at the time, I guess just glad I was a alive. 

This experience won't leave me and has caused to contemplate its meaning.

I learned last week that we don't dream while under anesthesia. Then what was I doing?

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Placed under Propathol in the emergency room to set a broken leg.  Clinical death   The emergency room doctor told me they ‘lost’ me while under anesthetic.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard a tune as if from high-pitched soothing chimes.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a crystal-like unsymmetrical light that shifted as though with movement.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I only recall the sense of sight and sound.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was happy, content, and peaceful.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     This experience has caused me to believe that death is kind and not painful.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part of the experience is my personal belief now that death is painless.  I suppose the worst part is that although I know I am not alone, no one that I know has experienced this that I can talk to.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have shared the experience with only a few people to date, including a physician.  So far, no one has shared any similar experiences and their responses, have been neither negative nor positive.  No one has looked at me as though I have three heads yet.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am now a believer.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sunny_p_possible_nde.html