{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sue_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Sue H NDE 4279","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sue H NDE 4279  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sue H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2106 Sue H NDE 4279  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was in the afternoon. I was with my cousin, two sisters, brother and a friend in the back yard, trying to light our in ground BBQ pit that my father had recently built. We tried lighting paper with matches, but being impatient children we needed more. My cousin had an idea - gas from the boat that my father parked on blocks in our back yard. He got an old mason jar and put the mixture of gas and oil in it.  Unaware of the danger, I sat nearest to the pit because I was chilly. The paper was still smoldering when he poured the gas in the middle of the pit.

I can still see it in slow motion; the gas hit a rock that curved in my direction. As it did so, it ignited right behind the stream, heading directly towards my lap. As my dress caught fire, I started to run, trying to brush the fire off my dress, with my family chasing me trying to help. I noticed that I was wiping flesh off my legs and then 'nothing'. Suddenly I saw my brother putting a blanket on me. I remembering thinking 'it hurts, get it off me'. Later I found out that the blanket was wool, and with no flesh on my legs, it felt like steel wool. I couldn't speak, it is flashes of memory. I was in the emergency room at the hospital and they said they couldn't help.  They cut off my tennis shoes as much as they could, 'burned rubber in my ankles', wrapped me up like a mummy in greased gauze and transported me by ambulance to the nearest Burn Center. 

While in the ambulance, I heard a person say 'Pull Over, Pull Over,' then peace came over me. I started to float above the ambulance, sitting Indian style, in wonderment as to what was happening to me, with my palm on my chin still looking through the ambulance. They were moving frantically, but I didn't care, I was in peace. I then heard a beautiful voice (couldn't tell if it were male or female) saying ' You have to go back'. I argued 'WHY? She is hurt and I am fine' as if I were a third party, then in a snap I was back in my body. I was screaming in pain and the person working on me said 'it's ok, you will be fine'. I yelled, 'You don't understand. I want to go back, COME BACK!!!!! I want to go back', but nothing. The entity had gone and I felt abandoned.

After many operations, they said that I would never walk again, but I went on to run, winning ribbons in junior high.  I thought that I would never have the experience of being near an angel again, when one day swimming in the river I got on a beaver barge. I panicked and couldn't pull myself out of the water. I was submerged with just inches from the surface, no air, starting to fade out,  when I looked up through the water and saw a person standing upon the barge 'where no one could be supported'. She put her hand through the water, over my face, pushed me HARD under the barge and through the other side. I jumped up to see if anyone was on the barge, and no one. I do believe in Guardian Angels.  I got married, had my children and now I am a grandmother of a Jacob age 15, and James age 3. I love my life, husband, kids, grandkids and friends, and someday I will meet that Angel again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  around 1957 - 1958

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was on fire.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       A day later.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I now have Retinitis Pigmentosa, legally blind.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Higher pitch.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See above.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wonderful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'Believe, but not practiced, don't go to church or temple, too many hippos.....'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     There is definitely an Angel looking over me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is the only thing that saved me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Enjoy life and others, there are Angels.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sue_h_nde.html