{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1suresh_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Suresh K NDE 774","mylang":"de"}
          	        Suresh K NDE 774  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Suresh K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						296  Suresh K NDE  774  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

On 17th December 1972, I had a most profound experience of my life, when I had a date, a close encounter, with death. Due to an abscess in my liver, I was hospitalized and had to undergo aspirations. The first one went off well but during the second aspiration, I felt something unusual happening.


I felt that a number of spears were piercing my anus, and a great storm or whirlpool had started in my abdomen. Each center in my body was activated and energized. Life energy from every part, tissue, and cell of my body, was combining and trying to leave from the top of my head. My breathing had stopped, blood pressure was zero times zero, and still I could hear the doctors discussing what had happened. And then within a fraction of a second I traveled millions of miles and reached an area of the Light.


The traveling was in the fourth dimension, which can be termed as an out of body experience, when an unidentified identity merged in 'that Light'. Words fail me as I try to describe exactly what I saw or felt. But I can say that there was no humanized God, all the same, it was an area of unalloyed purity. There was brilliant Light, immense speed or Motion and unbelievable Divine Love. I did not require senses to experience 'IT'. 'I' was absent and still I saw, knew and understood. Though I was there for a few seconds, it felt like an eternity. My concept of time and distance changed considerably, as I had traveled immeasurably long distance in a trillionth of a second and what seemed like an eternity was eternal sacredness condensed in our concept of time.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    Dec. 17, 1972

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Surgery-related    Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I saw immense light.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   I did not want to come back. The first thing I said when I regained consciousness was, 'Why have you brought me back?'

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   none

What is your religion now?      Liberal   introduction of totally new concept of religion,intercepting religion with modern science.l oving god through nature.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I realized, that I was alone on this path and still unknown to me, there was this 'Leader' leading me towards my goal. My intense desire had totally enveloped me and step-by-step, the journey had begun.  One day, the 'Caller' called on me, in the form of Lord Krishna, who presented Himself in three dimensions. The formless form appeared in the form and soundless voice spoke to me. We exchanged words without uttering them and questions were asked and answered. This event was not an isolated incident.  Soon thereafter Shri Rama, Sita and Hanuman appeared and blessed me. Once, in Delhi, I had the vision of Lord Shiva in my hotel room, and on another occasion, I could see innumerable tiny Lord Krishna, on every pore on my body. Like this I have had visions of Lord Jesus, Jain Tirthankars -- Shri Adinath, Shri Parshvanath, Shri Mahaveer, as well as Lord Buddha, and others. In the same way, Narasi Mehta, Tukaram, Gnyaneshvara, Guru Nanak, Vivekanand and other saints visited me. These have been unending encounters, which are still going on.  This inspired me to read the Holy Bible, Koran Sharif, and other scriptures, which made me realize, that my understanding of the holy books had changed. I would leaf through them feeling that the Knower had already made known to me, what was written in the books.  'I was diving in duality, sometimes in Light, sometimes in Sound,  but wherever was His might…  Nothing was tight, both were having the might of the Almighty…  Both were co-operating to create an Eternal creation…  This formless Light and Sound, unveil the perpetuality,  in the form of words…'

After the NDE:

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Later I realized, that the 'Governor' of the universe had taken over the governance of my life, and 'I' was reduced to a nonentity. In my state of absence, the unknown cosmic force manifested and communicated in the form of poetry.  'When I was totally devoid of thoughts, made me write the Divine force …  Gently it started; slowly it picked up and became a forceful force…  At times words wrapped in notes and tunes, to fill my ears with  numberless songs,  Rained on me the soundless sound, in the forms of verses, poetry and songs...'  I started writing in 1978.  I had a deep longing to be with Him, which led me to plead to Him to lead me to the right path. It was all expressed in beautiful poetry form. He created longing and craving and He only pointed the path and provided answers. This process was very slow to start with, but as the years went by, it picked up momentum and have crossed the mark of fifty-six thousand verses. Over the years a pattern has emerged which covers knowledge of a wide range of subjects, such as creation, atom, human anatomy, human mind, Atman (Self), etc.  Time spent in creative contemplation, is followed by a pause that leads to writing, which includes bhajans (devotional songs), poetry, verses, along with revelations and messages from the Lord, in different languages, such as Gujarati, Hindi, Sanskrit, Urdu, Marathi, as well as English.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       There is no worst, its simply the best experience I have ever had.  The kind of love that I experienced there, cannot be expressed in words.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I have shared my experience with thousands of people through talks, religious discourses, interviews in newspapers, magazines and television.  I now have a group of friends who not only organize my religious discourses on a large scale inviting hundreds of people with whom I can share my experiences and the writings I receive from God, some of which have been set to musical tunes we call bhajans (hymns).

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Yes, it definitely changed my perception of death. I realized that, He is the best surgeon, who does painless and bloodless surgery, and the life energy leaves the body without any pain or without leaving a single scar, therefore death is nothing to be afraid of, it is not the end. Actually, it is a new beginning.  'Death is not a process…  It is precisely a recess…  Death is not your past projection…  But a swimming pool of Godliness…'  'Death is a creator, always of a new chapter…  It does not wipe off and acts like a wiper…  The day you are born, the mother wraps the diaper…  Death makes you a diver, to dive in the Divine sapphire…'  'Life is a mirror, death is a prism…  One reflects your action and the other refracts your transactions…  Life energizes your genes; death brings new DNA in genes…'  'Life has no doctrine but waits for gains…  Death is a doctor for losses to gain…  Life is a product of many deaths…  And death is a product for furtherance of new life…'

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1suresh_k_nde.html