{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1suki_m_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Suki M Possible NDE 2785","mylang":"de"}
          	        Suki M Possible NDE 2785  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Suki M Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						946  Suki M Possible NDE  2785  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was in the hospital lying on a table in a surgical room waiting for a procedure to have my bladder examined having suffered numerous urinary tract infections over the past two years. I was dressed only in a gown and had my legs in stirrups, which was unbelievable traumatic for a little girl. A nurse had just chased an orderly out of the room who had no business being there and was clearly staring at me before he was removed from the room. I felt violated and helpless.

Then the urologist came in with the anesthesiologist and I knew I was going to be 'gassed' and put to sleep. Suddenly, it was just more than I could bear and I panicked in a way I could not believe possible - it was just so intense and I struggled to fight my way off the table.

The next thing I knew, I was being pulled through a white tunnel with bells clanging all around me. I remember thinking I had never heard such a sound before and wondered if this was what it was like to be put to sleep. Suddenly, a being appeared before me - a kind young man about in his teens. He was dressed like a wizard. I believe it was my deceased brother who would have been six years older than me, if he had lived. I never knew him as I was born ten months after he died. I felt instantly at ease with him and felt love and peace radiating from his presence. He said 'come on, I am taking you with me for a while as you are very afraid.' He took my hand and the next thing I knew we were in outer space staring at the earth as it revolved. I remember seeing a cord coming from my body and reaching all the way to the earth. He remarked how beautiful the earth was and asked me if I felt better and then suddenly he said, 'You must go back now.' I awoke vomiting into a pan.

What is remarkable about this is that I saw the earth long before we had space travel and I never saw the earth that way again until the first shots were broadcast on television when the moon walk occurred.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1960  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Surgery-related       Other Intense fear and panic.  I was under anesthesia so I can't be sure if I was having a reaction.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I could see the atmosphere around the earth and watched the clouds swirling around the seas and continents. I could see the cord attaching me to earth extend all the way back to the planet.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was in outer space holding hands with the spiritual being.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see the atmosphere around the earth and watched the clouds swirling around the seas and continents. I could see the cord attaching me to earth extend all the way back to the planet.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I will never forget the intense clanging of the bells.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a white and filmy tunnel and I felt slightly claustrophobic for an instant.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See above narrative.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I didn't see a light but I felt like I passed into lightness. It is so hard to describe and I was only ten.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, wonderment, love, and peace.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Unwavering faith in life after death.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Unwavering faith in life after death.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That there is so much more than we know beyond our physical limitations.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I know there is so much more to 'being' than just what we know of on earth in our physical bodies. I try to live my life in a more meaningful way and desire to make a positive difference before I die.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   No one I knew had ever had an experience like mine or had discussed it. So, I didn't have any context into which to put what I saw and heard. I didn't know or understand what happened except that it was exactly what I needed at the time it was happening.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I have always felt that my deceased brother has been watching over me my entire life. The being I was with just felt like the comforting presence I have always sensed around me.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my mother on the way home from the hospital. She replied that I had a dream. Years later, she confessed she believed me at the time but didn't want to confuse me. Mother had had her own NDE when she was pregnant with me and undergoing anesthesia for a dental experience. She said she flew out of her body into a corner of the room and watched the dentist panic for an instant. My husband refuses to believe me and thinks I shouldn't talk about this for fear people will think I am 'nuts.' Deep down, I think he really does believe me but my experience is at odds with his belief that there is nothing after death. I really don't talk about this and I hesitated for a long time before deciding to share my experience on-line.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was so long ago, I can't really remember. I think I was just so confused I didn't want to think about it for a while.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     In the 1970s, I first came across literature describing NDE and when I read about tunnels and bells, I cannot begin to express how excited I got. It just confirmed my experience in a way I cannot describe. To read narratives from strangers articulating what I felt and saw prior to being in space was very validating.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1suki_m_possible_nde.html