{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1susan_c_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Susan C Probable NDE 5268","mylang":"de"}
          	        Susan C Probable NDE 5268  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Susan C Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2761 Susan C Probable NDE 5268  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember having a hard time breathing, like there was a heavy weight on my chest. But I was sleepy, and since I thought that breathing was automatic and could not possibly stop if I fell asleep, I went ahead and fell asleep. I did stop breathing. 

I was immediately aware that I was in a different place, in a room somewhere, lying all alone on a stone floor or level slab, and very, very comfortable. It didn't hurt my back to lie flat without a pillow under my knees, like I usually have to do. Anyway, I was lying on this slab, with my hands crossed over my chest like an Egyptian. All around me was dark, but I was bathed in the bright light of a spotlight. The room was the perfect temperature, and I felt no pain whatsoever. I was so comfortable, I didn't want to leave. 

I could hear someone calling my name from far away, and a face or two would appear when I surfaced, but then they would be gone again. I later found out that the faces were the nurses trying to revive me, shouting my name and doing the sternum rub on me.  I didn't want to come back. I just wanted to stay there, where there was no pain or sadness.

Of course, they did revive me, and I was covered with bruises from their trying physical pain to bring me back.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was in the hospital and had just come out of surgery. They over sedated me, and I stopped breathing.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I am not sure - I felt alert during the whole thing - I think.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a spotlight, coming from above me, bathing me in this light. The rest of the room was in darkness.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I believe that I was reviewing a past life experience I had in Epypt

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Incredible peace and happiness, like I used to feel as a child: safe, pain-free and happy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Pagan

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now firmly believe in reincarnation, and lean toward a Buddhist view of life and death.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Pagan

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now firmly believe in reincarnation, and lean toward a Buddhist view of life and death.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that I was lying with my hands crossed over my chest like an Egyptian Mummy.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I saw this experience as 'definitely real' right from the start.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still see the experience as 'definitely real.' It *was* real, and I always hold that feeling of happiness and peace close to my heart. I call up that feeling of peace during hard times, when I need something to comfort me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1susan_c_probable_nde.html