{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sue_ann_nde.html","mytitle":"Sue Ann NDE 7632","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sue Ann NDE 7632  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sue Ann NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3917 Sue Ann NDE 7632  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In the ambulance, I remember telling the emergency medical technician (EMT) while on the way to the hospital, that 'I'm dying; I can feel that I'm going.' She yelled, 'no, no, no, you’re not! Stay with me!' I even heard the machine I was connected start beeping as I flat-lined. 

The next thing I know, I'm in a bright light but it doesn't sting my eyes. Even the ground was light. I looked to my right and saw three identical, humanoid beings but they were very old. They seemed to be connected as one. They wore a robe with flower petals and feathers that were falling around them. My spirit spoke for me telepathically to the beings. My soul knew the questions I needed to ask, which centered on why I have endured so much heartache and hardships. He answered telepathically, 'You have chosen every path you have taken; everything that has happened was directly related to your choices. You will rejoice in every experience one day, but it isn't your time yet.' Next, I was in a cathedral and surrounded by people I couldn't recognize because my own light was too bright. They all began to talk at once. I yelled, 'One at a time! I don't understand you.' 

Then I woke up. The EMT was giving me CPR. I remember my first breath because it was the hardest thing I have ever done, taking in air for the first time after being dead. My doctor was amazed showing me where I flat lined. He said 95% of people don't come back from being gone as long as I was. Even more amazing, I had no organ damage. I was only gone 20 seconds. I remained in critical condition for three days but have made a full recovery.",When I was before the three beings. I'm certain I was before God.,More consciousness and alertness than normal, I was experiencing telepathy and understanding of things so clearly.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  January 19, 2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack. Allergic reaction. Drug or medication overdose. CPR given.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I took medication that sped up my heart. I went into cardiac arrest due to an undiagnosed heart defect.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was experiencing telepathy and understanding of things so clearly.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was before the three beings. I'm certain I was before God.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was normal

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I only heard voices in the cathedral. It was like a crowded room with everyone talking.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I couldn't see their faces because my light was too bright. I was unsure.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I saw god, Jesus, and the holy ghost im sure of it. Even though he didn't introduce themselves. I knew they were one. It's hard to explain.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     He told me I made the decision to become human to be alive that I will rejoice in a higher understanding and will tell my story to others when I return. That life is a precious gift. Not all get to experience.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I was before him right away. He was three. Very ancient looking.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   To simply experience life happy, sad, or whatever it may be. To make good decisions and build your life around a purpose. To strive for goodness and to be happy.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     To experience life, to build a path. To make our own purposes. To be happy to love, to feel even pain. That these things and experience are specific to being alive.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     We are products of our own choices. Our free will.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately with my doctor. He was amazed and felt I was special.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   TV

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I remember it as if it just happened

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I had a child that was murdered 4 years prior. I also grew up being abused and unloved.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sue_ann_nde.html