{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1sue_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Sue D NDE 5275","mylang":"de"}
          	        Sue D NDE 5275  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Sue D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Shared NDE  			2766 Sue D NDE 5275  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was much younger then - in reality, maybe eighteen. I came out of my body. I could see the family around my bed crying. I was sucked into a tunnel that was incredibly noisy, and was shot out into the light - the golden light! I can remember thinking that my heart was exploding into millions of particles and that I was melting into the universal One of LOVE. That's all there was - 'LOVE.' A golden glowing LOVE that was so intense that I felt my heart wouldn't be able to contain it all.

Then somebody spoke to me in a loud voice. It was my dad. He said I had to go back because my mission wasn't over yet.

I fell back into my body in the bed, with a great sadness. My soul was totally sad, and I could not explain what had just happened to me. I remember getting up out of bed and wondering if I was going to die.

The next morning I found out that my dad was in the intensive care unit and had had a massive heart attack. He pulled through and lived for four more years after that. He, by some uncanny transfer, enabled me to live a NDE without going through the death stuff, for particular reasons. I did not see my life pass before my eyes, because I wasn't dying - he was. But the rest happened.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1980

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Other My Dad was dying from a massive heart attack in the States  For my Dad, not for me. I was simply asleep in France, and he was in the intensive care unit in the States when this happened. I didn't find out until the next day that he had had a heart attack!!!

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   All throughout the experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All throughout the experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Traveling at the speed of light.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Perceptions were different: sounds seemed louder, colors, warmer.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Louder.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a noisy, dark tunnel, but the light was waiting for me at the end of it.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a sphere of warm golden light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Intense LOVE!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     All comes from within. We, and only we, can do the work to complete our mission.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     All comes from within. We, and only we, can do the work to complete our mission.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   God is One, the One is Love, that's all there is. We fold back into the One.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I know this is a temporary situation. The desire to be one is very important. Meditation helps me to relive the experience.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I lived the experience instead of my dad!!!! He was the one who was dying.  Someone spoke to me in a loud voice and said I needed to come back. It was my Dad! He said I hadn't finished my mission yet.  I experienced Heaven, the One - God.  It was hard to explain to people, especially when you tell them that it was so incredible that you wanted to stay there instead of coming back.  I fell back into my body with a great sadness.  My dad survived and lived for four more years; but, through this experience, he gave me an incredible gift.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Higher sensorial perception.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I realized that we spend most of our lives trying to be the mirrors of that eternal love from which we stem. We are each born with a spark of it. One does not know one is 'one,' unless one can see 'oneself' in some kind of mirror. We have one objective in life - to build a love bank to take back with us into the Universal ONE.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My family recently rejected me totally for telling them this story. They aren't speaking to me anymore. And my Dad died four years after the experience. I recently wrote a book about this experience, and now I would like to give conferences about it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Shortly after it happened, I saw the experience as 'definitely real.' I felt very sad, and even depressed, being away from the source of that intense LOVE.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still see the experience as 'definitely real.'

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       So far, I have never heard anyone else tell a story about living the NDE experience for someone else, as their gift to us.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sue_d_nde.html