{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stuart_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Stuart C NDE 8240","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stuart C NDE 8240  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stuart C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4309 Stuart C NDE 8240  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was  my day off and I was travelling to pick up a friend to spend the day with. I was approaching an intersection and had to turn right. When I started to apply the brakes, something happened with them causing the car to slide. Later when looking at the road and accident site there were three black lines from the tires and one long silver gouge from something that had dug into the road. 
  				    
  When I left the road, I was travelling  diagonal to the flow of traffic into a 6-7foot deep ditch at around 50mph and had no control of the car. The last thing I remember, before what I have been told was my NDE, was the sound and vision of the impact. I must add that I always wore my seatbelt.

  My NDE, as I remember it, started with me seeing all the blades of grass, the dirt/soil and the small bushes as clearly as if I were within inches of them.  I had perfect vision and in such clear clarity, it was amazing. Within a couple of minutes, I found myself in a pitch dark area that felt like a large room, I wasn't moving but I could see a pin prick of light that was getting closer. Soon I realized that I was in a tunnel and that the light was moving towards me. I wasn't scared of the light as it was peaceful andor calming. I did sense other people but didn't feel a need or want to speak or let them know I was there.
  
  As the light got closer to me, a person came out from the tunnel wall and stood in front of me.  As I focused on the figure, I realized that it was my granddad who had passed several years ago. At that time I still blamed myself for his passing. He told me that it wasn't my time and to go back.
  
  The next thing that I remember was collapsing on the edge of the road and holding my chest. I don't know how I got out of the car or  how I got my seatbelt off. I somehow lost time. I was taken to the hospital, given tests and released. My parents picked me up from the hospital and we stopped back at the accident site. Unless you were looking down the ditch you would have driven past without seeing the car.   I still have no idea how long I was away from my body, even if I did leave it. But something did happen and only now do I want to share it without fear of feeling crazy.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.         Serious car accident

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Everything was so clear and calm

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After the impact

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     I didn't have any feeling of time

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was perfect vision, everything was really clear

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Crystal clear

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     First it was a large room. It seemed to transform into a tunnel

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My granddad

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Started as a pin prick light that seemed to get closer

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place.     A dark room that seemed to change into a tunnel

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete calm and peace

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I had researched into ghosts and the afterlife. I never believed it until after the accident

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   My granddad.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Not sure

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I didn't experience anything other than a room, tunnel, and my granddad.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I met my granddad who had passed several years before. I knew that something was beyond what I, at the time thought was our only plain of existance

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     That there is something beyond our life as we know it

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     I know that I felt love and peace more than I had or have since the accident

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life.     I know that an afterlife exists which has changed my outlook on life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more cautious about sharing this information with people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I had not spoken about it for many years due to the fear of seeing the accident again in my mind, or feeling like I had made it up or feeling as if I crazy.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience. I remember it as if it was an hour ago, I chose to lock it away due to feeling crazy

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am, at times able to see spirits and communicate with them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Knowing my granddad is 'alive' and not in pain anymore.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I spoke with my therapist about it yesterday. Talked to my mom and dad about it once.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was there.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I was there and can still relate to it as though it was yesterday. But without the pain of the accident.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Nothing I can think of. Other than speaking to my therapist made me want to now share my experience with others

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Nothing I can think of        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stuart_c_nde.html