{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1story_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Story C NDE 3664","mylang":"de"}
          	        Story C NDE 3664  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Story C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1668 Story C NDE 3664  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was overdue, I had the flu I took aspirin for flu relief, unaware of the danger. I was rushed into surgery; the doctors did not know that I had been taking aspirin. The last thing I remember was the doctor yelling, 'Come on hurry! We are going to lose them!' I did not know it was my 9 lb. son and me that he was talking about. I was rushing through beautiful colors, all at once my paternal grandmother stood in front of me. She was beautiful, dressed in a beautiful white gown, behind her there was a veil, like looking through lace curtain with other beings milling about. She told me I could not stay, I wanted to stay I felt so wonderful. She told me I had to go back and care for my babies (I had a two year old also). The next thing I remember is waking up in the intensive care unit with a sweet oriental nurse sitting with me, telling me I had to stay awake and see my beautiful baby boy.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 9 1954

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related. Childbirth    Other 'A sudden enormous loss of blood, no blood pressure, stopped breathing, heart erratic, etc.'  Cannot describe.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was so amazing I do not know how to describe it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It was so amazing I do not know how to describe it.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I cannot.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    This will sound strange, it was as though, oh gosh, well like communicating without needing ears or a mouth. We just knew what the other was thinking, I think.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Like moving rapidly through a rainbow.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were behind a veil; I could not make them out, but felt a connection with all of them.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I do not know if you have never been in a plane when it climbs very high out of darkness and a storm and into astonishing bright light and beautiful sunset colors that are similar.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It was like it was a normal pleasant experience.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was a young mother with two babies to care for, didn't have time to think about it until I was mature enough to really be fascinated and filled with wonder regarding the experience and feeling so truly blessed for it.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Methodist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There is nothing on earth to compare it to.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have been able to strongly sense the presence of danger or extreme evil near me, my loved ones or strangers, which I thought was intuition when I was young. As I grew older, so much so that I prayed to God to take away my gift to see murders and murderers. He did.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Strange, not at the time. Later as I studied the Bible it became perfectly clear, no doubt about it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Five years later I told my husband's grandmother, a sweet little religious lady. She believed every word. My mom and aunt, both intensive care unit nurses, said many things happen that cannot be explained. For the past twenty years, I have shared this experience with mothers who have lost a child (accidents) they have thanked me repeatedly. Also have shared with those afraid of death, same reaction.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I didn't think about it until years later, it just seemed to me like it was a normal thing.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because it happened I have not and will never ever forget it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Only persons who have lost all vital signs can relate to this experience. They can study how it happens but will never be able to do so; it is in another dimension unknown to none but GOD.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, I believe it is an excellent questionnaire. The most accurate I have ever read, thank you.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1story_c_nde.html