{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stuart_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Stuart F NDE 4622  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\tNDE due to drowning at age six. Shared sixty-five years later.<\/span>\">","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stuart F NDE 4622  		  		  		  		  		NDE due to drowning at age six. Shared sixty-five years later.</span>">      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stuart F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2339 Stuart F NDE 4622  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I do not remember having a problem with the water, or breathing, or any panic. I just 'all of a sudden' was in a great bright, cloudy, very blue skies, area and I was standing on what one might call an escalator and it was going up. It was very pretty and I was as calm as you can be. There was no sound. Nothing was moving, I did not see any other persons, but the area was huge like standing in the middle of a desert except that it was white clouds and blue background.

I have forgotten much about the period before I went swimming, and remember little about the immediate afterward except that once the water came out of me and I regained consciousness I was surrounded by aunts all hugging and kissing. They were all terrified. I had no idea what had happened except that it was nice.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1945

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    'I was a non-swimmer in a river with my cousins.  We were under the supervision of aunts. I am told that I was bobbing up and down and my aunt came in and pulled me out.  Apparently, I was drowning but there was no pain.  I do not remember the swimming pa  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Going up the escalator. It was not a mechanical thing; it was just me going up without walking.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Well it seemed like I could see for miles, and it was all white clouds and blue. No buildings, no animals, no people, nothing except me moving upward.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No sounds at all.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Not a point light. But everything was incredibly bright and light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calmness, high interest in the event.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Hey, I was only six!

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   I was six.  I do not believe I knew anything other than God is good.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'Lapsed Catholic.  I believe strongly in the ten commandments, but little else of the church's ''extra rules.'''

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   But of course, it was the view of a six year old.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately I told my family. I do not think I told anyone else for several decades, but I have never forgotten those few minutes.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Dreams are dreams, but this was way too real to be a dream.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Small point, we all have dreams, but I doubt that anyone remembers specific dreams that occurred when they were six sixty-five years later.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stuart_f_nde.html