{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1steven_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Steven S NDE 3370","mylang":"de"}
          	        Steven S NDE 3370  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Steven S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1317 Steven S NDE 3370  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The third strike of the club put me down to the floor almost instantly. I felt no fear no pain it felt really comfortable not breathing. I felt safe and protected and like I wanted to stay in this state of euphoria. Then a dark space drew me in. Straight after that, I was drawn in to a really bright light where it seemed my whole life flashed by in clips. I mean everything, in seconds. After seeing this, I didn't want to stay here any more. (However comfortable it was.) It felt like I had something I had to come back and do, something to live for, it also felt that something didn't want me to pass over yet. At that point, I heard a voice, I don't know whose it was, unfamiliar, it said calmly, 'You can either stay down and die or stand up and live.' I was given a choice. I took my choice to stand up and live and then felt someone pull my arm through all this. I was completely paralyzed until I felt the pull on my arm. Then I regained mobility and stood up for some reason during all this I was aware of my surroundings.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/8/05

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Direct head injury  attacked i was hit in the head with a golf club 3 times  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Someone tried to kill me with a golf club by striking me in the head.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Towards the end.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Towards the end.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was as if time had stopped for me, like I had all the time in the world but things were happening really fast.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Things went blurry then clear then fast then slow but I was very aware.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Through darkness into light wasn't a tunnel more like a space enclosure.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I didn't see anyone but someone was there, I felt a presence and heard a voice.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A really bright hazy light around the outside and such a bright light in the middle almost a creamy color.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     i was definitely somewhere else i don't know where but it wasn't earth like a different level of being

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Interest, happy, safe, warm, it was a really good experience.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Only the fact that there is so much out there to learn and a desire to attain understanding and knowledge of life and things in life.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I knew I wasn't going to die after this I wasn't scared I knew I would have my operation wake up and get on the road to recovery.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I'm not sure there are so many different religions out there it's not easy to say if I believe in one. All I know is I have faith that there is something out there, I've had firsthand experience and I don't need to prove it to nobody.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   I know something exists i just don't know what

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I'm not sure there are so many different religions out there it's not easy to say if I believe in one. All I know is I have faith that there is something out there, I've had firsthand experience and I don't need to prove it to nobody.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Only to acquire as much knowledge and understanding about life before it ends.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm a different person to the one I was. My personality changed and I now get angry with people because they don't understand me my theories or the way I look at things.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Things I talk about or mention or people I talk about who I haven't seen for years. Appear or happen too often to be coincidence and small insights.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, my choice and will to live and the knowledge acquired from this experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have been with certain people on more than one occasion when this has happened and they think themselves that it is more than coincidence, they used to get freaked out but now are used to it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     To be honest it didn't sink in for months it was so unexplainable at the time but now it is clear.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I don't know how to put this in words.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I'm just thankful that I had it and it wasn't a bad experience at all it was enlightening. I think if everyone went through a NDE, at some point in their life, people would understand the purpose of life the understanding of it and how precious it is and to make the most of it before it's gone. My motto is love life and die well.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1steven_s_nde.html