{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1steven_t_nde_7519.html","mytitle":"Steven T NDE 7519","mylang":"de"}
          	        Steven T NDE 7519  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Steven T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3845 Steven T NDE 7519  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I have only told a few people about this, because I thought no one would believe me. This really did happen to me in 1986.

When I was leading the race, the flagman gave the lay over flag to a car I was approaching. The car came down on me, out of turn four and I struck the big tires on the corner. The impact sent my car up high into the air and landed directly on the roof. I felt a thud to my head.  The first thing I remember was coming to consciousness in the car, but at the same time, I felt as if I was floating in the air above the car.  I was looking down at what was happening with the fire and rescue team responding. I felt nothing physically, but could see myself grabbing at my chest. 

I was seeing two viewpoints one from inside the car and the other view from floating in the air. I knew the car was on fire but could not move to try to get out of the car. One of my pit-crew ripped the hood open with his bare hands, so the firefighters could get to the flames. Rescue members that were inside the car with me had to get out of the car.  The fire extinguishers they were using had filled the inside of the car so bad they could not breathe. Again, I was watching this while floating in the air.  Today, this is still a very vivid memory. 

Next, a rescue member jumped back into the car.  With one kick, he knocked out the windshield allowing air to get back to inside the car. I continued to watch from both viewpoints while thinking that these guys are tearing up my car. When I came back to life, I first saw the lamps in the ambulance getting brighter and brighter and started thinking to myself, ‘Am I on my way to heaven?’ I spent the night in a hospital and was told that my oxygen levels were so low that I should not be alive. The next morning, still in critical condition, the doctors told me to remain in the hospital because my levels were not stable.  But being hard headed, I told them I wanted to go home. It was not until I was writing this that I realized that a picture taken that night, the 6th picture from photographer J.C. Jones.  It is the same spot that I was floating from, about ten feet from this ground photo. 

https://www.facebook.com/pages/Nashville-Fairgrounds-Racing-History/260554360680584    

I remember that I felt no pain, no worries.  I was at peace knowing that I was in God's hands. Nashville Fairgrounds Racing History shared this on my Facebook page Sept 16, 2014. I did retire after this year due to family pressures on me, but I am again back on the track, on God's track, to compete with my son. Thanks be to God to all those that kept me alive, I will never forget what everyone did for me then and now. God Bless and have a great day.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Auguest 15, 1986

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   Was told by Hospital staff my oxygen levels were so low, I should be dead.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The facts have been checked out  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Wasn't sure I would live or die, was strapped down on gurney so I could not move.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I came-to in the ambulance

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Very Clear

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing was good, not mixed.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   When I came-to the lights in ambulance were getting Brighter and Brighter, I thought I was on my way to heaven, but felt teardrops from my wife, that was the first feeling I remember.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and no pain.  Emergency Medical Technician said I was grasping at my chest.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Had accepted Jesus and Baptized at 13 years old

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Tried 4 times to commit suicide, Last April a good Doctor got into my head and told me that I knew Christ but did not know God. Be completely healed and back on the racetrack racing with my son. I’m also on track with God.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Tried 4 times to commit suicide, Last April a good Dr. got into my head and told me that I knew Christ but did not know God. Be completely healed and back on the race track racing with my son. (back on track with God)

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     remember thinking I was going to heaven.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     Felt Loved

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     4 time suicide survivor.     Large changes in my life     4 time suicide survivor.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Not at first, but my family made me quit Racing after that year.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was the next day, I told my wife and my Pit Crew what happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It’s still a very vivid memory, with great details.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Many photos of accident taking place.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1steven_t_nde_7519.html