{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1steward_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Steward P NDE 8230","mylang":"de"}
          	        Steward P NDE 8230  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Steward P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4302 Steward P NDE 8230  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I am an avid handball player who has always joked about being on a handball court when I die. Its humorous to me now because I had the opportunity this day to meet the Venice Beach Champion and challenged him to a one on one game. I had already defeated one of the east coast champs back home in the Bronx, so I could not miss this opportunity to play a west coast great. The game was intense and I did struggle to win this best out of three comp. With two wins and a new friend, I walked away victorious. I had kept my promise to myself to play the best on both coasts and win. I am not a trophy guy, so just shaking the champs hand after a great couple of sets is all that I need. 

  				  As I walked toward my bag on the fence, my foot crossed over the the court boundaries.  I started to immediately feel dizzy. Since I look at the world through the eyes of a 10-year old, I started to analyze this weird feeling. I noticed that my eyesight was blacked out in both eyes, except for vision through a small radial of both eyeball perimeters. I then felt the pressure of falling backwards and slamming on concrete floor, but I felt no pain. Through the limited perimeter of my eyesight, I could see in bits and pieces. There were feet running around me and people also yelling and running from the basketball courts to help those who where trying to help me.  

  				  While on the floor, sound just dissipated and I noticed my sport bag on the fence with only the sight vision allowed me from this peculiar radial view. I stretched out my arm for it. In the time it took to blink, I was on another plane of existence. It was a plane of pure and energized milky-white light. I had a  feeling of love and contentment while embraced by this milky-white light environment which was supporting my floating body. But me being analytical, I could not see my body.  I felt no pain. I wanted to close my eyes and relax in this most beautiful state of perfection.  But, I am a creature of habit and I questioned myself, 'Am I dead? Where am I? I want so much to stay here so much, I feel so great, but why?' Then my wife's lovely face came into my head, if I had one.  I screamed out loud, 'My Wife, My Wife! She's alone, all alone, please send me back, please dear God, send me back home. She needs me!'  

  				  After that scream or thought, I awoke in an ambulance. I was  being pumped with fluids for what seemed as a 'time stood still moment' but later was told to me that it was a 15 minute drive from the park to the hospital. All I know is that I am so thankful that I did not leave me wife alone in California. I was granted permission to come home for her. I felt that all my sins were forgiven and that my purpose here was not yet served. My wife did not know where I was for three days. I had experienced a severe anyfilactic attack. My body-parts shut down, one by one to protect the organs from external sources that invaded my body; like an allergen cocktail with every allergen mixed together pushing my threshold beyond its boundaries. 

  				  From that day, I carry a pin and loratadine. I came back to earth, but I came back different. I am now a Buddhist and  study many types of creation theories as well as ancient archaeology subjects. I am also now a sensitive. I may have been one already, but this experience charged me up. Now I'm a dowser, have studied hypnotherapy, and I am a paranormal investigator who uses my gift now to detect presence. I no longer climb the corp ladder and money is not as important as it use to be. I am with my wife of 40 years and thank God for his mercy and his gift.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  may 2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         Competing in a handball game at local courts.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?   I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.     I had clear thoughts, focus, the feeling of love, intelligence, compassion and empathy.  There was no pain at all.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       during the experience and after I came back. I was a new 'me'.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.  It felt like eternal, the perfection of my state was tranquil with no urgency to want to leave until my wife face popped in my minds eye.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was more a third-eye experience, like a projector

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard the words but they were unspoken, like a soft stereo in an empty room.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain.  From point of life to standing in the mist, there was a quick instant that transpired but is a bit foggy.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   like a brightly-lit, milky mist-type fog

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love and caring. The light understood me, like it read my heart.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     We are connected in a pitrie dish of immense size and dimension

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic.  I was raised in Roman Catholic schools and study, but have studied Buddha and General Christanity

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Searching for the truth behind the religion

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Buddhist.   Since then I have been studying many various concepts of the making of the human entity.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I look at other experiences with an objective eye. I can feel people and entities.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Everyone is important

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   it did not use words. It used emotion.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     the fact that I mentally asked for my wife out of my love for her and felt the acknowledgement that who or whatever was sharing this emotion with me

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   to share the positive light through my interaction with people

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     I felt like I had a choice to stay or go back. Don't know how, but it was assumed.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes, I felt that the reason I was given a chance to come back, was because I had concern for another rather than  a material thing or venture. I have been sharing with people since that day.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I was engulfed in love and light. I shared mine with those  I could not see and they shared theirs with me and that I could feel.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     I am still seeking truth be it religious or interpreted as religious.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?         Yes, I do not chase profit as I used too. I enjoy my time with wife and family. I teach managers empathy and rarely get upset.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I remember this experience better than any experience in my life.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes.     Although I had street intuition before, I have developed a solid foundation of a sensitive nature which I have used in paranormal research. I have even help a spirit move forward and away from an aggressive spirit after an attachment. I would have never have been involved in this type of activity before the experience.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that I sincerely asked to come back and I was granted permission.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes.  I shared  right away and   many, many times. Many believe me, others want to believe, and a few can not believe.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   just passing subjects. Went to Roman Catholic schools

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     Immediately I was fascinated and wanted to experience everything. I did not expect to be returned and I was ready to stay once I accepted that I was dead.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     A chance of a lifetime, to glimpse into another state of existence.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am awakened from my sleep.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Would you do it again, knowing what you know now?  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1steward_p_nde.html