{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1steven_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Steven T NDE 2956","mylang":"de"}
          	        Steven T NDE 2956  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Steven T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1043  Steven T NDE  2956  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  All of a sudden I'm in an extremely bright and white room with a large wooden table in the center of this room. Chiseled in the center of the table was an unknown design. (No other articles in the room whatsoever.) Sitting at the table were three knights (like during the crusades with the large red cross on the clothing). Two were sitting side by side with their backs to me. The third was sitting across from the two. All three had their armor helmets resting on the table just to the right of each one of them. They never acknowledged my presence, so I don't know if they saw me or not. The knight sitting by himself stated with a firm voice, 'We need him now.' One of the knights with his back to me stood up, slammed his fist on the table and shouted, 'No, it is not his time!' Immediately after this, I came back to life after being defibrillated two times. I immediately said to my wife who was at my side (she was a registered nurse at that hospital), 'I got to tell you what just happened to me.'

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 6-10-97  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My heart was in ventricular fibrillation and then stopped completely.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I remember the entire incident as if it happened yesterday.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I remember the entire incident as if it happened yesterday.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clarity colors brightness.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Clarity and loudness with a slight echo.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Just the brightness of the room. I remember seeming to squint for a brief period until I adjusted to the brightness.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     The bright room  had a special feeling about it  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt special, as an important decision was being made about me.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   non practicing Catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Christian  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt like there was something I had to do or finish before I died.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I was a work first then family guy, but know I know that nothing is more important than family.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I found the experience very special, more so because I have never had any interest in the Crusades, knights or the medieval period.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Shared with my wife about one hour after the experience. She was fascinated with my recount of what I had experienced. Not sure if she was influenced in any way.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Again because it involved people in a time in history that I had no particular interest. That made me know it was real.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above but also. Six years after my NDE I found the symbol that was carved in the table during my NDE. I was watching a commercial of the Freemasons and spotted the Masonic Symbol (the compass and square).  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1steven_t_nde.html