{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1steven_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Steven L NDE 7890","mylang":"de"}
          	        Steven L NDE 7890  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Steven L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4086 Steven L NDE 7890  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I came home from work really late in the morning around 3 in the morning. I had to get up early that morning because I had to go to the bank and it was a Saturday. I went in got my paycheck cashed then I went to a restaurant and had a wonderful meal. Then I drove back into town on the service street to go to a counseling appointment because I was trying to get my life back together.

I came underneath the overpass of the freeway and I was coming to the intersection where the green light was in my favor. I looked and no one was in the intersection. I got probably a quarter of the way into the intersection and I noticed out of my peripheral on my left side this driver was going at a very, very high rate of speed. They later estimated his speed to be about 65 or 75 miles per hour.

He impacted the driver’s side of my car and that slid me around the telephone pole probably about 10 to 15 feet away. My car was literally wrapped around the pole.

The car I was in had a separate lap belt from the shoulder belt. The lap belt was literally cutting into my body and all I remember after looking at my windshield and seeing it all crashed out was this young man. I don’t know who he was, he was in blue coveralls. He reached through the car, looked and saw that the lap belt was cutting into me. He grabbed onto the lap belt and pulled it away from me, probably about 5 to 6 inches and I know for a fact that lap belt was locked so you couldn’t have done that. He took a knife and he slit the lap belt and removed it.

From there, I blacked out again.

Next thing I know there is a paramedic sitting in the passenger seat with me talking to me really softly. He told me he was going to put a surgical collar on me and he does. Then he tells me about the jaws of life and how they are going to have to cut the car away from me to get me out of the car.

I said, 'okay' and he managed to remove my left arm which was locked in like a death grip on the steering wheel. He placed my hand in my lap and put a sheet over me and he climbed under the sheet with me and he told me that I was going to hear some noise. I heard some loud noise outside the car. The jaws of life were pretty hard and it shook the car.

The driver’s door popped open within a few minutes. They laid a backboard in the car and the paramedic says, 'We got blood.' I didn’t know where I was bleeding from or what I was bleeding from. I had a scalp laceration but what I believed was I had blood coming out of my ear. I was literally dying right there.

They laid me carefully on the backboard and taped my head to the backboard and then put the backboard on a gurney. They wheeled me probably about 15 feet away to the ambulance. I remember that the backdoors to the ambulance were open. I also remember that it was so bright that I told the paramedics that I needed to close my eyes. He said that I needed to keep my eyes open. I told him that I needed to close my eyes and I closed my eyes and I remember a bump going back into the ambulance and the ambulance disappeared.

I remember seeing myself above the ambulance. I saw where the accident was, where the police cars were, where the fire department officials were, the people cleaning up the glass. I even saw where the guy that hit me was, his car. I saw them working on him, getting his road rash on his arm from the airbag and that was it.

Next thing I know, it’s like Star Trek in a warp speed kind of thing. I was literally flown, maybe flown is not a good word. I was transported fast into the light.

I went into this room that had no dimensions but had a 360 degree movie screen around me. These light bodies came up to me. This one light body came up to me and looked at me and asked me one question 4 times.

Throughout this whole entire time I am watching my whole entire life review going on all around me and I’m thinking, 'OK, this is not a good thing. I’m seeing everybody I’m beating up. I’m seeing everybody I’m yelling at, lying to. I’m watching their faces and their faces are morphing into me so I’m lying to myself or I am beating myself up or stealing from myself.'

This light being is asking me these 4 questions and the questions are, 'Who are you?'

I told the person who I was.

I told them straight out who I was. I’m Steven.

The light being shook their head and asked me again, 'Who are you?'

I had went into the light angry and I was pissed that I died. I felt I had more stuff to do on the earth. I was really violently angry so I told the light body this. I said, 'Don’t you (censored) know who I am?'

I told him who I was again.

He went, 'Who are you?'

I’m saying he but I don’t know if it was a he or she.

I’m watching my whole life flash before my eyes and it’s starting to sink in who I am. I tried to tell him what job I did.

The light being asked me for the fourth time, 'Who are you?'

I finally said the most intelligent thing in the world. I said, 'I don’t know. I don’t know who I am.'

The light being nodded its head and it said, 'You are love. That’s all you are. You are nothing more than love.'

The anger that I had washed completely away from me. I looked at my life image and I judged myself as not worthy to be there. I asked and I said, 'I’d like to stay.'

They said, 'Maybe another time, but not now. You have a mission to do on the Earth and you must do it. No one else can do it but you.'

I thought about it and I said, 'Ok. I’ll do it.'

My mission is basically to share my story down here on the Earth, to tell everybody that they are love too. I told the light body that I would do my mission. It said, 'We will be in touch once more.'

Next thing I know I’m feeling cold metal on my back and I thought that was an odd feeling. Then I heard this man’s voice on my right side where most of the damage to my body was and he said, 'Ok, you’re back with us. You’re going to hear some noise. Don’t worry, you’re safe.'

Then I heard this 'SHOOP' sound going through my head. And what I found out was they were stapling my scalp back together.

I spent about 8 hours in the trauma room, at least my body did. I would say I spent about 2 and a half hours in the light. My whole life before and my whole life now are totally different.

In 2011, I was meditating one time and I heard this voice in my head say Hello. I thought I was going crazy. I was going to call a psychiatrist and tell him to please put me on some medicine.

This voice came into my head and said, 'Hello. It is time. Your mission is now.'

And then I remembered. I remembered everything that happened with the accident. I remembered what I needed to do. And I have literally been sharing this with whoever will hear me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.     Direct head injury.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Car accident

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I could see things more clearly and feel them.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was speaking with the light beings.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Heightened vision

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Heightened hearing

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Anger at first and then acceptance.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more compassionate.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   See Experience

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     We are LOVE.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Purpose is to share my story.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     An afterlife definitely exists

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No     We are LOVE.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     We are LOVE.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There were not words to describe what I saw.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I began telling people in 2011.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I came across Moody's book a long time ago but I dismissed it as garbage.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Medication      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1steven_l_nde.html