{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1steven_r_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Steven R Probable NDE 190","mylang":"de"}
          	        Steven R Probable NDE 190  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Steven R Probable NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1430 Steven R Probable NDE 190  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The day before my emergency operation I felt sick. The next day on August 25, 1967, I woke up in great pain, doubled-over. My mother rushed me to the doctor; he saw me and said I had a burst appendix. Mom drove me to the hospital two miles down the road, while I lay in the back seat of the car in so much pain I thought I was going to die. The hospital prepared me immediately for emergency surgery. The last thing I remember before I fell unconscious was I was apologizing to the nurse while I lay on the table, for uncontrollably letting go of my bowels. Sometime between then and three days or three weeks later (I can't recall) I went into a coma.

My NDE experience was this: I was surrounded instantaneously, by six or seven 'Entities', (maybe Angels) as I was in the middle of them, all of us were in a cloudy mist like fog or clouds, floating in the air, in a grayish-brilliant LIGHT. They were in white robes, but I couldn't see their faces or their feet. None of us was the touching ground.  There was no ground. I realized they all knew me.  They knew who I was and everything about me. I had an overwhelming sense of Great LOVE and Understanding, with no judgment. I was calmer than I had ever been, Peaceful to the maximum. Everything that happened there was INSTANTANEOUS.  It was not slow like here on Earth. We exchanged all information between each other, not with words but by 'mental telepathy'. I asked many questions, they gave me many answers. After these many years, I don't remember most of them, but the last few are unforgettable. They asked me if I wanted to stay with them or if I wanted to come back to Earth? Because everything there was so overwhelmingly wonderful and beautiful, I asked to stay with them. It wasn't until years later, after I realized what happened to me had a name, 'Near-Death-Experience', and that what happened to me was REAL, not a dream, that I remembered then that they 'sent' me back, against my will.

Then I was really MAD! Why did they make me come back, when I wanted to stay?? I felt controlled. Why did they ask me, if the decision wasn't really mine?? OHHHHH I was so MAD!!! Of course, now I know why. My life on EARTH wasn't finished yet. I had a lot to do. I had a lot of learning to get, and I was to help others with this experience. After I regained consciousness, my mother was sitting beside me, in the hospital. She began to cry, when I said, 'I'm hungry'! I wasn't told till later, that the doctors told my parents after my going into my coma, to consider making my funeral arrangements. After I was released from the hospital two weeks later, at home, I couldn't stand the noises!! Everything was SO LOUD!!! Because of 'my profound spiritual experience in my NDE I wouldn't or couldn't talk for two or three weeks. If someone asked me a question, I'd just NOD. I quickly realized that I could read at a very fast speed. I comprehended everything very I quickly. Electrical things would stop working if I came near them. My watch wouldn't run if it was on me. At dusk while playing with the neighborhood kids I'd known for years, we discovered if I walked under a street light, it would go out. The kids said, 'Hay Steve, why don't you run from the beginning of the street to the end, and see if all the lights go out, as you run under them'. I did and that's exactly what happened!!! In school, I didn't have to study anymore. I started having 'premonition dreams'. I would dream something, and then it would happen. On TV. Game shows I would guess answers, I was usually right. I had no FEAR of ANYTHING ANYMORE. Knowing I was never going to die, (that is my spirit) THERE WAS NOTHING TO FEAR!!! I've since had many 'trials and tribulations' in my life like everyone else, but I 'understand' everything. Today, I follow my SPIRIT, MY HEART when I need to know what to do. We humans are a part of everything living -- trees, animals, the universe, everything. Sometimes if I'm walking along somewhere and I see a FLOWER, it's so beautiful to me, I'll start to cry. One of my NDE lessons was that all people are very important, and we are all here to help and learn from each other. My main lesson from my NDE is to tell others (when it's the right time) that there is no reason to fear death or to be afraid of dying, because no one truly dies, we only leave our earthly bodies, and our true-self, our SPIRIT, continues on. This will happen to every person on the EARTH, no matter what you believe or don't believe; no matter if you're Hindu, Christian, or whatever -- this is the way to the spiritual realm for everyone, regardless of what we believe or our religious institutions tell us.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  in a 3 week period around Aug.24,1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  IllnessSurgery-related  Appendix burst. Ill one day before. Fell into coma after operation for 3days or 3weeks,( can't remember how long).   Emergency surgery operation, acute burst appendix. Had several almost NDE's before age 17. drowning(2), choke on food; pass outs(3x's) hit by car. Fell from-   bowling alley ceiling to wood floor(18ft.)etc. etc.  Emergency appendectomy (ruptured appendix).

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I remember very vividly, that even though 'I knew I was in my Spiritual Body', it was like my body on earth, all together. Also I remember that seeing myself in the middle, surrounded by these six or seven 'good entities', I was at the same time looking down on this from above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Every time I had a question for the 'entities', I call them Angels; I immediately had the response by mental telepathy. Very ALERT!! I instantly understood things I couldn't on earth, in my mortal body. This was definitely NO DREAM!!

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed that time there did not exist. There was no time, it didn't matter. Time is man-made, it's here on earth and we use it, but it's not a REAL thing.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    For me, total peace and quietness. The only sound, if you could say there were any, might have been our communication. But I doubt there were any sounds like here on earth.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Six or seven 'Entities' or I like to call them 'ANGELS'. It's possible they were relatives who passed on. I felt very strongly I knew them and they knew me. Couldn't see their faces. A lot of communication by telepathy. I asked questions, they gave answers. Don't remember all now, only some.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was bright and surrounded all of us. To this day I'm very sensitive to light. Especially sunlight. Most of the time even fluorescent lights inside buildings are too bright and hurt my eyes. At home at night, I have to keep the lights low. If my roommate turns them up bright, I can't endure them, and have to turn them down. He can't understand why.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Floated in the air in clouds or foggy stuff. I knew I was in a spiritual dimension, intuitively.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A very heightened sense of all feelings. Overwhelming LOVE, Trust.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     So hard to describe; I came back with an unquenchable desire to go to libraries and learn everything I could about everything I could. I learned about Universal Order and understood things about the solar systems, our planets, our earth etc. I looked at our earth from outer space, (it was as big as a basketball) in space. I remember being asked,' Isn't it beautiful?' by a friend who would die years after my NDE experience. He died in 1987.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   They asked me if I wanted to go back. I didn't want to come back. But they sent me back.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Yes I learned a lot. Yes, no FEAR. We are all a part of this UNIVERSE. Everything is intertwined. Must help other people always.  I've become a 'Spiritual-Universalist'. I was taught that no one is less or better than anyone else. I'm to respect ALL people. Religion is okay, but spirituality is more important. God, (the supreme authority) doesn't care about our religions, we'll all get there regardless, of what we are taught or think. What we do or think doesn't change The Universal Laws.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Trying to explain a 'spiritual Experience' in words is very difficult.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Premonition dreams that came true and happened the way I saw them. Astral-projections, going to other places on earth and in our galaxy.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best was that I'm truly awakened to MYSELF, who I am, my spirit. That has led to a career I love doing.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I'm presently helping a dying man. It's my second chance to tell someone, but when I mentioned it to my boss, he didn't think it was a good idea. I feel I have to, but am apprehensive. I also I need to tell people who have lost family members, even large groups.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1steven_r_probable_nde.html