{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1storm_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Storm Possible NDE 5326","mylang":"de"}
          	        Storm Possible NDE 5326  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Storm Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2802 Storm Possible NDE 5326  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was 4 years old and had a high fever. I was just lying in my bed staring at the ceiling. It must have been the fever, which brought on an ability to hallucinate cartoons on the ceiling. But suddenly I was not in my bed anymore. I was running through an array of clouds. Being naked, I stayed within the clouds. There was no sound whatsoever. In the distance, I saw what appeared to be a castle made of sand; white, light pink and powder blue sand. There was a drawbridge connected to this castle. I saw Jesus and John the Baptist walking together on the bridge reading from a scroll and deep in conversation with each other (at 4 years old I may have known who Jesus was from a picture in our house, but not John the Baptist). I tried to wave Jesus down while running through the clouds. He did not look up at me at all. He waved his hand in my direction as if to say ‘Not yet, you are not supposed to be here’.

I suddenly opened my eyes and I was back in my bed. My fever had broken and my dad was at my side. I am an artist today and I believe that Jesus sent me back with that gift. When I tell people this story, they tend to say the fever caused my experience and that I had actually just dreamed the whole thing. But I know it was not the fever, nor was it a dream. I know I was in Heaven, even if only for one minute.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1959

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' High fever

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything seemed to be in lighter-toned colors of whites, pinks and blues.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No sounds at all.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus and John the Baptist.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The Castle

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt lost.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I was just a child

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know there is a God and a Heaven.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know there is a God and a Heaven.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew I was in Heaven.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I was able to draw and now I am a very creative writer of children's books.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most people think it was just a child's dream.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was too young to experience this religious vision. I was just a regular kid who would see cartoons on the ceiling prompted by a fever. I was not the kind of child who thought about religious stories or pictures. In this out-of-body experience, I knew who Jesus and John the Baptist were and I was only 4 years old. I came back with a gift and have kept Jesus close to my heart ever since.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I feel like I am always protected. Certain events in my life have happened where I was pulled out of harm’s way.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1storm_possible_nde.html