{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1steven_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Steven C NDE 799","mylang":"de"}
          	        Steven C NDE 799  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Steven C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1272 Steven C NDE 799  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had my brother's fishing net in my right hand and I was trying to catch a dragonfly and I kept reaching over the water and I fell in. I was in a different world looking up at the surface. I had no idea I was in danger and I started breathing in the water; it felt good in my lungs and on the fifth or sixth breath of water, I was dead.

I was in this void of darkness and without hope, and I spoke. I said, 'Where am I?' I could hear the words. A great love came down, saved me, and lifted me up; I was going to perish; I was in deep, deep trouble. All I had to do was except it; in your wildest imagine you cannot believe how good Jesus is. He spoke and said to my ears, 'Do you believe I created the universe?' and I said, 'Yes'.

I was taken above the water and ground and I had the mind of Christ; I was in the family of the Father. His mind guided me to look at my corpse and we watched as my older brother breathed air in the strange dead flesh and it was so weird - I've never forgotten that sight, I can't get it out my thoughts.

I trembled and screamed suddenly realizing I was created by the very words that proceeded out of the mouth of God, and Jesus spoke, he said, 'Go back,'; and on my way God said 'Black people have been wronged.'

I rose from the dead and I could feel millions and millions of eyes watching me. I never heard God again.

I've always found it fun to speak and think to Jesus about the thoughts of others; it seems I'm the only free person on the face of this Earth. It seems so strange people think about the Black Death plague and then watch a person die in a race car. I call it 'Gory Glory'

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1967-1968

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  drowning (cold water) trying to catch a dragonfly reaching over & falling in  Clinical death   Drowning in the cold water.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I had the mind of Christ.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Better than being human.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I thought of time with the mind of Christ.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I can think it but I can't say it.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I stood on air.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     It's possible to communicate with Christ using living water. Speak to Jesus, and ask him to wash you in his blood. For a split second your dying brain barely has a chance.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Death.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I live in a different reality.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   'The mind of Christ'.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Prayer and living water.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I followed God's will.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My stupidity gave people paradise.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Aborted children go to heaven and will meet mom.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Do you feel you can function in this world and raise a family?    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1steven_c_nde.html