{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1steven_d_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Steven D Probable NDE 367","mylang":"de"}
          	        Steven D Probable NDE 367  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Steven D Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1355 Steven D Probable NDE 367  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Three years before my accidental gunshot wound accident, I was being dragged to my death by a runaway horse with my foot caught in the stirrup of the saddle. All of a sudden, my recently deceased uncle (he was killed six months earlier from a one-car roll-over) appeared and stopped the horse, took my foot out of the stirrup, winked and disappeared. For three years (1957-1960) I wanted to know about angels. I asked many church leaders in the community (Tucson) about angels. My father was a religion instructor at the University of Arizona. A Catholic Priest told me to be ready to ask many questions about my own personal life with Jesus. Another pastor told me to test any and all angels by shaking their hand to see if they were a 'spirit' or 'resurrected from the presence of the Lord'.

In June, 1960 my grandpa, Rust, died in Salt Lake City, Utah at the young age of fifty-seven, due to exposure from nuclear testing in Nevada. He lived in Kanab, Utah and owned a hotel and herded cattle and sheep in the mountains. The next month my father had a visitor come from Church headquarters and assigned him a very important position in the Church (political leadership). My mother was upset about the unexpected death of her father and the important political position with her husband. In October, 1960 she was praying to God asking for answers about the death of her brother (thirty-two years, single in 1957), her father (fifty-seven years, prominent) and why her husband was never home (many important political/financial affairs). On October 26th, 1960 she had a very vivid dream about one of her four boys having a head injury and being comforted that it's okay, your son has a mission for the Lord. This experience shook her up and she presumed the accident would happen to my fifteen year old brother who had just been given a motor scooter and she feared he would have an accident in an intersection. 'Hot' Rod would never wear his helmet! My brother was grounded from using his scooter. Nobody knew this was the fear, except mom and dad.

The next night, October 27, 1960 she had an identical dream about the exact same things she had the night before. She was very concerned about my brother and kept him home all day long. On October 28th, 1960 she had the same dream, as the other two nights. This time, the frustrated father took all the family on a picnic to one of his mining claims in the mountains, South of Tucson, Arizona. The year before he had shot a deer from the cab of his pick-up truck. So on the way down and back to his property the four boys were in the back of the truck with their eyes on sighting a deer. My father wanted to shoot another deer. He had been frustrated for three straight days because of the fear from his wife's dreams. His 'glory' for a successful trip was to find and shoot another trophy deer. He had his World War II rifle at his side, loaded, but on double safety. While the truck was approaching, the highway there was a gas station in sight. The kids all started to ask for a 'break' and a 'drink of pop'. My father wasn't happy. My mother used her special way and he finally agreed to stop.

Forgetting his loaded rifle was at his left side, he jammed the door open, thus causing the rifle to fall, and hitting the pavement and accidently discharging the bullet. The bullet missed his shoulder; hit the back of the truck, causing the bullet to split. One piece hit me in the left temple. I don't remember the rest. They tell me that an Arizona Highway Patrolman was at the scene within minutes of the accident. The patrolman realized the critical condition of the child. He radioed ahead. He then violated the Arizona Law, put the lifeless child in the back of his patrol car along with the parents (keeping the father in his custody for potential negligent homicide charges if the child died), and sped off to the closest hospital. There so happen to be a famous head surgeon visiting the St. Mary's Catholic Hospital. (My mother was very calm and knew what to do at the scene. She quickly got my father's handkerchief and put it over the wound. An angelic hand went over hers and the bleeding stopped! My father was hysterical, not knowing what to do during the whole time!

At the hospital, I remember leaving my body on the operating table and going upward. I was greeted by an angel. I wisely extended my hand and asked who his name was. He complimented me and answered, 'I come from the presence of the Lord and my name is Moroni, an ancient prophet.' For three days, while my body lay on the operating table, I had a beautiful experience with an angel of the Lord. I saw many things. I was told why I was in his presence and I had a choice to go home, or come back to my body and serve on a mission for the Lord. I was told I had made a promise before I was ever born to serve the Lord, however He saw fit for me to assist Him. I was told the terrible condition of specific things, which were not approved by the Lord. I was promised that my deceased uncle would be my guardian angel and protect me. I was also told I had my free agency and could go immediately home. I was shown a certain mountain and told this is the Lord's Mountain of Gold. I was called to protect it and I would know what to do with it in the future. Many things I experienced. I remembered it all at the time I awoke. I had been given permission to write a message from the Lord and to use it and live by it while I grew up. I was cautioned and warned to keep my mission between the Lord and me. The Lord called me to serve. The Lord would assist me in completing my mission, if I obeyed Him. I promised to keep quiet, but to document everything for thirty-five years. I was told to work hard for five more years, and then I would have my family together, forever. All these things have come true.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  October 29, 30, 31, 1960

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  The loaded 30-40 Caliber rifle was next to my father while he was driving our family pick-up truck in the mountains South of Tucson, Arizona.  He made an abrupt stop in front of a service station to buy some pop for the five noisy kids.  Forgetting the lo   Accidently shot in the head from a split bullet from a 30-40 Caliber Rifle, which first hit the cab of my father's pick-up truck.  Part of the bullet hit me at the left skull and stopped.  I was rushed to the St. Marys Catholic Hospital by an Arizona High  Gunshot wound to the head.

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My spiritual body was that of an adult, in excellent health-form and order.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       My body life was maintained at a hospital. My level of consciousness and alertness was exceptional during the three days, while I was in a coma.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I felt normal sounds, but only through the 'spirit'. In other words, I could very easily communicate, if I wanted to ask and hear.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     An Angel. I was leaving my physical body on the operating table when I saw the angel approaching me. We communicated through the spirit (like a normal conversation).

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The 'light' surrounded an angel who approached me. Following his introduction, there was always full color and light, everywhere.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was shown the City of the Lord, City of Zion, Cities of Commerce. All very beautiful and earth-like. I was shown technologies and communication methods, traveling like an eagle and very detailed information delivered in such a short period of time.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I saw many things which caused great emotional feelings, both good and sad because of the condition and situation of others.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I was given the knowledge of Lucifer and how much the Lord loves even the Fallen Angel. Lucifer even wanted to honor God, but wanted all the glory, causing a war in Heaven. I was told that I was in the twilight of the same war on this earth and given direction. I was cautioned to always give back to the Lord and many more things would come forth from Heaven. If I kept anything, I would lose it, because that was the reason why Lucifer was cast to this earth to give us equal experiences of good and evil for our own free agency to act upon.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw others on this earth, what they had done, and how they would assist me in my Mission, only if they were obedient to the Lord, also. I was told the Talent Parable of Jesus and that applied to all, including Jesus when He was on this earth (Last Supper, final prayer in the Garden when an angel appeared to Him - THY WILL BE DONE, NOT MINE!)

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I liken this experience about future events in the world to the two stories of the 'Money Changers' being cast out the Temple of the Lord. Pride and money is the God of this earth. Both can work for a person if that person gives back the reverse of tithing to the Lord: ninety percent to the Lord, ten percent to the Individual. Tithing is temporal and biblical and the Letter of the Law. Christ came two thousand years ago to complete the Letter of Law. The Spirit of the Law is now the course and it is the greater giving (terms at opposite figures) that benefits the individual obeying Heaven, even on this earth. The future is unwritten. The future is based on free agency and who will serve the Lord and not Lucifer.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   It was solely my choice to come back to the body and complete my mission for the Lord.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   10 year old child, with a father who was a religion professor at the University of Arizona and a Professional Geologist for the United States Government My mother was a devoted religious person who prayed every day & at every meal & would go to Church every Sunday and during the week

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Expert with all religions.  Was hired by the Egyptian, Isreali and Syrian governments in the early 80s to assist in the translation of ancient records discovered in these countries in the 1940-50s and delivered at UCLA.  Since this date, have traveled and met with religious leaders from all over the world, including tribal chieftains and Lakotas in the Americas.  I attend every type of Church and share my experience and ability to communicate with religious about my knowledge about God and Lucifer.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Faith is not to have a perfect knowledge of things. Before this experience, I had a lot of faith. If you have faith, you hope for things which are not seen, but which are true. I know I have a Heavenly Father, who loves me. I met Him.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   I wrote a story, the second day after I came out of the coma, as a guideline of my personal experience. I turned this story with my fifth grade teacher for her to read about my experience. I got a 'B' - misspelled words!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The worst was leaving my friends in Heaven. The best was being a servant of the Lord, and knowing I can do whatever He sees fit to inflect upon me.to be alive and willing to do my Mission for the Lord. I have always felt my guardian angel with me. That's a great feeling, for forty years!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Not publicly. Only since October 29, 1995 has the scrapbook been opened and the story documented, line upon line. My recovery from an accidental gunshot wound got national attention in 1960. A call from US President Dwight D. Eisenhower. Many people fasted and prayed for me, everywhere in 1960. I have maintained a close relationship with those I knew in 1960.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   My father has given me many opportunities to not be here, anymore. I have been very jealous and I trusted him, many times. My life is protected. I really love my father. I make sure I'm in front of him in many business dealings and representing the family in critical situations. Though he never gave me title to anything. In the fall, 1998 I sued my parents in a Paternity lawsuit. I don't have a birth certificate. I believe I am the birth-son to my deceased uncle who was killed, single at the age of thirty-two in 1957 by an accidental one-car roll-over.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Please go to my websites. They are very new (a few months).

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       They are very thorough. I had fun answering them.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1steven_d_probable_nde.html