{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1steve_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Steve T NDE 3338","mylang":"de"}
          	        Steve T NDE 3338  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  				    				  				  				  					  						  					  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  								Layouts  								  					  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				   				  				  					  						  							  						  								  									  										 Near Death Experience  									  									  										   									  									  										 skype.inthefuture  									  								  						    							  							  								  									  									                                                                              									  									  									  									  									    								  							  						  					  				  				  				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							  							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  			    			      			        			          			          Steve T NDE  			            			            			            Home  			            Classification NDE  			            1234 Steve T NDE 3338  		                		              		            			      			    			    			    	  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was dizzy and sick to my stomach and scared then; suddenly I was in a field overlooking a lake.  I was overwhelmed by the deep green color of the trees and grass. The grass was blowing from a gentle breeze. The grass was long; I would say about ten to twelve inches. I was alone there but felt a spiritual presence watching over me. I had this relaxed feeling that I had completed everything I was to complete in my life. There was nothing else to do. No lists of things, like to-do lists. I had completed my tasks and now could rest. Rest in a way that is hard to explain. Rest with nothing coming up to do. No tomorrow, no next week, time in effect seemed meaningless. There was a rich blue sky and it was quiet except for the sound of the breeze and rustling grass. I felt completely content and happy.  Then I was almost pulled away from this scene and started seeing the ceiling tiles in the emergency room. I had trouble making sense of where I was and felt like I had fainted. The nurses were doing CPR on me and I started hearing them telling me to breathe. Then as I revived, I was in a lot of pain and felt horrible. Just for a split-second before reviving, I was struggling with whether I wanted to come back or not, but I felt it wasn't up to me to decide that. I thought of my wife and what she would do if something were to happen to me when I starting reviving to the point where I knew where I was.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was having chest pain and extremely high blood pressure. I was in the emergency room and was given a dose of nitro to settle my blood pressure down. When the first dose didn't quite do the job I was given a second dose, which proceeded to make me very sick to my stomach and dizzy. I dropped onto the gurney, was clinically dead for about forty-seven seconds, and then revived by CPR administered by emergency room staff. During this time I had no heartbeat, pulse, respiration or breathing.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I saw the lake and felt the breeze.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw the lake and felt the breeze.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was like I could spend any amount of time there I wanted to, as there seemed to be no time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors were really extra ordinary. Plus I could see everything in great detail. (Without glasses on.)

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was on a hill with trees on both sides of me overlooking a lake. The lake was calm.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Completely at rest.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was very fast and I felt that I had completed everything on earth that I was supposed to.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was taught from an early age that when you die you would be in heaven with God. I believe I was there but my concept of heaven was completely different. My experience has showed me that heaven is the peaceful, wonderful place I believe in but it's what is peaceful and fulfilling to me. For me, it wouldn't be a huge city with lots of people, but a quiet serene country side overlooking a lake.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was taught from an early age that when you die you would be in heaven with God. I believe I was there but my concept of heaven was completely different. My experience has showed me that heaven is the peaceful, wonderful place I believe in but it's what is peaceful and fulfilling to me. For me, it wouldn't be a huge city with lots of people, but a quiet serene country side overlooking a lake.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt I completed my life tasks and the weight of those tasks were now gone.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feeling I had.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of peace and completeness.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my wife and a couple friends.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard about it, but my experience was not like any I heard of.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was completely real and I was there. Matter of fact I was there before. When I was a kid I used to have fainting spells, and during one I had been to the same place very briefly.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was very real to me and I can still recall it vividly.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       This was really good.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1steve_t_nde.html