{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1steven_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Steven H NDE 4594","mylang":"de"}
          	        Steven H NDE 4594  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Steven H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2319 Steven H NDE 4594  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember opening my eyes and seeing a lot of smoke and the room was dark. I also saw two silhouettes looking at me. The silhouettes seen by me had no faces, nor limbs. They were about five to seven feet away and about forty-five degrees up. I only saw them from the chest up. Smoke surrounded around them. They were close together. At one point, they turned slightly towards each other.

I felt no fear, no negative emotions after looking at them. I remember thinking, that I must let them know that I was alive. I blinked my eyes. No response from them. I tried to speak to them. I heard no words, but I could feel my mouth move. No response from them.

I had a thought, I know I play guitar, so I'll wiggle my fingers. I wiggled my fingers on my left hand. As I did, I turned my head to look at my fingers. (I was lying on my back.) I looked down and saw myself (body) in the fetal position, lying on my left side. I was about five to six feet above my body. I did not panic, nor did I feel any fear. What I felt was 'the peace that surpasses all human understanding.' It is hard for me to describe.

It was at this point the two silhouettes turned their heads (slightly) and turned towards me. I heard no audible words, but they told me 'Go to sleep. Everything will be alright.' They said this three times. As they did, I thought okay. I turned to my left side and curled up in the fetal position (This is the way I sleep best.) I closed my eyes. I felt myself drop down a little bit. I awoke in the hospital confused and scared.

I would like to add that the two silhouettes I saw were not the emergency medical technicians. I talked to one of them later. He said he went in the apartment, threw me over his shoulder, and laid me in the snow outside than started CPR. This took about thirty seconds.

While I had no concept of time with the silhouettes, I would estimate our conversation to be ten to fifteen minutes.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  march 2004  day unknown

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Smoke inhalation from kitchen fire  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was in a fire in my apartment. There was heavy smoke damage and some fire damage. The emergency room doctor said I had the highest Carbon or smoke inhaled that he had ever seen, where someone survived. He told me I was a miracle. I should be dead. Also one emergency medical technician worker could not find a pulse, but a police officer did.  This was after I was removed from my apartment. I spent three days in the intensive care unit.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the silhouettes were telling me to sleep, the peace was very strong. Everything felt alright to me. I was not ever scared or fearful the whole time. Even when I tried to communicate with them, I did not feel anxious or worried.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I had no concept of time, I did not think about it.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could not see their faces.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not hear a voice, but I could hear inside my head. If this make sense?

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The two silhouettes I mentioned above. I did not know or recognize them. Please see above experience.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme peace and calm. Contentment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Lutheran

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Not at first. I was mad at God because I did not die. Now I am very thankful to God for life on earth. I can have peace and contentment here also.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   same more spiritual.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Not at first. I was mad at God because I did not die. Now I am very thankful to God for life on earth. I can have peace and contentment here also.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The Peace. I remember the peace. And what the silhouettes said to me. 'Go to sleep everything will be alright.' Especially the - everything will be all right - part. It is true in my life today. Everything will be all right. So don't worry; Stay calm. The wiggling of my fingers because I play guitar. I really thought they would respond to that. I think they talked to me because I saw my body. But I wasn't scared.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared this experience with my Pastor. Within three months, I believe. He thinks I had an out of body experience. He wanted to know if I felt scared, fear or worried. I said no - even after the first attempts of letting the silhouettes know I was alive. He wanted to make sure the silhouettes where not an evil presence. I thought they may be guardian angels.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I heard and read stories about them.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I checked it out. I talked to the emergency medical technician that rescued me. That was the only doubt I had. It was not them I saw. The doctor also said I should have been dead.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     After six years I still remember the experience. But not the day it happened. The peace and contentment are not as strong. I am not sure who I saw - guardian angels, past relatives. I know they were not evil.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I was really struggling with the decision to go to school. I mean I anguished over it for weeks. One evening at a former part-time job (I cleaned my church) I walked up to the altar and asked 'God am I supposed to go to school?'  The next morning as I awoke I heard (not audible) 'Go to school' and I felt that Peace that surpasses all human understanding again. I knew that was my answer.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes. I had a Peace that surpasses all human understanding experience. I believe it was 1985. I was very worried and frightened about finding a job since my unemployment ran out. I was very fearful. I sat in my chair and prayed. I reaffirmed my faith in Jesus, and just poured out my fears etc. to God. I even cried. I finished my prayer. With my hands still folded, I looked up and in the corner of the room, I saw a bluish-white human form take shape (about six feet tall) no facial features, Just a human shape. As I saw this appear, I felt so much Peace and Contentment. I didn't worry no more. The feeling was so strong I remember saying WOW. When I unfolded my hands it disappeared.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None. Thank You.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1steven_h_nde.html