{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1steve_w_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Steve W Probable NDE 4418","mylang":"de"}
          	        Steve W Probable NDE 4418  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Steve W Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2208 Steve W Probable NDE 4418  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This experience happened sometime between the time I lost control of my motorcycle and three and half days later when I came out of the coma.

I was in a bright yellow room that had one door and no windows. It reminded me of a hospital from maybe a hundred years ago. I was lying face down the floor and lifted my head up slightly. I could hear something like a snare drum beating 'rap tap tap' - rap tap tap, rap tap tap - it seemed to beat slightly slower as time went on.

I pushed myself up and could see a five-gallon bucket to my right by the closed door. I got up, walked to the door, and looked down into the bucket.

There were two newborn lambs curled in the bucket, they were still wet. I looked at the lambs, I thought they looked healthy but just didn't have the will to live. Their tongues were hanging out of their mouths and as they taking their last breath. I thought to myself that they had given up on life. At that very moment, I was back on the floor face down and I was aware of the presence of an angel looking down behind me. She was floating at an angle just watching.

At that moment all the pain I felt was gone, the weight of the world lifted. It started like floating in a hot tub and quickly beyond anything I have ever felt or imagined. My body began to float up and I was aware of the angel the color of the room and the now empty bucket. This was and remains today the greatest experience of my life. The absence of weight and pain, pain one doesn't even know is there. I can remember thinking this is where I want to be. I continued to float up and everything was good until I started to pass through the ceiling. At that point, I knew this wasn't a dream and the life I knew was soon to be in the past. I reached down into the room and held my hands out toward the floor as to pull myself down. As I started to come back down the pain and weight pressed my body. As I touched the floor I had a change of mind and tried to push up again but came right back down. I thought I had just experienced something most on this earth have never known. I was back on the floor with my head down thinking there was wonderful place without pain or worry waiting. I came out of the coma on the Wednesday after the Sunday accident with my family waiting. I was on full life support and it took two days before I could share this vision in writing with my friends and family.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  6/8/97

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.  motorcycle accident  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' 'Skull fracture, multiple broken bones'  I was thrown from my motorcycle, hit trees, and a telephone pole at eighty-five miles per hour without wearing a helmet. I had a 4-1/2 skull fracture a broken arm, leg, collarbone separated AC joint, in a coma and given fifty percent chance of seeing the next day. In addition a fifty percent chance I would be able to walk and talk due to brain damage.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?   No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As I drifted above the floor. I thought that I was not worthy of such an experience. I felt that I wasn't the judge and should be thankful.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was as though time was being measured by events not the clock.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I dream often but don't pay attention if it is in color. This vision was in bright colors. The absence of weight felt better than I have ever thought.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Crisp and clear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I passed through the ceiling.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     An angel I first described as the Virgin Mary.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   I did not see it but felt its presence.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       In order. Pain, hard to get my breath, fear, calm, knowledge, no weight, no pain, special experience, no fear and realize this is the ultimate goal in life.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I raised sheep on the farm. I feel I have something that most only have faith in.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I think this was a religious experience that cannot be fully understood until higher levels are achieved.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I think this was a religious experience that cannot be fully understood until higher levels are achieved.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Wisdom or better judgment. I watched a TV program on OBE and was listening to different case studies and one man was describing his experience and it was much different from mine but I was overwhelmed with this feeling that he was telling the truth and I am a hundred percent sure he had been there as well. I have never felt this before.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I don't know if people think I'm telling the truth but it doesn't matter.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real but I thought others would think it was the head injury.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1steve_w_probable_nde.html