{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1steve_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Steve S NDE 21151","mylang":"de"}
          	        Steve S NDE 21151  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Steve S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						800  Steve S NDE  21151  					  				  			  					      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I will try to make this short and to the point. I was having a heart attack. The pain was excruciating. There was a number of people working on me and the last thing I remember, a doctor ripped his mask off, climbed on top of me, put his knees on my shoulders, drew back with a syringe two inches across with a needle about six inches long, and stabbed me in the chest.


Then I heard that ringing noise that I've heard every time I've been put asleep.  The pain and fear went away. A bright light was before me. Not a tunnel or beam, just light. I was floating, moving with the light, with time to realize everything that was going on. I was completely coherent. Not drunk, not drugged, totally aware of my surroundings and how nice it was to be weightless. Next, I realized I wasn't gasping for breath it was wonderful. No pain no fear no worries.


I started feeling better and better as an overwhelming feeling of love consumed me. Up ahead I saw a large group of people. They had no faces nor bodies.  They were just gray silhouettes. There was one standing alone just below me to my right with outreached hands; I was about ten feet above them. Some say I had a choice to go or not, if that's so, God cheats. It was irresistible so as I am descending to take the hand of who I think was Jesus, I heard a voice from beyond. It was my Wife, saying ‘you better think about those boys.’ I have two young sons.  All of a sudden, I was snatched away from there like a mail bag being grabbed by a hook on a locomotive. I was slammed back in my body full of pain, fear, and hate. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    June 22, 2001

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Heart attack    Clinical death I don't understand the question.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I did not see my body as I was leaving.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Highest levels of both.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    No sounds at all.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I took the place to be Heaven, just a gathering of people. No buildings or landscapes.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     A very large group off to the left, and one standing alone, front right with open hands. All beings were gray silhouettes with no distinctive features.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The new halogen headlights, the blue ones, are the color. It was very bright, but did not hurt my eyes.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     They were the same as on earth.  I was weightless so my nervous system was the same.  I saw light, the color grey and beings. I did not touch anything so I don't know about touch.  I didn't hear anything so I don't know about hearing, nor did I taste, but everything felt normal.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      The most wonderful feelings. No one here has ever experienced them.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I'm sorry I was in such a state of awe I was too overwhelmed to do anything but wait to see what was next.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I just remembered I did hear something. I heard my Wife say ‘you better think about those boys.’ That's when I was snatched back

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Methodist

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Same

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   Although trying to explain feelings no one has ever felt and lived to tell about is difficult.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       he first thing I noticed was weightlessness, the lack of pain and fear, and how nice it was not to have to breath and just how hard it was to do so before.  Then the overwhelming feeling of love as I approached the multitude.  Of course the worst part was getting snatched and slammed back into this world of pain, fear, and uncertainty.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I've only told my story to those who are dying and the family of those who have and it has been more fulfilling than all the churches I have ever attended.  They were all influenced.  I must say that the preachers I shared this with were not impressed at all.  I thought they would be ecstatic with questions and emotions. They were the only ones who made me feel like I was lying.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   I fell that my experience was not drug induced. I have had a second heart attack and a stroke, with the same drugs with the exception of the adrenalin injection, and have never felt those feelings before or after.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Unless it was the souls that were saved by my testimony through Jesus, I still ask, why me?

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1steve_s_nde.html