{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1steve_t_nde_7172.html","mytitle":"Steve T NDE 7172","mylang":"de"}
          	        Steve T NDE 7172  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Steve T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3636 Steve T NDE 7172  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This was in 1976.  My children were next door when I returned from work.  I knew that the guy who lived next door was a drug addict and was injecting himself with drugs.  When I went to get my children home and confront him about using drugs in front of my children, I was knocked unconscious from a hit on the head with a 2' x 4' hardwood timber board. I was taken to the hospital.  I had died from the blow.

During this time, I was somewhere in the clouds.  I saw my father, who had died some 20 years before, and felt others I knew were all standing around further back behind him. My father walked towards me and said, 'Son it's not your time, you'll have to go back.' I felt so wonderful. Then a voice so powerful and strong, as if echoing in the fog, said, 'He has to go back now.' My father faded away and I sat up in bed. The nursing sister and staff could not believe it, as I had died.  She told me that the medical staff had done everything they could to bring me back, but nothing would work.

Sometime later, I simply sat up and awoke.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Sometime in 1976

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) Diagnosed as having passed away.  Only regarding the incident, but NOT during the experience at all.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was as awake as I have ever been and feeling better than I ever have in my life. There was no way, feeling that good, that I wanted to return. But the choice was out of my hands.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It took a while to first see my own father. I was feeling as good as I did. Having him tell me I had to go back now and he'd be waiting on my return. Then a mighty, but powerful voice saying, 'He must go back NOW'. However, I had died in the hospital; dead for maybe (they said) five minutes and upon returning, I was fully awake.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was more aware of all than I have ever been.  I only remember my father's face. Others were there but further back.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was fine. I could hear mumbling further back but my father's voice was as clear as clear. However, the voice that told me I must go back was deeper than anything I have ever heard, and it seemed to echo.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There were so many that stood a ways back. I heard their voices.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was no floor even though I felt like I was standing on solid ground. It was all fog.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was all cloud: completely, as in thick fog or steam.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       TOTAL JOY of seeing my father and feeling as good as I did then.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     All I knew, is I felt so grand I no longer wanted to return OR be anywhere else. I was only aware of my own father's face.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I have no earthly religious beliefs. I feel they all have a different link to the same chain. I know something powerful exists but not what it is. I feel they don't either, BUT it's not my place to say so to anyone: EVER.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   After my experience I decided not to follow any religious groups but remain simply the captain of my own soul ..

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I have told all I am and was aware of .. At that time .

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     In 1988, I was in bed with my then wife. My mum came back 9 years after she died, stood at my bed early in the morning. My ex-wife saw her. She said my name and vanished. I rang my sister, told her, she said, 'Happy birthday.'  I said it wasn't my birthday.   She replied, 'YES, IT IS 2 JUNE. Oh my God when did you see MUM?' I said, '2 25 AM just a while ago.'    'O-O-O-O-O-H', she said, 'Today is Tuesday!! You were born 2:25 A M, 2 June 1942.'

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I spoke to and saw the face of my very own father.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Yes I felt most of my relations and those I knew were aways back as I felt I recognized voices .. I only saw and spoke to my very own father in this life .

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     My own father told me it was not my time and that I had to go back .. That he would be waiting when I finally arrived .. I only heard other voices I felt I knew and the voice that tols HE HAS TO GO BACK NOW I have never heard such power in a voice but wit

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     YES .. I returned as if knowing nothing is as religion here and now teaches  .. There is as if a oneness that no way on earth we could understand .. I am reluctant to talk of it here for I am unqualified to do so not understanding it myself .

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I only was aware of my own father .. I saw his face .. I was aware of some I recognised their voices but could not see them .. And the powerfup voice I have a feeling WAS NOT GOD but somebody else ..

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was feeling so good I cannot describe it.  I so wanted to stay but was told it was not my time.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I now know all I have loved and lost are waiting .. as if time means nothing to them as we know time .

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I saw my fathers face // He told me not my time and that he'd be waiting when I returned // I heard voices far behind him I knew but could not see them .. I heard that most powerful voice say .. HE HAS TO GO BACK NOW ..

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I know where ever I was I was not supposed to be there yet and was told I must return right away .

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     All so perfectly organised as if beyond any knowing here and now .

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     ONENESS ..

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. I do NOT follow any religions at all for I now believe they are for here and now. I believe a great power exists but I know I do not KNOW what or how powerful it is. I did know that there is life after here and now and that ALL go the same way as all else. All of which I have no wanting to talk to, or explain to any others at all.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Uncertain Not exactly.  I just wrote a book looking for publisher re: the same about my searching for real true love, happiness and peace of mind. I just found it 4 years ago.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I know now that what we see as if GOD is so far above our comprehension re WHO or WHAT the GOD most think they know actually is ..

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Only the fact, my mother was as clairvoyant as anything. I am her son. I was born aware of things regarding her. But she was slightly negative regarding that ability: as subtle as a steel trap. I was always positive regarding what I got from her.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Only that my own father is waiting on another plane. As are many, who I once knew or knew myself, but I only saw my father's face.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    Only a few very close to me. Over time, I shared, but not in so much detail.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   Never had a clue like this.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I still know it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   My mother came to the foot of my bed in 1988. This NDE happened in 1976.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Only that I KNOW WHAT'S AFTER THIS and my heart mind and soul are at peace, thanks to that. Also, now being married to the love of my entire life has me where I always wanted to be.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1steve_t_nde_7172.html