{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1steve_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Steve J NDE 20288","mylang":"de"}
          	        Steve J NDE 20288  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Steve J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						333  Steve J NDE  20288  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I remember being taken to the hospital and wondering why. At the time, it seemed like I was sleeping because I was on top of the ceiling looking down at myself. Mind you, I was only three years old and all this was really cool. My mother who had died only a short time before this was explaining to me what was going on and had told me that I was going to be just fine. She said this had to be done so she could properly explain to me what had happened to her.


We then left the hospital and ended up in my old neighborhood and all I could remember was this was cool because I was flying like 'superman'. Nevertheless, my uncle who was really distraught over the recent events, was threatening to jump out of our three story building in Chicago. My mom was trying to talk some sense into him but he couldn't hear. But, I think he heard, for he did not jump.


  					  She then explained to me that I would not see her for a while, but that she would always be with me. To take care of my older sister and my grandmother and to always be respectful to women in general. This was all happening on the second floor of our building. She then gave me a big hug, kiss and the brightest light I have ever seen (without squinting not one bit) appeared, she walked to it, and before she disappeared she said, 'I love you and be a good boy.'


Next thing I know I was back in my hospital room starting to come out of it and people were arguing about nonsense. I spoke and the room went quiet. I said I was hungry and thirsty. I also wanted to go outside and play as soon as possible. I was interview by numerous doctors because of my experience and recovery. Not to mention I was feisty and hardheaded. I believe my mother deliberately induced the pneumonia so see could communicate with me. I will cherish that experience for the rest of my life. As soon as my kids are old enough they will be told about their grandmother and what a wonderful women she is and that she is watching over them every day. Thank you.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    spring of 73'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening They did not know if I was going to recover.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      High.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Jump from one place to another. Really fast.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I don't think so.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Just the comforting light.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Sort of heightened.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Happy and confused.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I know we are being taken care of.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   I could remember no one believing me except for my grandmother on my mom's side. Probably because she wanted to believe I really did communicate with my mom after her death.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Seeing my mother was the best!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Disbelief.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      When my spirit departs my body I know I will be in good hands.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1steve_j_nde.html