{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1stephen_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Stephen P NDE 4240","mylang":"de"}
          	        Stephen P NDE 4240  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Stephen P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2073 Stephen P NDE 4240  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I woke up this day feeling a bit tired but nothing unusual. After my usual morning routine, I took a walk to the store for a friend. The weather was very hot that day and I was getting very weary. On the way back, I felt very weak and felt like I was going to pass out. After making it home, (barely), I gave my friend her item and said to her 'I think we might have to call 911 today.' I felt so weak that I decided to just go lay down on my bed. This is when it all started!

After lying down for a bit, I started to feel really strange - my body felt like it was sort of preparing for something. My limbs started to stretch and settled back in a certain position, my whole body followed suit. Then I felt myself just drift away and leave my body. I remember that it was a most pleasant feeling. I then felt enveloped in a warm loving peaceful light. At this time I was told that it was not time for me yet, and I felt like I was kind of 'slammed' back into my physical body. After all of that I had a very bad seizure and paramedics came and were trying to bring me around, I can still remember what they were saying and doing although I was not 'awake'. I finally came around when I was in the hospital later that night. Now, as time goes by a sort of veiling process happens and things become vague. But this I will never forget! It was very, very real!!! I now have No fear of death at all. And I know that our 'spirit' does go on!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'March,2006'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    'Very tired and weary, with an ominous feeling.'  Other 'NDE, followed by Seizure.'  This was followed by a seizure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I left my host body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I left my host body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was an area of warm light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total Peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Raised Catholic. Spiritual.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Very spiritual.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Death is not to feared, it is a process to another existence.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   At first it was hard to convey due to medical circumstance (unable to speak for a while); then bewilderment and confusion, after that I did not think people would understand or believe this experience, and it was difficult to describe so that others would understand, while still trying to understand it myself!

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Understanding everything better. A different perspective on death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It is still a process of understanding it all.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is just a knowing feeling.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1stephen_p_nde.html