{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1steve_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Steve D NDE 9722","mylang":"de"}
          	        Steve D NDE 9722  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Steve D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5248 Steve D NDE 9722  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    We had arrived in Key West with our two best friends for our annual trip to south Florida. This trip included visiting Fort Lauderdale for about eight or nine days, with four days in Key West. We always had a blast. We drove from their condominium (condo); I think it was a Wednesday because we had big plans to watch the NCAA Men's tournament games Thursday and Friday. We arrived at the condo and the husband friend and I went to take a dip while our wives had a cocktail in the condo. We were going to go out that night. We came back to the condo, rinsed off and got dressed for the night. I was having a beer, he was having a cocktail. Our wives were coming in off the porch. 

  I remember turning to leave and feeling a very faint sense of falling face-first to the floor.  The next thing I know, I was outside my body. I didn't feel myself leave; I was just floating outside the condo watching the action. I was floating about two stories high, near the steps downstairs. 

  In retrospect, I don't think I died until the EMTs left the condo because my friends wife started CPR right away.  I now know that I was in between death and life. At that time in my life, I was big; weightlifting and exercising. I was in very good shape, six foot two inches and about 265 lbs at that time. I worked out twice a day many days. I say this not to brag but to illustrate two points: I was in great shape and was only a big slab of humanity. 
  
  I mention size because as I watched the EMTs negotiate the narrow stairs but just as small turns at the bottom of each six or so steps. I remember laughing and thinking, 'There's no way they're getting THAT guy to the ambulance!' 

  Suddenly, I became aware that I was floating and saw a large crowd watching the action. I actually remember specific faces. The last face I focused on was that of a dark-haired kid,  who seemed to make eye contact with me. Then, in a flash, I shot off at indescribable speed. The light around me resembled the movie 'Star Wars' when a spaceship went to light speed. I saw kaleidoscopic colors so bright and dynamic that I really cannot describe them. Although, I can visualize them as they appeared during my trip. 
  
  There is no sense, idea, understanding, or existence of time there. Eternity is a second;   a second eternity. I rocketed off and then seemed to slow down. I was facing a wondrous, glowing ball of light. I don't possess the vocabulary to describe the light. At this time, I felt the presence of someone else behind  me who communicated that everything was cool. I also figured everything was cool because I was completely at ease. I felt that I was aware beyond belief. There are more than three dimensions and I experienced some of that. It was just jaw dropping, brilliant, goose-bump stuff. 

  At some point my entire life flashed before me. It was not in snippets of my life but somehow my entire life all at once. Some of what I saw and remembered made me feel euphoria, laughter and other times  sadness, but again it occurred all at once. At some point, it was communicated to me that 'love is all that matters.' This meant love for all fellow humans, love and respect for the earth, for the birds, animals, and even insects. All things are from our Creator and we are all, everything connected at every level. 

  I was given a lot of information that just stuns me to this day.  Time is not linear and I can't really explain this thing I learned. All time is now, then, next, or whatever. But I've had to explain it in sort of linear fashion because I guess that's how I understand it. After some knowledge lessons I learned beyond love, connectedness, and our eternal existence, I had to go. Again, in some way I was told it was time to go. 

  My next memory is waking up in Key West Regional Hospital. My first memory is that the staff had ruined my beard. I was told that tThey'd shaved the mustache so the oxygen mask would fit correctly.  I remember nothing other than being there, then I was in a chair with some brain damage but my personality was intact.
  
  Slowly over the next few days, I became more lucid but was still not very aware mentally. I actually complained that I didn't get to experience the near death experience. Eventually, I was sent to a hospital in Miami, then to our friends' Fort Lauderdale home, then on a plane home. I don't remember the whole timeline but I think it was three weeks. Since then, I suffer from PTSD from the event and am very troubled by my vivid  dreams. I also have deep compassion and deep love. I remember good stuff and bad stuff. Yet, what I learned is priceless. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 March 13, 2008  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack.  CPR given.     Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I suffered the widow maker heart attack and was dead when I hit the floor, as I was told later.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Read above. I have verified it all.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I was aware of EVERYTHING HAPPENING AROUND ME. Everything. Sight, sound, smell, every emotion, front back, above, below. The breath ofrom the people watching.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Right when I jetted off from this plane, earth.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time that I understood.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I felt what I saw. Colors radiated feelings.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hahaha! Unreal. There was a melody, for lack of a better word. I heard beyond anything I can describe. Plus, I heard 100% better when I came back. Still do.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus, et al  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Beautiful light. Frankly, I believe it was the radiant presence and glory of the Creator, Almighty God.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Dark, with light. Love, melodic, brilliance.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, gratitude, shame, pride. Love, above all total, inconceivable love and peace.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Cannot tell you. I just don't have the words in some cases and don't want to influence in others. Our beliefs here are important. I DO NOT KNOW Everything about the universe but I was told many things and was gifted with big knowledge.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     My while life was shown to me.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will  Read my story.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Deep spiritual belief in God, Jesus, Mohammed, etc. Belief in an ongoing life for eternity.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   My beliefs are much deeper. I am much more understanding of those with dramatically different spiritual points of view. I believe if your belief system somehow sustains you, it's great. I know now that The Creator doesn't really care HOW we acknowledge him, just that we DO. Very, very different viewpoints since my NDE.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I experienced Islamic beliefs and have no Muslim knowledge. Muslim friends but zero knowledge.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Deeper levels of belief.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Did not see anyone but physically sensed their presence and "heard" their words.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I became aware on an astonishingly deep level. Special knowledge for those who have been told. I am not the only one by millions.  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     We live thousands of lives for a multitude of reasons. It is really wild.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     It exists. Everything Almighty God has created is connected at the atomic level.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Read my story.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I cannot describe but I know so many things now it freaks me out.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     Specific information.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I cannot really share much other than to focus on love. Off topic. Sorry.  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     We have to live with challenges, pain, hardships, etc. It is necessary.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is everything. Love of self, all, everything. Respect for every being and entity. We are all connected.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     My life, life view, love of all. Man, I have changed. Still flawed. Big fucking time! Haha! Just aware and grateful to be here with the love and knowledge I have been gifted with. Thank you so much for providing this forum to share. While I didn't' make it into Heaven, my experience has changed my life. Bless you all.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Deeper, better, more loving.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I don't have the words to describe what I saw and felt emotionally.  

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  It is the most vivid memory of my life. Plus, it puts so much of my life while growing up  into context.  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Some ability to predict the future.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Many parts. But my desire to cross over to Heaven was especially meaningful. I was not allowed to go over, I had to come back. As much as I love and am grateful for my life, I really wanted to stay.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Sort of.  

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real.     Was still recovering from a coma.  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     It continues to this day.  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       All good.  God bless you all. Peace and love!         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1steve_d_nde.html