{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1steve_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Steve F NDE 2954","mylang":"de"}
          	        Steve F NDE 2954  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Steve F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1042  Steve F NDE  2954  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  On 12/12/2006 a school bus ran a red light and t-boned my 2005 Chevy Avalanche. I was conscious during the accident (everything went into slow motion) and was coherent enough to talk to OnStar and describe the location of the accident as well as the extent of my injuries (a cut above my left eye, whiplash, 3 broken ribs, contusions on my lungs, and a torn rotator cuff). I was sitting very still I didn't want to move for fear of being paralyzed. I was sitting in the truck, with my left eye closed (because of the blood and because I was covered in glass) while they used the Jaws of Life to pry the door open. Suddenly I'm STANDING, and can see out of BOTH eyes, where one of the houses should have been. All around me (above, below, 360 degrees) were dark grey rolling clouds (the best way I can describe it) and behind me (over my left shoulder) there appeared to be a large rectangular screen and I could see a person in the driver seat covered with blood and paramedics working on him. I thought 'Wow that guy's really messed up!' Then I realized it was my truck and the person was me.

While this was happening, I felt confused; how could I be standing where the house should be? Why am I standing when I was sitting in the truck? How could I see myself being worked on? Then I turned to my right (facing forward) and I saw the grim reaper, the dark robe, the sickle, no face but where the face should be was just blackness, blacker than anything I'd ever seen before in my life. It was as if you could take the brightest light you could find (the sun, or even a thousand suns and shined it in there and it would just swallow it up). Then I heard a voice in my head say either (come with me, or come to me).  As I stared into the blackness I started to go. As I was going the scene behind me (the truck and paramedics) was fading away at the same time all my senses were fading, the pain was fading. I then realized it was death wanting to take me and I thought of my fourteen year old son and my wife. Then I told the reaper 'F**K YOU I'M NOT GOING ANYWHERE!' Then I was back sitting in the truck and one of the paramedics was saying,' Come on stay with me.' After that they extracted me and took me to the hospital.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 12/12/2006  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   School bus/SUV accident.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Initial confusion, and then as I started to go my senses were decreasing (like turning down a rheostat).  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Initial confusion, and then as I started to go my senses were decreasing (like turning down a rheostat).  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear the paramedics talking, but it sounded like they were behind me.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The grim reaper.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Closer to my family.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Next day.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Read about it.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       This was REAL.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1steve_f_nde.html